DRN-2922773
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the handling of a claim under his gadget insurance policy with
Astrenska Insurance Limited
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in June 2021, the main part of which is copied 
below: 
In May 2020, Mr Js tablet computer (a first generation pro model with 12.5inch screen,
256gb and cellular data), case, screen protector and pen were stolen. The device was
purchased in November 2018.
Astrenska accepted the claim but Mr J is not happy with the settlement offered. Astrenska
[said a refurbished model of Mr Js phone was advertised for sale on the manufacturers 
website for £719 but it was out of stock, so it could not provide him with an exact 
replacement. Instead it] offered the following:
- a non pro device with a 10.5 screen and 64gb memory;
- a refurbished device, with a 10.5 screen and 512gb memory  for £50 extra;
- a refurbished next generation device with 12.9 screen, 256gb memory and cellular
  data  for £220 extra;
- a different make device with a 12.3 screen, for £40 contribution; or
- any other replacement of his choice up to a value of £719, which it would purchase
  for him. Astrenska later said it would offer this as a cash settlement in lieu of it
  replacing the device for Mr J.
Mr J was not happy with any of these proposals. He also wanted to claim for the accessories
that were stolen. Mr J said he could not replace his device for the money suggested by
Astrenska. Mr J said he had searched for the same make and model as his original device
but was unable to find one for the amount offered, so he has had to purchase a refurbished
device (third generation with a 12.9 screen, 128gb memory and cellular data) for £1,077.
Mr J also bought a new leather cover (£22.99), a screen protector (£9.99) and pencil (£119).
Mr J wants these costs to be reimbursed and compensation for the huge amount of time he
has spent on this matter. Mr J also asked for confirmation that the insurance will continue to
cover the replacement device, if not he wants the premium hes paid since his device was
stolen to be reimbursed.
Astrenska has said Mr Js policy expired in December 2020, so there is no cover to be
provided for his new device. It has also said:
the policy covers accessories, defined as chargers, carrying cases, headphones and
hands-free mounting kits, and USB cables that were supplied with your gadget but
excluding a SIM Card. As the accessories Mr J claimed for were not provided with
his device, they are not covered.
The value given for Mr Js device was based on the advertised purchase price on the
manufacturers website at the time but as it was out of stock at the time, it offered
alternatives.
Whilst it is prepared to offer a cash settlement, as per normal insurance practice this
would be based on what it would cost it to replace the device and the device is now
advertised for £479. It made a reasonable offer to Mr J and it should not be penalised
for the market depreciation working against Mr J, as he could have accepted that
offer at the time.
It has offered to fulfil the claim in accordance with the policy terms.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be
upheld, as he was satisfied that Astrenska had made reasonable proposals of settlement of
the claim, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr J does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy is one of indemnity, so Mr J essentially needs to be put back, as far as is
possible, into the position he was in before the theft. So Astrenska is obliged to replace the
stolen device or provide sufficient cash for Mr J to do so, on a like-for-like basis (rather than
a new for old basis). The policy sets out how Astrenska will do that:
This policy offers replacement only and is not a replacement as new policy. If the
gadget cannot be replaced with an identical gadget of the same age and condition,
we will replace it with one of comparable specification or the equivalent value, taking
into account the age and condition of the original gadget
Your claims administrator will endeavour to replace your gadget with an identical, fully
refurbished (or new where a refurbished item is not available) gadget of the same age and
condition as your gadget. However, in the unlikely event this is not possible, your claims
administrator will provide you with a fully refurbished (or new where a refurbished item is not
available) gadget of a comparable specification or the equivalent value taking into
consideration the age and condition of your gadget prior to your claim.
So the policy allows replacement with a refurbished device, rather than a brand new one, or
the market value of the phone.
Astrenska says it did offer the market value of the device and it is not its fault the phone was
out of stock. The investigator also said Astrenska cant be held responsible for problems with
suppliers, but its obligation is to indemnify Mr J, so it is responsible if it cant do that by
providing an adequate and reasonable replacement. So while a refurbished model of the
same device was at one time for sale for £719, that does not mean that by offering a cash
settlement of £719 Astrenska has met its obligations under the policy.
It is not possible for it to provide a replacement of the same make and model, so in line with
the principle of indemnity and the policy terms, it is obliged to offer one of comparable
specification. It has to be a reasonable equivalent.
The only device offered that was the same/comparable specification (i.e. screen size and
memory) was the refurbished next generation device with 12.9 screen, 256gb memory and
cellular data. But Astrenska said Mr J would have to pay £220 towards this (in addition to the
policy excess). I do not think that was reasonable. It should have provided him with thismodel, without him being asked to pay a supplement. This would have been in line with the
policy terms.
The other devices offered to Mr J were not reasonable comparables, as the operating
system, memory and/or screen sizes  all of which are important considerations when
choosing a device like this  were significantly different. (I also note, Astrenska didnt offer
any additional cash settlement to Mr J, when it offered the first option replacement which
was of a lower specification than his insured device.) I do not think these were reasonable
alternatives and I understand why Mr J refused these.
Astrenska then offered a cash settlement of £719 based on an advert for the same make
and model phone it found on the manufacturers website. Astrenska also says it is entitled to
now reduce the cash settlement to £479, which is the current cost of that device. In support
of this it says the overarching principle of insurance to consider is the principle that any
claim should not be settled for more than it would cost the insurer to obtain the replacement
device. I do not agree with this.
The overarching principle of insurance that applies to this claim, is the principle of indemnity.
Indemnifying Mr J for his loss means that any cash settlement should be assessed based on
the fair market value of his device at the time of the loss. So Astrenskas obligation is to
indemnify Mr J for the value of the device (or the cost of purchasing a replacement device)
as at the time of the loss. As such it would not be entitled to adjust that to todays prices.
However, even at the time the offer of £719 was made, it was not fully indemnifying Mr J, as
the device was not available for that amount. The device was out of stock and so was not
available on that website or anywhere else (according to Mr J) for that amount. Therefore
that cash settlement was not reasonable, as again it was not indemnifying Mr J for his loss 
he was unable to replace the device (or buy a reasonable alternative) for this amount.
As Astrenska did not offer a reasonable settlement, Mr J purchased a refurbished device
himself for £1,077. It has a similar screen size, less memory but is a newer generation
model. This however seems to me to be a suitable comparable device to his insured one.
And given the failure by Astrenska to make a reasonable offer, I do not think it was
unreasonable for him to purchase this. It is therefore my opinion that Astrenska should
reimburse Mr J the cost of this device, together with interest at our usual rate.
With regard to the accessories, I agree that these are not covered. I can understand Mr Js
concern about this, as he was led to believe that these would be covered. However, an
insurer is not bound by any mistake made by its representatives in implying these would be
covered.
Mr J also asked about the ongoing cover for the replacement device. The policy provides
continuous cover for any replacement gadget provided by Asternska, so I agree that it would
have been reasonable for it to cover any replacement he bought. However, the policy has
now apparently come to an end. Mr Js policy was an annual one and so Astresnka is
entitled to keep the premium for the full years cover.
Finally, I consider that an additional sum of £75 should be paid to Mr J as compensation for
the trouble caused to him by the handling of this claim. He was without his device for longer
than necessary and had to source and buy a replacement himself, as a result of Astrenskas
unreasonable stance.My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Astrenska Insurance Limited and require it to do the
following:
1. reimburse Mr J the sum of £1,077, together with interest at 8% simple per annum
from the date he bought the device to the date of reimbursement; and
2. Pay £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of
his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr J has responded and confirmed he accepts my provisional decision. He says he also took 
out another insurance policy for his new device, which meant duplicated costs. 
Astrenska has also responded and does not accept my provisional decision. It has made a 
number of further points, which Ive summarised below: 
  
If the device cannot be replaced with an identical one of the same age and condition, 
it will replace it with one of comparable specification or the equivalent value, taking 
into account the age and condition of the original gadget. It is not therefore true that 
the policy allows replacement with a refurbished device, rather than a brand new 
one, or the market value of the phone.
It will normally provide a replacement device of the same make and model and the 
cost of this to it as the insurer establishes the equivalent value that might be offered 
to buy a new phone, or in this case as a cash settlement. 
If the same make and model is not available, it might offer alternatives, which may 
also require contribution from the policyholder if the cost to it exceeds the equivalent 
value.
Customers do not have access to the full open market. The policy terms require that 
any insured device is purchased direct from the manufacturer or network service 
provider. Any replacement provided will be similarly sourced, so underwriters can be 
assured of the quality and minimise the potential insurance risk. So it is by no means 
certain it would have agreed to the purchase that Mr J made, in the event it has been 
sourced outside the accepted supply chain. 
The market value of a device is simply a matter of what someone is prepared to pay 
and can vary widely. It is not unusual for devices which are no longer available to 
have inflated price tags and it cannot reasonably be expected to pay significantly 
over the odds for any replacement.
Notwithstanding the availability, it cannot be disputed the equivalent value it provided 
- direct from the manufacturer for the exact make and model of Mr Js stolen device -
is a true and accurate reflection of what his device was worth at the time of his claim.
It is therefore the case that in fulfilment of any claim, we will look to provide the 
customer with an identical gadget of the same age and condition, or one of 
comparable specification, or one of the equivalent value - taking into account the age 
and condition of the original device. Where it is unable to source an identical gadget, 
it is the equivalent value that sets the parameter for any alternative, whether of 
comparable specification, or not. On this basis, the alternatives offered, fully met the requirements of Mr Js policy terms and conditions.
All of the above highlights the fact that a cash settlement is not an option provided for 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. Where it chooses to make such an 
offer, it is done outside the policy terms, as a gesture of goodwill. The cash 
settlement, in line with the value of Mr Js device was fair and reasonable.
Mr J has chosen to replace his stolen device with another, which is not identical to 
that which was on cover and whilst it may have a comparable specification, the cost 
far exceeds the equivalent value. The comparable specification and equivalent value 
are not mutually exclusive and it cannot be right that an insurer is required to put Mr J 
in a better position than that prior to his claim. For example, had the only available 
alternative of a comparable specification been a gold-plated device costing £10,000, 
it assumes it would not be expected to pay for this.
It has acted fairly and not only complied fully with the policy terms but gone beyond 
this in order to settle his claim. However, should I choose to uphold this complaint 
and notwithstanding the value of Mr Js device has decreased since our original cash 
settlement offer, he was at liberty to accept the payment offered, so any interest 
should be awarded only on the difference between the amount it offered and the 
amount Mr J paid for his replacement device. 
Similarly, the payment of £75 compensation is disproportionate, especially in the 
context of an insurance contract costing £90 per annum. In such cases where a 
payment of this type is merited, it might ordinarily offer a sum of £20 which better 
reflects the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will set out again the terms of the policy Astrenska is relying on: 
This policy offers replacement only and is not a replacement as new policy. If the
gadget cannot be replaced with an identical gadget of the same age and condition,
we will replace it with one of comparable specification or the equivalent value, taking
into account the age and condition of the original gadget.
Astrenska says this means it does not have to provide a cash settlement (if it cannot provide 
a reasonable replacement device) but instead the term equivalent value means it will 
provide a device (which might not be comparable in any other way) that is of equivalent 
value of the cost to it of providing the exact replacement; it would have cost it £719 to 
replace Mr Js phone, so its obligation is limited to providing a phone that would cost it £719. 
Alternatively, as a gesture of goodwill beyond its contractual obligations it has offered him 
this as a case settlement. 
I do not agree that the above term is as clear as Astrenska says. The term equivalent value 
is not defined in the policy and I do not agree it means Astrenska is only obliged to pay what 
it might have cost it to provide a comparable device. I think it is reasonably taken to mean it 
will provide the policyholder with the same make and model as the original insured phone, a 
reasonable comparable alternative phone, or a cash payment of the equivalent value of the 
insured (or nearest reasonable comparable) phone; and the equivalent value of the device, 
would reasonably be how much the policyholder could actually purchase it for. Anything else 
would not be providing proper indemnity for his loss. 
However, even if I accepted Astrenskas definition, the equivalent value, would have to be 
based on what it could actually get the replacement phone for. Astrenska says it is indisputable that the equivalent value in this case is £719, as there was an advert for Mr Js 
phone for this amount. There was an advert for the phone at that price but it was out of 
stock, so it is not proof of the value of the phone at that point in time, as it was not available.
Given this, Astrenska was therefore obliged to look at reasonable comparable phones as 
alternatives. A reasonable comparable device was available (i.e. the refurbished next 
generation device with 12.9 screen, 256gb memory and cellular data) but Astrenska asked 
Mr J to pay £220 towards this. I remain of the opinion, this was not reasonable. It should 
have offered him that phone with no contribution from Mr J. 
Astrenska says this was effectively an upgrade and it shouldnt be expected to pay over the 
odds for a replacement with limited supply; and it gave an extreme example. It is obliged to 
indemnify Mr J with as close a replacement as possible and that would include not only in 
terms of technical specification but also any other significant factors. So no reasonable 
person would expect a gold-plated phone as a replacement for a standard phone. Astrenska 
didnt offer a reasonable replacement in my opinion; and didnt offer Mr J enough for him to 
replace the device, or buy a reasonable alternative. 
As Astrenska did not offer a reasonable settlement, Mr J purchased a refurbished device
himself for £1,077. It has a similar screen size, less memory but is a newer generation
model. This however seems to me to be a suitable comparable device to his insured one.
And given the failure by Astrenska to make a reasonable offer, I do not think it was
unreasonable for him to purchase this. 
In my opinion, it therefore doesnt matter that the policy will only insure a phone purchased 
from the manufacturer or network service provider. If Astrenska had been able to provide a 
suitable replacement, then I agree it is entitled to do so from these sources but it didnt. 
Given the failure by Astrenska to make a reasonable offer, I do not think it was unreasonable 
for Mr J to purchase this phone. In any event, it appears it was from an authorised supplier 
and so, as stated in my provisional decision, it would also have been reasonable for it to 
continue cover. I can understand why Mr J chose to get cover elsewhere but he didnt have 
to.
It therefore remains my opinion that Astrenska should reimburse Mr J the cost of this device. 
I also remain of the opinion that interest should be paid at our usual rate, from the time he 
bought the new device. Astrenska says this is unfair, as Mr J could have accepted the £719 
offered in July 2020, pending resolution of this complaint. However, I have not seen anything 
in which it was made clear to him that this might not prejudice his complaint. There are notes 
of a telephone call in which the cash was offered and it records that Mr J said he didnt want 
to settle the claim on that basis and would wait for the outcome of his complaint with us. 
Theres no record that Astrenska made clear this would effectively be an interim payment 
and he could continue with his complaint. And it appears the next time a cash settlement 
was discussed, it said it would only pay £479, so I can understand Mr Js reluctance to 
accept a payment until the matter was finally resolved.
I also remain of the opinion that an additional sum of £75 should be paid to Mr J as 
compensation for the trouble caused to him by the handling of this claim. He was without his 
device for longer than necessary and had to source and buy a replacement himself, as a 
result of Astrenskas unreasonable stance. The cost of the policy is irrelevant in assessing 
the appropriate amount of compensation which should be commensurate with the trouble 
caused. And the amount I have determined is in line with our awards in such cases. My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Astrenska Insurance Limited and require it to do the
following:
1. reimburse Mr J the sum of £1,077, together with interest at 8% simple per annum
from the date he bought the device to the date of reimbursement; and
2. pay Mr J £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman