DRN-4399301
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has unfairly charged him 
overdraft fees which are unaffordable.
What happened
Mr W says Virgin Money has made unfair overdraft charges which are unaffordable, and 
which have caused difficulties. He would like the charges refunded and interest paid on that 
refund. Mr W says his personal circumstances have not been considered by Virgin Money.
Virgin Money says the charges were correctly applied in line with the account terms and 
conditions.
Mr W brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the overdraft charges were correctly applied in line with account terms 
and conditions and that there wasnt any evidence of financial difficulties Virgin Money ought 
to have noticed or considered.
Mr W doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision.
I make clear to Mr W that I cant consider the amount of the overdraft fees charged and that 
its up to a business when exercising its commercial judgement to make such decisions.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ws account terms and conditions which I am satisfied he would 
have agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear 
that Virgin Money will make a charge if there isnt enough money in an account to pay for 
example a direct debit. Having looked at Mr Ws account statements and the letters Virgin 
Money sent him, I am satisfied that on occasions there wasnt enough money in Mr Ws 
account to make payments. So, I dont think Virgin Money made a mistake or acted unfairly 
by applying the charge it said it would in the terms and conditions in those circumstances.
I appreciate Mr W says that is unfair, but I have made clear that he agreed to that charge. 
And that it would be irresponsible of Virgin Money to allow an overdraft to build up which is 
the alternative to stopping a payment, which may have caused Mr W greater financial 
difficulties.
I appreciate Mr W says Virgin Money should have noticed his position. But I cant see that 
the account statements or Mr Ws management of his account could have reasonably led 
Virgin Money to conclude Mr W was in financial difficulties due to the limited number of 
charges applied and payments refused.
Overall, I dont think Virgin Money acted unfairly or made a mistake by applying the charges 
and so I cant fairly order it to refund them as Mr W would like. I have read about Mr Ws 
personal circumstances but I cant see that Virgin Money could have acted differently here or 
that the charges could have been avoided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman