DRN-4130844
The complaint
Mr T complains that hes unable to receive a Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco 
Bank One Time Access Code (OTAC) via his landline telephone number.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr T has a credit card with Tesco. Mr T has his landline telephone number registered with 
Tesco to receive OTACs in order to access his account online.
Last summer, Mr T contacted Tesco as he was experiencing problems when trying to access 
his account online. Mr T says that when he instructs the online system to send an OTAC to 
his landline the phone doesnt ring. But Mr Ts explained that immediately after he requests 
an OTAC his landline shows as being in use without ringing. And when Mr T picks up the 
phone hes told us he only hears a beep, theres no OTAC provided.
Tesco looked into Mr Ts complaint and issued a final response. Tesco said it hadnt found 
any problems with Mr Ts phone line and also advised it had withdrawn the OTAC service for 
landlines.
Mr T referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Within its file 
submission Tesco advised it had incorrectly told Mr T it was unable to send OTACs to a 
landline. Tesco confirmed that information was wrong and that the service remained active. 
Tesco offered Mr T £50 to apologise. Our investigator thought Tescos offer was a fair way to 
resolve Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T asked to appeal and pointed out hes able to receive OTACs from other credit card 
providers and offered to send us a video of his attempts to log in with Tesco and the other 
credit card provider. Mr T explained this would show that he was able to successfully use his 
landline to receive OTACs from other businesses which indicated the fault lies with Tesco. 
Mr Ts case was passed to me and I asked the investigator to request a video from Mr T 
showing his experiences when requesting OTACs. I wanted to forward the video to Tesco for 
investigation and comment. In January 2023 Mr T sent us videos of him attempting to log 
into his Tesco online banking facility using the landline OTAC. 
In the footage, Mr T can be seen requesting an OTAC via Tescos online system. When Mr T 
requests the code, his landline phone shows as line busy. When Mr T accepts the call, he 
received a beeping tone and no OTAC is provided. Mr T also sent us footage of his attempts 
to use another credit card providers (V) systems to obtain an OTAC. The footage showed 
Mr T was quickly able to receive an OTAC from V when using its online system.
Our investigator attempted to forward the footage to Tesco to review and investigate why Mr 
T wasnt receiving its OTACs via his landline. In March 2023 Tesco requested more footage 
of Mr Ts attempts. Mr T forwarded new footage and this was sent to Tesco. At the beginning 
of April 2023 Tesco responded and said that due to a restructure within its technical team, it 
wasnt possible to review the footage Mr T sent. Tesco confirmed Mr T could use a mobile
number to receive OTACs if the landline remained unworkable. Tesco also said Mr T could 
call it for banking enquiries if he wished.
As Mr T asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the timeline above as all parties appear to broadly 
agree about what happened in Mr Ts case. In response to the investigator, Mr T has 
explained that he doesnt have regular access to a mobile phone and relies on his landline 
for calls and access to the internet. Mr T has explained that as he is generally housebound 
he uses the landline. And Mr T has explained that Tescos system used to work to receive 
OTACs to his landline but unexpectedly stopped working which led to his complaint being 
raised. Whilst I understand Tesco feels this could be simply fixed, Mr T has confirmed he 
doesnt have regular access to a mobile phone and doesnt feel its reasonable for him to be 
expected to obtain one on the basis of being unable to receive its OTACs. I think Mr T 
makes a reasonable point.
Mr T has consistently explained that he is well used to requesting and obtaining OTACs via 
his landline with Tesco and other businesses. Mr T has forwarded us multiple videos that 
show him attempting to obtain an OTAC from Tesco via his landline. Each time, as Mr T 
originally claimed, when he presses call his landline phone switches to showing as line 
busy but theres no ring tone. When Mr T picks up the line a beeping tone can be heard, but 
no OTAC is provided. As a counter point, Mr T has also forwarded a video of him carrying 
out the same process with another credit card provider, V. In this footage, the OTAC is 
requested in much the same way and is successfully received. So, as a starting point, Im 
satisfied Mr T is able to receive OTACs via his landline.
I wanted Tesco to review the footage and investigate what was happening in Mr Ts case. 
Weve forwarded the footage to Tesco twice but due to what appear to be delays and 
restructures it hasnt been viewed and no further explanation has been provided. I dont think 
its fair or reasonable to keep asking Mr T to submit the same evidence. And whilst Tesco 
has been unable to view the footage, it still claims theres no known issue with its system 
and that the issue lies with Mr T. But Im not persuaded Tescos taken reasonable steps to 
establish that position.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Ts complaint. Based on the footage Mr T has sent 
us, there doesnt appear to be a technical issue receiving an OTAC via his landline. Its 
working when Mr T attempts to use Vs system to obtain an OTAC. And whilst I note Tescos 
comments, Im not persuaded its done enough to investigate the technical issues Mr T is 
experiencing or resolve them. So I intend to tell Tesco to work with Mr T so it can review a 
real time attempt to obtain an OTAC and its technical teams can look at whether anything 
can be done to resolve the problem. Mr T should be aware that theres no guarantee that 
even once Tesco has completed more comprehensive investigations hell be able to receive 
OTACs.
With that said, I think Mr T may need to accept that, for whatever reason, he may not be able 
to receive OTACs from Tesco to his landline in the near future. I understand that may feel 
like an unsatisfactory answer to his complaint. And I understand Mr T may need to consider 
whether retaining the credit card in the long term without access to this feature is right for him if receiving OTACs is of primary importance. Ive taken this into account when deciding 
how to fairly resolve this complaint.
In my view, Tesco hasnt done enough to show the fault lies with Mr Ts landline. In fact, Mr 
T has supplied evidence that strongly indicates there isnt issue with his landline. Based on 
the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Tesco offered Mr T £50 
for giving him the wrong information when it issued the final response. Im satisfied thats fair 
for the error in the final response. But I also intend to award Mr T £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the ongoing lack of access to OTACs and way his enquiries about 
the technical issues experienced have been handled. That means I intend to ask Tesco to 
pay Mr T a total of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. In addition, Tesco 
should continue to work with Mr T with a view to investigating the technical issues hes 
experiencing.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted me to 
take into account before I made my final decision. 
Tesco responded and said its stance on Mr Ts complaint was set out in its final response 
and subsequent mediation offer. Tesco says OTACs have been sent correctly to Mr Ts 
landline and provided screenshots to show when that occurred in October 2022. Tesco 
reiterated that it feels the issue stems from a software or technical problem with Mr Ts 
landline network or handset and that whilst he may be able to receive other OTACs its 
system is likely different to other providers. Tesco added that online banking is an additional 
service that is optional and that if a customer doesnt have the necessary technology to use 
it the service is unavailable. Tesco said the issue hadnt impacted Mr Ts ability to use his 
account and that theres no proof Tesco is at fault. 
Mr T responded and said Tescos agents hadnt tried to resolve the problem receiving 
OTACs via his landline and had instead attempted to persuade him to purchase a mobile 
phone for access. In addition, Mr T has explained he has a working landline and access to 
the internet. Mr T asked whether Tesco would pay for a mobile phone contact in order for 
him to receive OTACs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered both parties responses. Tesco reiterated its view that there is no technical 
fault with the process it follows when issuing OTACs to Mr Ts landline. And its forwarded 
evidence to show when OTACs were sent in October 2022. I appreciate OTACs were sent, 
but I note the screen prints show the calls as hung up. But Mr Ts sent us video evidence 
that shows when an OTAC is issued by Tesco his landline doesnt ring and he has no option 
to retrieve it. So its clear there is a technical issue at play that is impacting whether Mr T can 
receive an OTAC. 
I note Tescos comments but the provisional decision didnt say Tescos system was at fault. 
My provisional decision said Tesco hadnt carried out reasonable investigations into Mr Ts 
problems receiving the OTAC to establish that position. I understand the other OTACs Mr T 
received are from a different business that uses a separate system. But Mr Ts confirmed 
hes previously been able to receive OTACs to his landline from Tesco. And Im satisfied the 
video evidence Mr T has provided is sufficient to demonstrate its unreasonable to simply 
dismiss his difficulties as relating to a call blocker or problem with his handset. I remain of 
the view that Tesco should have done more to look into the technical problems Mr T faces.I also note Tescos point that if a customer hasnt got the necessary technology to utilise 
online banking the service is unavailable to them. But, for the reasons Ive given above and 
in my provisional decision, Im note persuaded Tesco has done enough to show the fault lies 
with Mr Ts landline or handset or the technology hes trying to use. I still think Tesco needs 
to look into Mr Ts technical problems further. 
Ive read and considered everything Tesco has said in response to the provisional decision 
but havent been persuaded to change my view of how to fairly resolve Mr Ts complaint. 
Mr T responded and explained Tescos agents have recommended he obtains a mobile 
phone and provided details of low cost options that hes been unable to find. Mr Ts told us 
he has a working landline and isnt looking to obtain a mobile phone for the sole purpose of 
receiving OTACs from Tesco. 
I take Mr Ts point, but as Ive noted above, I havent found that the error lies with Tescos 
systems. My provisional decision to uphold Mr Ts complaint was made on the basis it hadnt 
done enough to investigate the technical issues he raised. Its possible that even after Tesco 
does complete further investigations its still unable to find a fault with its systems. Its also 
possible the fault does lie at Mr Ts end. And, as I noted in the provisional decision, Mr T 
may need to consider that he isnt able to receive OTACs via his landline in the long term 
and how best to proceed. Ive taken Mr Ts comments about mobile phone contracts 
onboard, but Im satisfied an additional award for the inconvenience caused is a fair way to 
resolve his complaint. 
Ive read and considered everything provided by Mr T and Tesco in response to my 
provisional decision. Having done so, I havent been persuaded to change my view of how to 
fairly resolve Mr Ts complaint. I still think Mr Ts case should be upheld, for the same 
reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading 
as Tesco Bank to pay him £250 (less any compensation already paid) and continue to 
investigate eh technical issues experienced receiving OTACs to his landline.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman