DRN-3273602
The complaint
Mr W complains that hes not been fairly compensated by Lloyds Bank PLC for mis-sold 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) on a credit card (account ending 6931 and linked 
cards ending 7494 and 2889.)
What happened
I havent set out the background and circumstances leading up to this complaint because 
they arent disputed. Whats disputed by Mr W is the compensation amount. So briefly:
In July 2020 Lloyds upheld Mr Ws PPI mis-selling complaint and on 20 July 2020 it paid him 
an amount of £3,137.01. 
Mr W then complained to this Service that he was unhappy with the amount of compensation 
paid.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said they thought the 
compensation was fair and had been calculated in accordance with the Financial 
Ombudsman Services guidelines for redressing mis-sold credit card PPI.
Because Mr W disagrees the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and my reasons are set out below. 
Before I do, I want to say that I think the adjudicator has set out the position clearly and 
theres very little I feel I can usefully add to what Mr W has already been told. So this is not a 
long decision.
In arriving at fair compensation, I expect Lloyds to essentially re-work Mr Ws credit card 
account as if it didnt have PPI. In doing so Lloyds should refund any fees and charges and 
interest on those charges due to the PPI. Lloyds should also add compensatory interest for 
any time the calculation shows that Mr W has been out of pocket because his credit card 
balance would have been in credit. The rate of interest used is 8% per year (Lloyds is 
obliged to deduct basic rate tax on compensatory interest payments.)
Lloyds has provided its calculations and Ive looked at them carefully. Having done so, Im 
satisfied it has calculated Mr Ws compensation in line with what I would expect and so 
represents fair compensation in the circumstances. The calculation runs for the life of the 
PPI  from 2004 when the policy started until the account closed at the end of 2010.
I can see that Mr W says he wants compensating for the delay in him receiving payment. He 
also says that he wont be satisfied until the ombudsman agrees that he should get back all 
of the PPI premiums paid along with associated interest at 8% per year on each card or 
account.
Any delay Mr W encountered between making his complaint and him receiving payment has 
already been compensated for  Lloyds calculation took account of the date of payment. So 
Mr W hasnt lost out here.
And in terms of the 8% interest award  as Ive said above Im satisfied Mr W has been fairly 
compensated. In credit card PPI redress, it is not the case that 8% is awarded on every PPI 
payment made  only where the account reconstruction shows that the credit card balance 
would otherwise have been in credit had PPI not been mis-sold. This is to compensate for 
being out of pocket. At other times  i.e. where the account would still have been in debit - it 
is the debit interest charged on the PPI premiums, which should be refunded because this 
represents the financial loss incurred. 
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied Lloyds has done this in Mr Ws case. 
Because Lloyds has already made payment to Mr W, theres nothing more it needs to do to 
put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided that Lloyds Bank PLC has fairly 
compensated Mr W for mis-sold PPI  so I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman