DRN-1773299
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc igave her a credit card with a credit limit of 
£300 in May 2018. Mrs S believes that this was an instance of irresponsible lending, as 
Capital One (Europe) plc did not conduct appropriate checks, which would have 
demonstrated that the credit limit was not affordable for her at that time.
What happened
Mrs S applied for a Capital One credit card online in May 2018. When Mrs S completed the 
online application, she stated that she was employed and that her annual income was 
£41,500. The credit limit applied for was £300.
Capital One approved the credit card application. As part of its approved process Capital 
One checked Mrs S credit file and utilised the information provided by Mrs S via her online 
application.
In January 2020, a complaint was raised to Capital One on behalf of Mrs S that Capital One 
approving the credit card was an example of irresponsible lending. Capital One issued a final 
response where the did not uphold this complaint. They felt that the information they had 
gathered and the checks that they had conducted as part of the application process had 
demonstrated that the borrowing was affordable for Mrs S at that time.
Mrs S and her representative didnt agree with Capital Ones decision and referred the 
matter to our service. They explained that Mrs S was unemployed and had been 
unemployed at the time of the credit card application. As such, the declaration on the online 
application that Mrs S was working and had an annual income of £41,500 had been 
incorrect, and that had Capital One carried out appropriate checks then this would have 
been discovered and the credit card application declined.  
One of our investigators looked at this case. They felt that the checks conducted by Capital 
One had been appropriate in relation to the level of the credit limit being applied for, and 
noted that as the £300 credit limit being applied for was relatively low, a lender would not be 
expected to undertake checks disproportionate to that credit limit  such as requesting proof 
of the applicants declared annual income. 
As such, our investigator felt that they couldnt fairly say that Capital One had done anything 
wrong in approving the credit card. And so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs S and her representative didnt agree with this position and provided further information, 
including a breakdown of household income and expenditure which showed that Mrs S was 
in financial difficulties. They also said that Capital One should have bee able to see from Mrs 
Ss credit file that her declaration of an annual income of £41,500 was not correct.
Our investigator explained that, while we understand that Mrs S may be in financial 
difficulties, the key point with regard this complaint is whether Capital One should reasonably 
have been expected to know that Mrs S was in financial difficulties at the time of the credit 
card application.  
Our investigator confirmed that, in their opinion, the checks that Capital One conducted at 
the time of the application  which included reviewing Mrs Ss credit file and the information 
provided by Mrs S in the application - were proportionate and correct with regard to the £300 
credit limit being applied for.  
Accordingly, based on these checks, our investigator felt that Capital One could not 
reasonably have been expected to know that Mrs S was in financial difficulties at that time of 
the application, and that such a conclusion could only possibly be reached after more 
extensive checks, which would not have been proportionate to the £300 credit limit being 
applied for and so which were not required of Capital One at that time.   
Our investigator also confirmed that their review of Mrs Ss credit file at the time of the 
application did not highlight any issues that should have caused Capital One to question its 
decision to accept Mrs Ss credit card application, and also noted that credit file information 
does not include a persons annual income. As such, our investigator didnt change their 
initial position and continued to not uphold the complaint.
Mrs S and her representative remained unhappy, and so the matter was passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs S and her representative have made a number of detailed points, which I 
have read and considered. My response wont be as detailed. As an informal resolution 
service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of 
formality. In doing so, its not necessary for me to respond to every point made, but to 
concentrate on what I determine to be the key factors of the complaint.
It is clear that Mrs S and her representative feel strongly about this issue, and I sympathise 
with the financial situation that Mrs S finds herself in, but I also wont be upholding this 
complaint for the same reasons as have already been explained by our investigator.
When lenders look at any application to borrow money, they need to make sure that there 
are proportionate checks in place. The checks should ensure that any credit thats approved 
is affordable and sustainable for the borrower. 
Mrs S and her representative contend that more extensive checks should have been 
undertaken by Capital One. I cant agree with this position. As mentioned, the level of checks 
that a lender undertakes are required to be proportionate, taking into account a number of 
factors, including the amount of credit being applied for and the persons credit history. 
Larger amounts of credit require more extensive checks. 
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete and its up to each business to decide 
how it wants to approach assessing applications. But for the amount of credit being applied 
for in this instance, Id have expected Capital One to look at the information from the credit 
bureau (payment history and any details of arrears), the information provided in the 
application, and what they knew about Mrs S from any prior interaction. 
This is precisely the information that Capital One did assess in this instance, and this 
information didnt highlight any areas which were a cause for concern to Capital One, and so 
it follows that I cant fairly say that Capital One did anything wrong in accepting Mrs Ss 
credit card application based on this information.   I note that Mrs S and her representative have stated that Mrs S was not working at the time 
of the application and that the declaration made by Mrs S in the application that she was 
working with an annual income of £41,500 was incorrect. I also note the income and 
expenditure information provided which demonstrates that Mrs S is in financial difficulties.  
However, while I understand the difficult position Mrs S is in, the key point I have to consider 
for this complaint is whether Capital One should have reasonably been expected to know 
this information and therefore taken it into account when considering Mrs Ss application for 
the credit card.
Ultimately, I cannot say that Capital One should reasonably have been expected to know 
such information, as such information could only possibly have been gathered by more 
extensive checks into Mrs Ss financial and personal circumstances.  And, as mentioned, I 
dont think such additional checks were required by Capital One because they would have 
been disproportionate to the amount of credit being applied for.
It follows, therefore, that I cannot fairly say that Capital One have done anything wrong in 
approving the credit card that Mrs S applied for, and as such I wont be upholding this 
complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman