DRN-3282963
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) did not reimburse him all of the money 
he lost when he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mr G was looking to invest some of his money with the aim of increasing his retirement fund. 
He entered his details into a number of websites online and received a call from someone 
who purported to be calling from Company L. 
The genuine Company L are a well-known financial services provider who do offer 
investments, and in this case, they appeared to be offering Mr G a range of fixed-rate bonds. 
However, unbeknown to Mr G, he was actually speaking with fraudsters who were operating 
as a clone of the legitimate company and who were using all of their genuine literature and 
documentation.
Mr G spoke with the fraudsters at length about what would be the most suitable investment 
for him. Ultimately, it was agreed this would be a two-year fixed-rate bond at a rate of 3.5%. 
Mr G was told that he would need to complete various checks before proceeding to make 
payment and he completed a detailed application form and had a lengthy compliance 
telephone conversation too. Mr G was then sent lots of information and literature about the 
bond he was intending to invest in. This documentation was branded with the logo of 
Company L and contained all of the types of things you would expect to see from a genuine 
investment firm. The documentation was sent from an email address that appeared to have 
an abbreviation of Company L in the domain name. Mr G said all of the above persuaded 
him that he was dealing with the genuine Company L.
Mr G decided to invest and made two payments: one for £50,000, and a further payment the 
following day for £15,000.
Mr G was told to make the payments to an account that wasnt in the name of Company L. 
He was told this was because the payments would first go to a holding account before 
being placed in his account. Mr G was told this was for insurance purposes so he didnt 
think to question the name of the account further. Its worth noting now that the account in 
question appears to be held by a foreign exchange company.
Finally, Mr G was told that he had passed all of the various security checks and the money 
had been allocated to his account which he could monitor using personal login details. 
Sometime later, Mr G decided to pay some further funds into his investment and when he 
couldnt get in touch with the person he had spoken to previously he contacted the legitimate 
Company L  thinking it was this company he had been dealing with all along. It was at this 
point that Mr G was told that Company L no longer offered the type of bond Mr G was 
referring to and that he had likely been scammed. 
Mr G reported the scam to Barclays. Barclays looked into what had happened and agreed to 
refund 50% of Mr Gs losses under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM 
Code). Barclays held Mr G liable for the remainder of his loss as it believed he should have 
done further checks to ensure the company he was dealing with was the legitimate 
Company L before he agreed to proceed with the payments. For example, it said Mr G 
should have checked for fraud warnings about cloned companies on the FCA website or 
reviewed the potential investment with a financial advisor. Barclays said that it prompted Mr 
G to do so when he processed the payments online but Mr G had gone on to process the 
payments without taking heed of Barclays warnings. 
Mr G was unhappy with Barclays response and so he brought a complaint to this service. 
The investigator who considered it asked Barclays to refund Mr Gs losses in full. She said 
she thought Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing the payee he was paying was the 
person he expected to pay, and that he was dealing with the genuine Company L. This was 
because the fraudsters had taken Mr G through what appeared to be a genuine verification 
process, they had provided all of the documentation you would expect to find for this type of 
investment and all of this documentation contained the logo and branding of the well-known 
company Mr G thought he had been dealing with. She went on to say that the bond being 
discussed had previously been offered by the genuine Company L and the rate of return 
wasnt out of line with what you would expect from this type of investment either. She also 
thought Mr G  had been provided with a reasonable explanation as to why he appeared to 
be paying an intermediary account. 
She pointed out that she hadnt seen a copy of the warning Barclays had said it had shown 
to Mr G at the time of making the payment and so she couldnt say whether it was enough 
for Barclays to have met its obligations under the code - but based on ones she had seen 
from around the same time, she thought this unlikely. 
Barclays disagreed with our investigators findings and provided the warning it says Mr G 
would have seen at the time. I have included the body of this warning below:
Could this be a scam?
Have you checked that the company you're paying is genuine? You should be extra 
careful, as we've seen an increase in cloned websites of financial institutions. You can 
check the FCA website to see if there are any warning messages about the company 
you're looking to invest in.
You should also check that any investment you're considering is through a FCA-regulated 
firm, and that the spelling is exactly the same as the company you're in contact with. Be 
aware that fraudsters often provide an initial return on an investment to encourage you to 
provide larger amounts of money. They might also use current news topics, like COVID-19, 
to ask you to move your current investment, or invest in new accounts in the UK or 
overseas. It's best to talk to someone you trust or a financial adviser before investing your 
money and you should reject unexpected offers.
Barclays stressed that the warning prompted Mr G to check that he was dealing with a 
genuine firm as investment firms were being cloned and that it prompted him to check the 
FCA website to see if there were any warnings about the company he thought he was 
dealing with. Barclays said that had Mr G followed its advice, he would have seen a warning 
on the FCA website about the genuine Company L having been cloned and the names and 
contact details Mr G had been corresponding with were those of the fraudsters, not the 
genuine firm, and the scam wouldve been prevented. For these reasons Barclays 
maintained that its offer of a 50% refund was fair and reasonable.Our investigator didnt agree. She said she didnt think the warning provided to Mr G could 
be considered an effective warning under the CRM code and so she thought it was 
reasonable for Mr G to move past it without thinking it applied to him. She also said that she 
didnt think the warning wouldve undermined Mr Gs belief that he was dealing with the 
genuine Company L - Mr G said he didnt remember seeing the warning at all. She went on 
to say that she thought Barclays couldve prevented the scam from the outset, before the 
funds even left Mr Gs account as the transactions were of high value and shouldve 
prompted further questioning from Barclays before they were processed. And had this taken 
place, Barclays couldve prevented the scam. But Barclays didnt contact Mr G or ask him 
any further questions about the payments before it allowed them to leave his account. 
Barclays disagreed and as an agreement could not be reached, the case has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same outcome as our investigator - for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer under the CRM 
Code are limited. And it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care, as set out in the code. Barclays has said that one or more of the 
exceptions to reimbursement applies in Mr Gs case. The relevant exceptions to 
reimbursement are, broadly: 
where it can be demonstrated that a customer ignored an effective warning given 
by the bank 
where the customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for belief 
that they were dealing with the person they thought they were
Did Barclays present Mr G with an effective warning? 
Im not persuaded that the warning given by Barclays does meet the definition of an 
effective warning under The CRM Code. The requirements for this are set out in the 
Code under the standards for firms. And the warning that was presented doesnt meet 
all those requirements. 
In summary, it doesnt make it clear that any money sent as a result of a scam would 
be lost and likely irrecoverable. And whilst I acknowledge that it does highlight an 
increase in cloned websites, it doesnt explain what cloning means in this context or 
provide an example of a cloning scam. In this case, the majority of conversations 
surrounding the investment were taking place over the telephone and Im not 
persuaded that Mr G really knew what cloning meant, especially in a scam context, 
hes told us he didnt. And if he didnt know what it meant and what it could potentially 
mean for him; he wouldnt have understood why this warning may be relevant to him 
either - to the point that he should need to conduct further research. 
I also acknowledge what Barclays have said about the warning saying you can check the 
FCA website but it doesnt say Mr G must check the FCA website, or provide the 
consequences around not doing so and continuing with the payment. And so Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable for Mr G to continue with the payment especially given 
that he thought he was dealing with a well-known and long-established firm. 
Im also not persuaded that the warning shouldve interrupted Mr Gs reasonable basis for 
believing he was dealing with the genuine Company L or that him reviewing this warning 
meant he proceeded without a reasonable basis for this belief  I will expand on this further 
later on.
In summary, Im not persuaded Barclays can rely on the effective warnings exception in 
order to not fully reimburse Mr G in this particular case. And this would normally mean that 
the bank is responsible for covering at least 50% of Mr Gs loss. But here, Barclays has 
already refunded that amount. And this award will only be increased if it could be said that 
Mr G had a reasonable basis of belief when making the payments. Ill address that next. 
Did Mr G make the payments with a reasonable basis of belief? 
Ive seen at least some of the correspondence between Mr G and the fraudsters. And Ive 
seen the bond literature that Mr G was sent too. Theres no doubt that this was a convincing 
scam. The fraudsters have used carefully tailored email addresses that look as though they 
could belong to genuine employees of Company L. They have used stolen and copied bond 
information. And there appears to have been a detailed and convincing on-boarding and 
customer verification process too. These are all elements that made the investment and the 
people Mr G was dealing with seem legitimate. I can certainly see how Mr G was drawn in 
by the scammers here.
Having said the above, I also find that the warning provided by Barclays to be a good 
attempt at trying to warn customers about this particular type of scam. The warning is 
relevant to my considerations concerning whether Mr G had a reasonable basis of belief; it 
isnt only considered as part of the effective warning exception. Thats because it does still 
form part of the wider circumstances as to what was happening as the scam unfolded. 
However, in the particular circumstances of this case, I am not persuaded that this warning 
should have wholly undermined Mr Gs reasonable basis for believing that he was paying the 
genuine Company L or that Mr G would have thought the warning so relevant to his 
circumstances that he shouldve completed further checks  which couldve ultimately 
uncovered the scam. Ill explain why.
Mr G has told us that he cant remember seeing the warning at all. But hes told us that even 
if he had, he didnt really know what cloning meant and he wasnt really sure of the role of 
the FCA either  he thought they potentially guaranteed reimbursement should an 
investment company fail. And by the point Mr G wouldve seen this warning, he had already 
completed a detailed application form and been through a lengthy on-boarding process. Hed 
also been sent detailed and branded documentation. He thought he was dealing with a well-
known firm and the documentation and process hed been through was persuasive. As Ive 
said above, the warning doesnt give an example of what a clone means and so based on 
what Mr G has told us, its reasonable to presume that he wasnt aware that fraudsters could 
steal genuine documentation and literature and use it as their own. I also asked Barclays if it 
could provide me with any electronic records that would show how long the warning 
appeared on screen so I could understand what had happened during the payment process 
but Barclays has been unable to provide me with this information. And so, overall, and in the 
particular circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded that seeing this warning shouldve 
reasonably undermined Mr Gs belief that he was dealing with the genuine Company L, to 
the point that failing to complete any further checks means he made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for belief.  In summary, I am not persuaded that Mr G failed to take the requisite level of care required 
for Barclays to choose not to reimburse him in full under the terms of the CRM Code. I think 
it ought to have fully refunded Mr G under the provisions of the CRM Code and so it should 
fairly and reasonably refund the remainder of his loss now.
Is there anything else Barclays ought to have fairly and reasonably done? 
Barclays ought to have done more to question the payments Mr G was making, particularly 
the first one. He was sending a large sum of money to a new payee. And so, the bank ought 
to have questioned Mr G directly, either on the phone or in branch. At this point, Barclays 
could have talked Mr G through the common characteristics of this type of scam and why it 
was so important to check the FCA website. It couldve also told him that there was no 
genuine and legitimate reason for him paying a third-party account. And so Im also 
persuaded that Barclays couldve prevented the scam from the outset.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Barclays should now:
Refund Mr G the remainder of his loss
Pay Mr G 8% simple interest from the date the payments left his account to the date 
of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022. 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman