DRN-3264034
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with payments out of his account.
What happened
Mr B says he tried to make a payment for £15,000 to a business for cryptocurrency in 
August 2021 but the payment was blocked. He tried to make a payment for £10,000 to the 
same business but that was also blocked and spoke to Barclays. Mr B says it was agreed 
the £15,000 payment would be authorised, but the second payment cancelled. He says the 
second payment wasnt cancelled which meant his account became overdrawn. Mr B says 
Barclays compensation offer of £250 isnt enough and would like £750. He also says the 
delay meant he bought the currency at a higher price.
Barclays accepts it made a mistake by authorising both payments and has apologised. It 
says it paid Mr B £1,000 initially to prevent his account becoming overdrawn as a temporary 
measure and has offered £250 compensation. Barclays says it also said it would cover any 
losses Mr B incurred and said it would cover any losses caused by selling the currency if 
sold by the end of August 2021.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer of 
£250 appropriate but thought Barclays should honour its offer to have covered any losses if 
Mr B had sold the currency by the end of August 2021 which he calculated at about £1,460.
Barclays has agreed with that recommendation if Mr B is prepared to sell the currency by the 
deadline it gave of 7 January 2022.
Mr B doesnt agree with that view and says the compensation doesnt go far enough for the 
stress he was caused and says if he sold the currency now then he would suffer a loss as its 
value has dropped below the end of August 2021 valuation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has made an appropriate 
compensation offer of £250 and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances 
of this complaint. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision.
I am sure that Mr B appreciates that banks and building societies must have security 
measures in place to protect its and its customers money. So, I dont think Barclays made a 
mistake by initially blocking the £15,000 payment for what I think was a relatively short time 
period in August 2021. Im satisfied that Barclays is entitled to do so in line with agreed 
account terms and conditions. It follows that I cant hold Barclays responsible for any loss Mr 
B says he suffered when the currency price increased whilst he waiting for the transaction to 
be authorised.
There is no dispute here that Barclays then made a mistake by authorising both payments 
not one. I have no doubt Mr B was caused distress and inconvenience as a result of what 
took place and can see that he spent some time speaking to Barclays about the problem. 
But I can see that Barclays apologised for what took place and acted fairly by making sure 
Mr Bs account was no longer overdrawn. I also think Barclays made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £250 and acted within a couple of days to sort matters out as well as 
providing Mr B with an option to make sure he was put back in the position he would have 
been in if there was no mistake.
The key part of this complaint is the potential currency loss and the fairness of Barclays offer 
to reimburse Mr B with any losses if he sold the currency. I have listened to the telephone 
calls between the parties and looked at Barclays final response letter dated 26 August 2021 
which Mr B says he received on 29 August 2021. Im satisfied that Barclays offer was fair 
and reasonable which was to put Mr B back in the position he would have been in before the 
mistake and that it would cover any losses if the currency price had dropped. Im also 
satisfied that Barclays told Mr B that information in a telephone call on or around 19 August 
2021 and told Mr B repeatedly that he needed to sell the currency by the end of the week. 
During the call Im satisfied Mr B repeated back that information that you want the shares 
sold by the end of the week and asked that the information be given to him in writing. So, I 
dont think there ought to have been any doubt what Barclays was asking Mr B to do namely 
sell the currency and it would cover any loss but that it had to be done by a certain date. And 
that the information was repeated in more than one telephone call. 
I appreciate Mr B says he thought there was some confusion about what Barclays was 
saying about referral rights to us, but Im satisfied Barclays made its position clear on 
numerous occasions and then repeated that information in its letter. I appreciate Mr B may 
not have received the final response letter by the deadline but am satisfied that information 
was e-mailed to Mr B some four days before that deadline. I have also made clear that 
Barclays had previously made its position clear and gave Mr B a reasonable time period to 
sell the currency if he wished. 
I can see that following the investigators view, that a second opportunity was given to Mr B 
to sell the currency and that Barclays would pay for the loss as at the end of August 2021 
date. I appreciate what Mr B says about the volatility of this type of currency, but I also think 
it unfair to expect Barclays to provide an open-ended offer as it was paying for possible 
currency loss. And I think it Mr Bs choice not to have sold the currency either by the end of 
August 2021 as directed by Barclays or at any other stage.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays compensation offer of £250 is fair and reasonable and will 
leave it to Mr B if he wishes to accept it as it appears Barclays hasnt paid it. And Im also 
satisfied Barclays fairly offered to put Mr B back in the position he would have been in if not 
for the mistake and gave him a reasonable time period to sell the currency. I find it was Mr 
Bs choice not to do so and that it would be unreasonable to expect Barclays to honour that 
offer on an open-ended basis.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and find that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £250. Mr Bs 
acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2022.
 David Singh
Ombudsman