DRN-3692853
The complaint
The estate of X, represented by Mrs B, complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) failed to provide the joint life annuity quote X had requested. She says that this led to 
a single life annuity being incorrectly set up. Shed like Aviva to honour the original joint life 
request. 
What happened
X had a pension with Aviva. His wife, Mrs B, said that in 2011, hed decided to use his 
pension fund to buy an annuity which would provide her with half of his annuity payment on 
his death. Mrs B said her husband had always assured her that she would receive half his 
pension. And that he believed that the policy had been set up on a joint basis. She said this 
had been especially important to him given he had a heart condition. She said that Aviva had 
received his request for a joint life annuity. And that theyd allocated a policy number to it. 
But that theyd then failed to register the request.
Mrs B said her husband wasnt aware of Avivas oversight. So when he received further 
options he ticked the same option (option three) that hed previously submitted. The option 
hed ticked was for a single life, not a joint life, annuity with a ten-year guarantee and 3% 
each year pension increases.  
Mrs B said that at the time, her husband was on medication for his heart condition and was 
confused about having to submit his request again. 
X died in July 2020. Mrs B said that after his death she was shocked to discover that the 
annuity her husband had purchased wasnt a joint life annuity. Therefore shed receive no 
further payments after the end of the guarantee period. 
Mrs B felt that if Aviva had registered her husbands original option, he wouldve bought a 
joint life annuity. She told this service that her late husband had several other small pensions 
and there had been no issues with her spouse's pension elsewhere. Mrs B complained to 
Aviva. She said they told her theyd made an error during the set-up process by failing to 
provide joint-life quotes.
Aviva issued their final response on the complaint on 30 September 2020. They didnt 
uphold it. While they agreed that theyd failed to provide joint life quotes to X, they said that 
the quotes they had initially issued in January 2011 had stated that additional quotes could 
be provided if required. They said X hadnt requested any further quotes. Aviva said theyd 
shared the quotes with Xs financial adviser. And had suggested that he sought financial 
advice. But said that X had chosen to set up the annuity without any financial advice.
Aviva said that on 1 March 2011, theyd received Xs options forms choosing option three of 
the quote, which didnt include a dependants pension after his death. They said that after 
theyd set up the annuity, theyd written to X to confirm it. They said this letter had included a 
cancellation form which he couldve used to cancel the annuity. But that he hadnt contacted 
them to do this. Nor had he ever queried the information theyd given him about the 
payments that would be made in the event of his death.
Mrs B was unhappy with Avivas response. She said that the reason her husband hadnt 
gone back to Aviva to ask for a different option was because hed already requested a joint 
life annuity. She said that Aviva had given this option a policy number, but that they had 
failed to register it. And that her husband wouldnt have known that they werent dealing with 
the option hed originally submitted to them. She said hed chosen option three from the 
January 2011 quote because hed originally chosen option three. Mrs B felt that her husband 
was confused by the subsequent options Aviva sent him, given he was on medication for a 
heart problem. 
Aviva replied to Mrs B. They said her husband had sent them a personal information form in 
February 2011, which had included details for Mrs B, before theyd sent the retirement pack, 
which had only included single life options. They shared a copy of this form with Mrs B. But 
said they had no documents from him selecting a joint life annuity under option three. They 
asked Mrs B to share any further paperwork if she thought X had submitted anything else. 
Aviva confirmed to this service that the single life annuity they set up for X was enhanced 
based on the information he gave them on his personal information form.
Aviva acknowledged that X had asked to see quotes for a joint life annuity. And apologised 
for not providing them. They felt that although this had been an oversight on their part, it was 
reasonable to assume that X wouldve got in touch with them to ask them for a joint life 
quote before returning any forms. They said that it didnt matter what previous paperwork a 
customer had submitted, because they would always act on the instructions provided to us 
on the I want a retirement income with Aviva form that theyd included in the retirement 
pack.
Unhappy, Mrs B brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator felt it should be 
upheld. She felt that Avivas error had led to Xs annuity being set up incorrectly. And that if 
the joint life quote hed requested had been provided, that he wouldve chosen to provide an 
income for his wife. To put things right, she felt that Aviva should assume that the annuity 
wouldve been set up on the same basis as the option X had selected, but on a joint life 
basis. And that an annuity should be set up for Mrs B going forward on this basis. She felt 
that any missed payments should now be paid to Mrs B, with 8% simple interest gross from 
the date each payment shouldve been made to the date the settlement is paid. She also felt 
that Aviva should also pay Mrs B £200 for the inconvenience the situation has caused.
Our investigator didnt consider that Aviva should adjust the spouses annuity to reflect the
fact that higher payments wouldve been made when the annuity was paid on a single-life 
basis. 
Aviva didnt agree with our investigator. They made the following points:
X had not only one, but two, opportunities to tell them that theyd failed to provide 
joint life quotes. These were when he received the quotes on a single life basis, and 
when theyd written to him to confirm that a single life annuity had been set up. He 
hadnt done so.
They said that when X had completed and signed the maturity forms hed confirmed 
he wanted his annuity set up with option three of the quote. They said that the quote 
had clearly explained that option three did not provide a spouses pension.
They acknowledged that X had requested joint life quotes. But felt that X had a duty 
to ensure hed reviewed the paperwork, given the importance of what he was 
agreeing to. They said he had clearly reviewed the options as hed chosen to have a ten-year guarantee and 3% yearly increase which provided a lower initial income 
compared to the other options on the quote.
Aviva said that their letter dated 9 March 2011 had clearly stated to X that theyd 
continue to pay his income to the estate or beneficiary until the guarantee ended. 
And that payments would stop if he were to die outside of this period. They said there 
was no mention of a spouses pension. 
They also said that X had the option to cancel the annuity and choose another 
option, but this wasnt exercised, despite the accompanying correspondence clearly 
explaining there would be no spouses income on his death. 
Aviva didnt feel that our investigator had considered that theyd written to X to 
confirm the details of his annuity and his right to cancel and set up another option 
instead. They felt this showed that X had all the information he needed to understand 
the annuity he was going to receive. And that it wasnt fair or reasonable to assume, 
based on all the above, that X wouldve opted for a spouses pension or that he was 
under the impression it was not available to him.
Our investigator considered Avivas points, but didnt change her opinion. She accepted that 
the paperwork had stated that the options didnt include a dependents income. But still didnt 
consider that Aviva had made it sufficiently clear that this option was available. She felt that 
as a layperson, X wouldnt have understood that he hadnt received the quotations hed 
requested.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 26 August 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Bs complaint about the annuity. I understand 
this will be extremely disappointing. I dont agree with our investigator that Avivas error 
directly led to Xs annuity being set up incorrectly. While I acknowledge that X may have 
intended to set up the annuity on a joint life basis, I consider that Aviva provided enough 
information for him to have been able to realise that he had requested a single life annuity. 
However, I do intend to uphold this complaint as Im satisfied that Aviva havent correctly 
explained what happened. I consider that this has caused Mrs B distress and inconvenience. 
Ill explain why.
To help inform my decision, I produced a timeline of the correspondence that took place 
between Aviva and X in early 2011. 
Timeline
Aviva have recently provided this service with a retirement options pack dated 23 February 
2011. From what Ive seen, this hadnt previously been provided to this service. Aviva had 
also previously acknowledged that although X had expressed an interest in joint life quotes, 
they hadnt been provided at the time due to an oversight on their part. Furthermore, Avivas 
response to further issues Mrs B raised after they issued their final response letter failed to 
indicate that this pack had ever been produced or sent to X.
13 January 2011: Retirement quote. Quote reference 614-104-733/1. Includes three options, all of which are single life annuities.
24 January 2011: X signed his completed personal information form. This contained some 
information about his wife as well as himself. 
20 February 2011: X completed a form requesting both single and joint life quotes.
23 February 2011: Retirement Quote. Quote reference 296-410-816/2. Includes three 
options. Option 1 is a single life option. Option 2 and 3 are joint life options. 
28 February 2011: X completed a I want a retirement income with Aviva form, selecting 
Option 3. This form contained the Quote reference 614-104-733/1, relating to the January 
2011 pack and the single life annuity quoted in that pack. 
9 March 2011 Aviva sent X a set up letter for his chosen annuity. 
Both retirement packs were sent to the same address. 
Mrs B told this service that the first form that Aviva sent to her husband had one option for a 
single life annuity and two for a joint life annuity.  She said that Aviva had then sent her 
husband another quote with three options, all of which were for a single life annuity. She 
questioned why Aviva had only provided single life annuity quotes when her husband had 
requested both single and joint annuities. 
But, based on the timeline I outlined earlier, the first pack Aviva issued  in January 2011 - 
contained only single life options. The second pack Aviva issued - in February 2011 - 
contained both the single life and joint life options X had subsequently requested. 
Based on the evidence Ive now been provided with, Im satisfied that the first pack that 
Aviva sent to X was the one dated 13 January 2011, which included only single life options. 
After that, X provided personal information about himself and his wife and requested that 
both single and joint life options be provided. Aviva acted on this instruction and produced a 
second pack dated 23 February 2011. 
I next considered if theres any evidence that X directly asked Aviva to set up a joint life 
annuity. 
Did X ask Aviva to set up a joint life annuity?
Mrs B considers that X believed that the policy had been set up on a joint basis. She told this 
service that after the expiry of the 10 year guarantee shed called Aviva. She said the agent 
shed spoken to had told her that Aviva had received Xs request for a joint life annuity. She 
said the agent also told her that this had been given a policy number, but hadnt been 
registered. And that the agent had admitted that Aviva had made an error. 
Aviva told this service that the initial retirement options sent to the X only included single life 
options because the total pension was made up of non-protected rights. They said this 
meant a spouses pension wasnt compulsory. 
I asked Aviva if theyd received any request from X for a joint life quote other than on the 
form hed sent to them in February 2011. They said that they hadnt received any other 
request than that included on that form. And that this had caused them to issue a second 
quote pack which included both single life and joint life quotes on 24 February 2011.
I also asked Aviva if theyd allocated a policy number to any joint life request from X. They said they had not. But said that Mrs B had been given a client reference when shed called 
them to let them know her husband had died and the commencement of the guarantee 
period payments.
I also asked Aviva why their agent had told Mrs B that her husband had chosen an option 
which included a dependant. They shared their notes from the call, which they said took 
place in September 2020. They said that their agent had told Mrs B that X had: signed for 
an option that doesnt have spousal benefit on it. There were two quotations issued. 
Complaint logged.
Aviva also told this service that its common for people applying for an annuity to have 
multiple options and multiple illustrations. They said that was why their illustrations had a 
quote reference number, which is detailed at the bottom of each page. And that the 
declaration section contained tick boxes to select the option from the illustration and the 
quote reference number. They said that this allows the team setting up the annuity to set up 
the correct option from the correct quote. And that X had ticked option three on the 
illustration theyd issued in January 2011, asking them to set up a single life annuity. They 
said theyd also issued a confirmation of the set-up of that annuity, which had given X the 
option to cancel. They said that theyd followed Xs instructions and that he never challenged 
the set-up of the single life annuity.
From what Ive seen, the only evidence that X requested a joint life quote was on a form he 
sent to Aviva in February 2011. X ticked the boxes requesting quotes for both single and 
joint life annuities. 
I acknowledge that Mrs B considers that X had asked Aviva to set up a joint life annuity. She 
questioned why her husband wouldve provided her details on the personal information form 
if he was intending to buy a single life annuity. She considers that X provided Aviva with 
enough information for the annuity to have been set up on a joint basis. But from what Ive 
seen, the only time X requested a joint life quote was within the February 2011 form. This 
also requested single life quotes. So its clear that additional information wouldve been 
needed before X had specified exactly what annuity he wanted and before it could be set up. 
Aviva have also confirmed that X was always going to have to complete the retirement pack 
forms to get an annuity set up. So although Mrs B considers that X had already made his 
choice clear to Aviva  this couldnt be done just by sending in the personal information form. 
The only signed I want a retirement income with Aviva form I have evidence of is the one 
dated 28 February 2011. This form contained the Quote reference 614-104-733/1, relating to 
the January 2011 pack and the single life annuity quoted in that pack. Ive seen no evidence 
that X asked to purchase a joint life annuity. 
I acknowledge that Mrs B said that X had always assured her that she would receive half his 
pension. And I understand why she considers that he believed that the annuity had been set 
up on a joint life basis, given his heart condition. But Im not persuaded that Aviva are 
responsible for X choosing the single life option. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
when X submitted a request for both single and joint life quotes he hadnt yet decided what 
sort of annuity to buy. 
As our investigator noted, Xs annuity was set up on a non-advised basis. This meant that 
Aviva wasnt required to make a personal recommendation to X, but they did have to provide 
sufficient clear information to him - in a way that was fair and not misleading  so that he 
could make an informed choice when setting up his annuity.
Before Aviva had provided this service with the 23 February 2011 retirement pack, I had given some thought about whether the information Aviva provided to X was sufficient for him 
to have realised that they did offer joint life annuities, despite the fact that they hadnt done 
so, even though hed requested both single and joint life quotes. 
However, as Aviva have now provided evidence that a second quote was issued in February 
2011, and that it did provide the requested joint life quotes as well as a single life quote, Im 
satisfied that X was aware that joint life annuities were available with Aviva. I say this 
because after he requested a quote that included joint life annuities, it was provided, 
alongside a quote for a single life one. 
Right to cancel
Aviva said that they didnt feel that our investigator had considered that the retirement pack 
confirmed his right to cancel the annuity hed just selected and set up another option instead. 
It said:
If you want to cancel
Please remember, your retirement choice is important so you need to be sure you've got it 
right. Youre able to cancel for up to 30 days after youve received this letter. I've enclosed a 
form which you can use to tell us if you want to do this.
Our investigator considered Avivas point, but felt that X, as a layperson, wouldnt have 
understood that he hadnt received the quotes hed requested. Therefore she didnt feel he 
wouldve felt the need to use his cancellation rights.
However, it has now become clear that Aviva did, in fact, issue the joint life quotes X 
requested. And Im satisfied that Aviva gave X enough clear information in the retirement 
pack that he had the right to change his mind. 
After he received both the initial retirement pack in January 2011, and the second pack, 
containing joint life quotes, in February 2011, X completed the paperwork attached to the 
first pack and asked for the single life annuity shown under option three to be set up. While I 
acknowledge that Mrs B felt that X had intended to purchase a joint life pension, Ive not 
seen any documentary evidence of that. I have seen evidence that X asked for both single 
and joint life quotes AFTER he received the initial retirement pack which contained only 
single life quotes. And Ive also seen that X requested joint life quotes, as well a single life 
quote, after that. 
Aviva have acknowledged that they made a mistake, but Ive seen no evidence that they did. 
They were under no obligation to provide joint life quotes in the initial retirement pack. And 
they provided joint life quotes alongside a single life one after X requested them. From what 
Ive seen, X had all the information he needed to make an informed decision on the annuity 
he wanted to buy. And if he hadnt had all the information he needed, he couldve asked for 
further quotes to be produced. 
Therefore Im not persuaded that Aviva caused X to choose an incorrect annuity, or set up 
the wrong annuity. Ive seen no evidence that X ever requested a joint life annuity be set up. 
I know this will be extremely disappointing to the estate of X, but under the circumstances, it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to uphold the complaint about the set-up of the annuity.
However, I intend to ask Aviva to pay Mrs B compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve caused her by providing her with an incomplete, and sometimes 
incorrect, version of events. I consider that when they accepted that they hadnt issued a 
quote containing joint life options, this wouldve caused a great deal of confusion and mistrust from Mrs B. It wasnt true. She knew that X had received such a pack. But she 
thought hed received that pack first. 
Ive no evidence that X ever returned the forms from the February 2011 pack, so I dont 
consider that Aviva set up the wrong annuity. But I am persuaded that their poor response 
has led to further distress and inconvenience. Therefore I intend to uphold the complaint. 
And I intend to ask Aviva to pay The estate of X £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve caused. 
Response to my provisional decision 
Aviva accepted my decision.
Mrs B said that although she found my provisional decision depressing, it was what she was 
expecting. She acknowledged that there was no other evidence, apart from her own 
recollection, of the conversation shed had with Aviva in which she said shed been told her 
husband had chosen the joint life option. She maintained that her husband wouldve wanted 
her to get a pension. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mrs B still feels that her husband wanted her to share his pension. I 
understand why she feels this way. But Ive seen no evidence that he told Aviva this was 
what he wanted. 
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay The estate of X £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to pay The estate of X £300 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of X to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman