DRN-2203967
The complaint
Mr B complains that a fourth-year warranty purchase he made was never placed with the 
manufacturer and for this he would like Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) to fairly compensate him.
What happened
In June 2017 Mr B acquired a new car with an on the road price of £24,063.80 (inclusive of 
VAT). This price included £250 (inclusive of VAT) for a fourth-year warranty. £22,802.06 of 
the price was financed by way of a hire purchase agreement with VWFS.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who ultimately came to the view 
that it should be upheld and that VWFS should:
provide the fourth-year warranty cover that Mr B had purchased in June 2017 and 
which wasnt placed with the manufacturer
arrange for the air conditioning, which failed in July 2020 for a second time, to be 
repaired under warranty
pay Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
VWFS accepted the investigators view but Mr B didnt. Therefore, Mr Bs complaint has 
been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr B has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr B will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
It's not in dispute that Mr B purchased a fourth-year warranty and the same was never 
placed with the manufacturer. So, all Im required to decide here is what, if anything, VWFS 
should have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr B for this failure.
In my view to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr B VWFS should, amongst other things, 
provide the cover that Mr B purchased in lieu of the manufacturer doing so. Now I appreciate 
that Mr B has some reservations about such a remedy, but I cant see any reason why 
VWFS cant provide like for like cover when if there is any doubt as to what like for like cover 
might look like VWFS simply needs to liaise with the manufacturer.
Although providing like for like cover going forward  ending June 2021  will ensure any 
valid claims made by Mr B going forward will be met, this is not the end of the matter.
Mr B says the air conditioning failed for a second time in July 2020 and that he was required 
to pay £184.21 for another repair in December 2020, when the standard three-year warranty 
had expired. And that these two issues would have been covered by the fourth-year 
warranty and repaired under that warranty at no cost to him.
Now I dont know if the above two issues would have been covered under the fourth-year 
warranty Mr B purchased. But if they are, and this is something that VWFS can easily check, 
then I think its only fair that VWFS:
arrange for the air conditioning to be repaired at no cost to Mr B
refund Mr B the £184.21 he paid for the repair in December 2020
As well as the above I also think that Mr B should be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience he has been caused. Now in doing so Ive had regard to the fact that Mr B 
has been driving around in a car since July 2020 without air conditioning. But equally Ive 
had regard to the fact that Mr B could have got this repaired himself (and later sought 
recovery of the cost), that this wasnt a MOT test failure and that Mr Bs use of the car, by his 
own admission, had for at least some of the time since July 2020 been reduced to one day a 
fortnight due to the Covid Pandemic. 
Taking everything into account, including what I say above, I think that £100 represents an 
appropriate sum for VWFS to have to pay Mr B for distress and inconvenience.
Finally, I note that Mr B makes reference to section 22 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) and the rights this might give him.   
Im not sure that section 22 CRA helps Mr B. But I make no finding in this respect, nor do I 
need to. 
I would remind Mr B that although Im required, when considering a complaint, to take into 
account the relevant law, Im not bound by it. I only have to do whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. 
And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable, in the particular circumstances of this case, 
to direct VWFS to do anything more than I propose it do above given, amongst other things, 
the almost uninterrupted possession/use Mr B has had of the car for three and half years 
and the recorded mileage at the December 2020 MOT test.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must:
provide the fourth-year warranty cover that Mr B had purchased in June 2017 and 
which wasnt placed with the manufacturerarrange for the air conditioning, which failed in July 2020 for a second time, to be 
repaired at no cost to Mr B where the cost of repair would have been covered under 
the fourth-year warranty Mr B purchased in June 2017
refund Mr B the £184.21 paid for a repair undertaken in December 2020 where the 
cost of this would have been covered under the fourth-year warranty Mr B had 
purchased in June 2017
pay Mr B £100 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman