DRN-3685080
The complaint
Mr E complains Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Autonet) provided poor 
customer service when arranging his motor insurance cover.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr E agreed to take out a motor insurance policy arranged by Atlanta. 
However, he wasnt happy with the premium charged. He felt a claim had been unfairly 
taken into account when the premium was set.
Mr E complained to Atlanta. In December 2021 it responded. It said it was unable to set up a 
policy without the claim being considered as the relevant insurer had said the claim was still 
under consideration. It accepted it had provided some poor customer service by failing to call 
him back when agreed. In recognition of its mistake it provided a £40 premium discount.
In April 2022 Atlanta issued a second complaint response. It said it had, on receipt of 
evidence from the insurer that the claim was fictious, removed the record from his policy. It 
added it had arranged for an appropriate refund from the insurer. It said it considered it had 
done that   in reasonable time. Atlanta did apologise for not being clear about how long the 
process might take  it had said up to eight weeks rather than three. It paid him £25 
compensation in recognition. 
In June 2022 Atlanta responded to a further complaint from Mr E. It said it had, when setting 
up a new policy, failed to cancel his old one. This had resulted in the finance provider 
incorrectly attempting to take a payment. Atlanta said it had asked the finance company to 
remove any resulting credit markers. To recognise the inconvenience of this, and an error 
with a premium refund, it paid Mr E £50 compensation. 
Mr E wasnt satisfied with Atlantas responses.  In summary he felt hed been overcharged 
for cover because of unfair claim records. He wanted those to be removed and to be paid 
more compensation.
In August 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. She didnt think Atlanta had 
offered enough compensation to recognise the impact of unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it had caused Mr E. So she recommended it pay him £300 in total. Mr E 
replied to say that wasnt enough. Atlanta didnt respond. As the complaint wasnt resolved it 
was referred to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr E and Atlanta have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key 
or central to the complaint. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
Im satisfied Atlanta acted reasonably when taking into account a disputed November 2020 
claim record. At the time the policy was being arranged it had been advised by the insurer 
the claim was open.  It also acted fairly and reasonably in response to being informed of the 
claim being closed. It removed record and requested a refund from the insurer in reasonable 
time. 
According to Mr E, hes been unfairly charged higher premiums for his cover because of 
unfair records of claims. In this complaint against Atlanta I can consider its actions  not 
those of any other firm, for example any insurers reporting claims for Mr E. Im not 
persuaded that Atlantas done anything wrong that resulted in unfair premiums for him. As it 
acted fairly based on the information it had access to. As Ive said Im satisfied it considered 
the disputed claim fairly. 
Other claims are shown on Mr Es policy documents  from September 2017, May 2020 and 
July 2021. I havent been provided with anything to persuade me Atlantas made a mistake 
with any of these records. So Im not going to require it to take any steps to amend his policy 
documentation.
Mr E feels Atlanta should have been more involved in proving the November 2021 claim to 
be fraudulent. But I wouldnt expect an intermediary, like Atlanta, to do that. Thats 
something for the insurer providing the policy. 
Atlantas accepted it failed to cancel Mr Es original policy. It admits this led to the finance 
provider incorrectly attempting to take a payment from Mr E in early May 2022. I can see the 
money has already been returned. Im pleased to see Atlanta requested the lender remove 
any resulting credit marker.   
Our investigator said Atlanta hadnt explained why the finance provider attempted to collect 
£228 from Mr E in late May 2022. However, I can see the finance provider has taken 
responsibility for that  paying compensation for its mistake. So Im not going to consider the 
impact of that payment collection on Mr E in this complaint against Atlanta.
As I see it Atlanta, in the round, has provided Mr E with the equivalent of £115 compensation 
- £75 in cash and £40 premium discount. Our investigator felt £300 in total would be a fairer 
amount to recognise the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it had caused him. Mr E 
feels thats not enough - he would like £800. 
I agree that Atlanta has made some mistakes  and these have had an impact on Mr E in 
terms of inconvenience and distress. But I can only take into account the impact of issues I 
feel Atlanta was at fault for. As Ive set out, I havent upheld a number of Mr Es complaint 
points.    
I can see that the failure to cancel Mr Es policy resulted in some distress and inconvenience 
for him. He was concerned about the impact on his employment of having his policy 
cancelled for non-payment of premium. He understandably wasnt aware the threat was 
about his previous policy. 
I can see, for the problems Atlanta was responsible for, that he had the inconvenience of 
making a number of calls  including to his own bank. Taking everything, including the 
impact of all this on Mr Es reported health conditions, into account I agree that a total of 
£300 would be a fairer amount of compensation. So Atlanta will need to pay him an 
additional £185.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr E an 
additional £185 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman