DRN-3879905
The complaint
Mr U complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) dealt with a claim on his motor 
insurance. References to esure include other organisations and individuals acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
Mr U had motor insurance with esure. His car was involved in an accident and he made a 
claim. Esure arranged for the car to be taken to one of its recommended repairers. Mr U is 
unhappy about this as he says he wanted the car repaired elsewhere. When the car was 
returned to him, Mr U was unhappy with the repairs and said the car wasnt handling 
properly. The recommended repairer did some extra work and also had the car checked by 
the main dealership. Following this check, esure said the problems Mr U had identified 
werent related to the accident. 
Mr U wasnt happy with this and complained to esure. Esure said it had sent Mr U an email 
explaining that the recommended repairer would collect the car and carry out the repairs. 
Esure said it was satisfied that the handling issues werent related to the claim. However 
esure acknowledged that there had been rectification work required to the bodywork and 
apologised and paid Mr U £100 in recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
Mr U wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. She said on the same day the claim was raised, esure emailed Mr U to 
let him know the name of the recommended repairer and she couldnt see that hed asked to 
use an alternative repairer. She also said shed reviewed the report provided by the main 
dealership and could see it was confirmed the issue with the car wasnt linked to the 
accident. She said shed looked at the timeline of events and could see esure were keeping 
Mr U updated with the progress of his claim. She said esure had also passed his complaint 
regarding the repairs over to the recommended repairer to look into, when some issues were 
rectified. She noted that esure said Mr U hadnt contacted it again after this about the 
standard of the repairs.
Mr U wasnt happy with what the investigator said so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr U wants esure to compensate him the pre-accident value of his vehicle, improve their 
systems to make communication with clients better, apologise for the delays in his claim and 
compensate him for the ongoing stress and time spent trying to hold them to account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Us complaint. Ill explain why. 
My role is to look at whether esure handled Mr Us claim in a fair and reasonable way. Its 
not my role to tell esure how to communicate with its consumers. So I cant look at Mr Us 
request for esure to improve its communication systems. I can look at the other issues he 
has raised.
Mr Us car insurance policy booklet said:
Our recommended repairer service 
if the repairs to your car are completed by a repairer who is not recommended by us, your 
claim will be subject to an additional £200 policy excess and none of the recommended 
repairer benefits will be available.
And:
Damage to your carWhat is covered
 All loss and damage to your car unless it's by fire, lightening, explosion, theft or attempted 
theft. We will:
 pay to repair the damage or
 replace what's been lost or damaged if it's more cost effective than repairing it: or
 pay to settle your claim.
And:
Things you need to know
We will decide which method we use to settle your claim.
On the same day the claim was logged, esure sent Mr U an email which said:
Thank you for reporting your incident.
Repairs
We have instructed [recommended repairer] to contact you about arranging the collection of 
your vehicle for the repairs to be completed.
They will be in touch with you shortly. If you do not receive a call from them you can contact 
them directly on (phone number).
I cannot see that Mr U contacted esure asking for the car to be repaired elsewhere. Esure 
has told us at no point did Mr U ask about using his own repairer. Esure said it would have 
been more than happy to accommodate this if he had requested it.
With reference to the issues Mr U raised with the repairs, esures claim notes say:
Update from garage Vehicle booked back in [date] to get the repair issue rectified then the 
car will be sent to the dealer to have the issue with the engine inspected as to whether it 
relates to the claim damage or mechanical wear and tear.
And:
Confirmed update from garage
Bodywork rectification completeService inspection completed by [main dealership]...
All issues unrelated to the claim damage and ruled out by the dealer.
The main dealership report said:
Proposed work is not linked to the accident repair in any way.
On balance I think esure dealt with Mr Us claim fairly and reasonably. So I wont be asking 
esure to compensate Mr U the pre-accident value of his vehicle. I note that esure has 
already apologised to Mr U for the issues it identified with the repairs and compensated him 
for the inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Us complaint. So I wont be asking esure 
Insurance Limited to do anything.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman