DRN-4261010
The complaint
Mrs D complains that a car acquired with finance from NIIB Group Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs D was supplied with a brand-new car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with NIIB.
In August 2021 Mrs D experienced issues with the engine. The car was returned to the 
supplying dealer for repairs under warranty.
Mrs D experienced further issues with the car in April 2022 and December 2022. The car 
was returned to the supplying dealer for repairs under warranty.
Mrs D has told this service that the dealership took a long time to complete the repairs and 
that she was left without a car or provided with a courtesy car which wasnt suitable for her 
needs, for several weeks at a time.
Mrs D raised a complaint with NIIB in January 2023. She said the car had gone to the 
dealership in early December 2022 and still hadnt been returned to her. Mrs D said the car 
had been back to the dealership seven times in 2022 for the same issue (cylinder misfire 
fault code) and that in 2021 the head gasket had been replaced. Mrs D said she didnt think 
the car was of satisfactory quality and asked to reject it.
Mrs D didnt receive a response from NIIB so she brought her complaint to this service.
NIIB told this service that it hadnt issued a final response because it had been waiting for 
confirmation that the car had been repaired to Mrs Ds satisfaction. It said it didnt think it 
could be held responsible for the matters raised in Mrs Ds complaint because of the time 
and mileage which had passed at the time when the issues arose.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence that the issues 
with the car had been present or developing at the point of supply, and that there wasnt 
enough evidence to suggest that there was a durability issue.
Mrs D didnt agree. She said that major issues had arisen with the engine in August 2021 
which was only 21 months after the car had been supplied to her. She also said shed been 
told by the dealership that the car wasnt old enough to be having engine problems of this 
sort.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mrs D was brand new. So Id expect it to be of a high standard and to be 
free from faults for a reasonable period of time.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs within 6 months of the point of 
supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its 
generally up to the business to put thigs right. The business is allowed one opportunity to 
repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car.
Under the same legislation, where a fault occurs outside of the first 6 months after the point 
of supply, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault 
was present or developing at the point of supply.
In this case, I would need to be satisfied that the faults with the car were present at the point 
of supply or that the faults suggested that there was a durability issue with the car.
Ive reviewed the available evidence about the issues which Mrs D experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car has faults. This isnt disputed by the 
parties. Ive seen evidence that the faults have been repaired by the dealership under 
warranty.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
The car was brand new when it was supplied to Mrs D. Mrs D has told this service that she 
first experienced issues with the engine in August 2021 which was around 21 months after 
she got the car. Ive seen a copy of an invoice dated 30 November 2021 which states that 
there was coolant in the exhaust system. The cylinder head was replaced. At this point the 
car had covered around 33,537 miles.
Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into consideration. And although I understand the 
point which Mrs D makes about why the mileage is high, Im not persuaded that the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply. I say this because the fault was a coolant leak 
which caused issues with the performance of the car. Theres no evidence to suggest that 
the car had poor performance prior to August 2021. If the fault had been present at the point 
of supply, I dont think Mrs D would have been able to drive the car for 21 months and cover 
the mileage that she did.
Further issues occurred in 2022. Ive seen a copy of an invoice dated 29 April 2022 which 
shows that the engine management light was illuminated due to a  faulty O2 sensor. Ive also 
seen a copy of an invoice dated 11 October 2022 which shows that the injectors and spark 
plugs were replaced.
Theres no evidence to suggest that there were issues with the O2 sensor or the injectors 
and spark plugs at the point of supply. If there were faults with these component parts at the 
point of supply, I dont think Mrs D would have been able to drive the car for the length of 
time she did and cover the mileage she did.
I appreciate that Mrs D doesnt think the car shouldve had engine problems when it was less 
than 2 years old. Ive thought about whether there is sufficient evidence to say that the car 
wasnt durable. On balance, Im not persuaded that the car wasnt sufficiently durable. I 
understand that it can be frustrating when things go wrong with a car but in the circumstances of this case, I think its reasonable to expect that a car which has covered 
around 33,000 miles is likely to have some faults commensurate with its age and mileage.
Taking everything into account, there isnt enough evidence for me to say that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, or that the car wasnt sufficiently durable. So I 
wont be asking NIIB to do anything further.
Mrs D has expressed concern at the length of time shes been without the car because of 
the length of time its taken to complete repairs. Whilst I acknowledge that the repairs do 
seem to have taken a long time, this isnt something I can fairly hold NIIB responsible for. 
But it would be open to Mrs D to raise a complaint with the dealership directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman