DRN-3118862
The complaint
  Mr V has complained that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
  Likely Loans provided Mr V with three fixed sum loans. The details are as follows:
Loan Date Amount Months Monthly amount Total repayment
1 06.03.2016 £2000.00 24 £145.16 £3483.84
2 14.09.2017 £2751.38 30 £179.29 £5378.70
3 01.06.2018 £3919.90 30 £255.44 £7663.20
Mr V made 19 repayments on loan 1. He then took out loan 2 and used part of the 
capital to repay the outstanding balance of the first loan. He then made a further 9 
repayments on loan 2 before taking out loan 3. He used part of loan 3 to repay the 
outstanding balance on loan 2. He then made no repayments on loan 3 and there is an 
outstanding balance still left to repay. This debt has since been passed to a third party.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Likely Loans has told our service that it asked Mr V about his annual income and carried 
out a credit search when it agreed to lend on each occasion. It says it also asked Mr V 
about his expenditure before loan 1 was agreed. It collated an overall assessment of Mr 
Vs credit that it called a credit risk data overview that it said helped it to make a 
decision to lend on each occasion.
For loan 1, based on the information Mr V told Likely Loans about his income and outgoings 
and what it had in front of it regarding its credit search data, on balance, I dont think it wasnt 
wrong for it to lend to him. The loan was to be repaid over a relatively long period of time, but 
it was early in the lending relationship and given the loan amount and the information Likely 
Loans had recorded for Mr V, I think the checks were enough for Likely Loans to agree to 
lend. 
Likely Loans again gathered some information from Mr V before it agreed a second loan. It 
asked him for details of his annual income, but it doesnt appear to have gathered 
information about his expenditure. And it again says it carried out a credit search. But it has 
only been able to provide us with a high-level summary of the information it received from 
the credit check.
At this stage I think it would have become apparent that Mr V was entering into his second 
significant commitment with Likely Loans. He would need to make monthly repayments for a 
period of two and a half years. So, I would expect that Likely Loans would want
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Vs financial
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I dont think that the checks it did were
enough. It isnt entirely clear whether Mr V declared that he had no expenditure, or
whether Likely Loans failed to record his answer or even ask about it. But I think that would
have been key information when deciding whether to lend to him. So, I dont think the checks 
Likely Loans did before agreeing the second loan were proportionate.
But although I dont think the checks Likely Loans did before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, that in itself doesnt mean that Mr Vs complaint should succeed. Id also need to 
be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown Likely 
Loans that Mr V couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So, Ive considered the 
information that is likely to have been gathered by Likely Loans if it had carried out 
proportionate checks.
Mr V has recently provided bank statements from a few weeks before and leading up to 
when the second loan was granted. I think this would give me an indication as to what Likely 
loans more likely than not would have found out if it had carried out sufficient checks.
I have had a look through statements for July and August 2017. I can see that he was 
making repayments to a short-term finance provider. He had also had a couple of direct 
debits that went unpaid and he had to pay a fee for this. But other than that, Mr V seemed to 
keep his account in good order during this time. There were no other indications that he was 
having problems managing his finances. So, based on what I have seen here, on balance, if 
Likely Loans had carried out proportionate checks, I think it would have lent the second loan 
to Mr V anyway. 
Mr V took out loan 3 on 1st June 2018. Again, I dont think Likely Loans carried out 
proportionate checks when it agreed to this loan for much the same reasons as I gave 
for loan 2. It didnt record down any expenditure figure and I think it would have expected 
it to have carried out more detailed checks at this stage. However, I havent needed to 
look at what it would have found out if it had carried out proportionate checks. This is 
because I am looking to uphold Mr Vs complaint about this loan anyway. Having looked 
at the overall history and pattern of lending, by the time of Loan 3, Likely Loans ought 
reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Vs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
I say this because:
By the time Mr V was asking for loan 3 he had been borrowing from Likely Loans for 
around 27 months with no breaks in between each loan. He had repaid most of loan 
1 and then asked for loan 2, refinancing a proportion of loan 1 and did this again 
when he asked for loan 3;
Mr V wasnt making any inroads to the amounts he owed Likely Loans. The 
amounts he was asking for had increased from loan 1 to loan 3;
Mr V had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Likely Loans 
over an extended period;
I think, the presence of these high cost loans on Mr Vs credit file was likely to have had 
implications for Mr Vs ability to access mainstream credit. 
So, with all I have concluded above, I dont think Likely Loans as a responsible lender 
should have given Mr V loan 3.
I am currently minded to conclude that Likely Loans should not have given Mr V loan 3 and it 
should now put things right.I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr V responded and had no new points to make but did 
summarise his complaint again. He also added that he had made payments on his 
outstanding balance on loan 3 with the third party that the debt was passed to. Likely 
Loans have not responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V has not made any new points and Likely Loans has not responded. So, as neither 
party has anything further to add that I need to comment on, I dont see any reason to 
depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, Likely 
Loans now needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
  I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr V to repay the principal amount that he borrowed for 
loan 3, because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has been indebted with 
interest and charges on lending that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
I understand the loan was sold on to a third party. This third party has then subsequently 
taken court action and obtained a County Court Judgement (CCJ) relating to the loan that 
shouldnt have been provided to Mr V. So Likely Loans should do the following: 
It should work with the third party to remove the CCJ
Work with the third party to remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and 
treat all the payments Mr V made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Vs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Likely Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Work with the third party to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Vs 
credit file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Likely Loans 
should give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Vs complaint and direct Oakbrook Finance Limited t/a 
Likely Loans to put things right as described above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman