DRN-3168312
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund £5,750 he 
lost when he was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
What Mr M says
Mr M says that in May 2021 Ms S, Mr Ms partner, made a purchase on an online 
marketplace using Mr Ms card. Mr M then received a text message from a delivery company 
saying he needed to pay a redelivery charge, so Mr M followed the link and made the 
payment. The parcel arrived that evening. 
A few days later Mr M received a call on his mobile. As he was having physiotherapy at the 
time Mr M passed his phone to Ms S and asked her to handle the call. The caller explained 
that the redelivery charge text was part of a scam and asked to speak to Mr M. Mr M was 
told the caller was from the fraud department of Halifax and he was asked security 
questions. The caller then told Mr M that the details hed provided when he made the 
payment to the fake delivery company had been used in an attempt to make a high-value 
purchase. Mr M asked Ms S to deal with the call after that.
Ms S was told a new account needed to be set up and that she should make three separate 
transfers to account details provided to her by the caller to keep Mr Ms money safe. The first 
payment of £5,750 was to the account of a named individual. Ms S was aware at the time 
that the account she was transferring to was not a Halifax account. She questioned this and 
the caller told Ms S that Halifax have security accounts with the other bank and that Mr Ms 
new Halifax account hadnt been set up yet. Although she was uneasy about making the 
payment, Ms S went ahead because the caller sounded professional and convincing. Also, 
Mr M was asking Ms S to sort the matter out and she was concerned about her son who was 
experiencing some problems whilst on holiday. 
Ms S was asked to make two further payments, one to her own account and another to a 
different account. Both of these payments were blocked by Halifax. The caller then asked Ms 
S to call Halifax to unblock the last payment and to lie to Halifax about the reason for the 
payment. At this point Ms S realised it was a scam and told Mr M about the payment and 
called the real Halifax. Mr M and Ms S experienced problems getting through to Halifax and 
were passed to various departments. They were so frustrated that they visited a Halifax 
branch. Overall, Mr M and Ms S say it took five hours to report the scam. 
Mr M would like Halifax to refund the scam payment. He believes that had Halifax provided a 
better service it could have recovered his funds. 
What Halifax say
Halifax considered whether to provide Mr M with a refund under the provisions of the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). It decided that it provided an effective 
warning at the time the successful payment was made that Ms S/Mr M ignored and that Ms 
S/Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis to believe the caller was genuine. In the 
circumstances, Halifax said no refund was due under the CRM Code.
Halifax noted that Mr M was unable to get through to it to report the scam for too long and 
that he was transferred to incorrect departments which caused further delays. In recognition 
of these factors Halifax paid £50 in to Mr Ms account.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, she said that the CRM Code doesnt apply because although Mr M asked Ms S to 
deal with the call and gave her access to his account he didnt consent to a specific payment 
as required by the Code. The investigator went on to consider whether Halifax could have 
prevented the payment from being made. She concluded that the payment wasnt so 
unusual that Halifax should have flagged it. In terms of the customer service provided by 
Halifax, the investigator said that Mr M shouldnt have had to wait so long to report the scam. 
But she noted that the funds transferred in the scam were removed from the account they 
were sent to within two minutes of the transfer, so by the time Mr M realised hed been 
scammed the funds had already been removed. The investigator felt Halifaxs offer of £50 for 
the lengthy wait time and poor service was reasonable.
Mr M, didnt agree with the investigator. He said the investigator reached the wrong outcome 
and that the £3,527.84 payment he made shortly before the scam was to a government 
department not an individual so should be considered differently. 
I reviewed the complaint and agreed with the investigators overall outcome but felt Halifax 
hadnt treated Mr M well when he tried to report the scam. I asked Halifax to reconsider its 
offer solely in respect of the service provided and Halifax agreed to pay an additional £150 
compensation. The investigator put this offer to Mr M, who, through Ms S, rejected it - so I 
am issuing my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Ive considered the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement
Model (the CRM Code), which Halifax has committed to follow and was in force at the time 
Ms S, on behalf of Mr M, made the payment to the scammer. Under the Code, the starting 
principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an authorised push 
payment (APP) scam where (amongst other things), The Customer transferred funds to 
another person for what they believed were legitimate purposes but were in fact fraudulent. 
But the Code also says,
An authorised push payment will include where, as part of giving consent for a specific 
payment, a Customer shares access to their personal security credentials or allows access 
to their banking systems such as online platforms or banking apps for that payment to be 
made.
So, for me to say that the payment Mr M made (or Ms S made with Mr Ms security 
credentials) is covered by the Code, I need to be satisfied that Mr M gave consent for the 
specific payment of £5,750 to the relevant payee. Im not persuaded Mr M gave consent for 
a specific payment to be made and so Ive concluded that the CRM Code doesnt apply to 
this case. This means I cant recommend a refund under the CRM Code. I say this because 
although Mr M gave Ms S access to his account and probably gave consent to make a payment or payments, he didnt know how much was being paid to whom  so he didnt give 
specific consent as required by the CRM Code. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Halifax should refund Mr M for any other reason. In broad 
terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that 
into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr M when the payment was made or whether it should have done more than it did. I have 
considered the position carefully.
Did Halifax act fairly and reasonably when it made the payment?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Halifax should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment request Mr M made was unusual or uncharacteristic. Halifax blocked 
the second and third payments so Im only considering its actions in respect of the first 
payment.  
Having considered Mr Ms account activity in the 12-month period before the scam I agree 
with the investigator the scam payment wasnt unusual or uncharacteristic and so I wouldnt 
expect Halifax to flag it or ask Mr M any questions about it. I say this for a number of 
reasons. Mr M made a payment of £3,527.84 by bank transfer around two months before the 
scam payment. So he had used the same method of payment to send a similar sum of 
money shortly before the scam payment. The scam payment also left Mr M with a balance of 
over £7,000 and confirmation of payee showed that the account Mr M was paying was in the 
name of the payee given. Given these points, I dont believe the scam payment would have 
stood out to Halifax as potentially fraudulent.  
Ive considered Ms Ss point that the payment of £3,527.84 wasnt to an individual. I accept 
this, but in determining if a payment request is unusual or suspicious, I need to take in to 
account all previous genuine transactions from Mr Ms account. 
Recovery of funds
Mr M tried to report the fraud to Halifax soon after the payment was made but it took him 
some hours to get through. Halifax contacted the bank that received the funds on the same 
day but was told that no funds remained. Ive considered what would have happened if Mr M 
had been able to report the scam when he first called Halifax to see if funds would have 
been available to return to him. But the evidence I have seen from the beneficiary bank shows the funds were used up within a few minutes of reaching the account. Scammers 
often do this to eliminate the possibility of funds being recovered. So I cant reasonably 
conclude that had Mr M been able to contact Halifax sooner the outcome would be any 
different. 
Service provided
I consider Mr M was put under additional stress and was inconvenienced by having to make 
numerous calls and attend a Halifax branch at a time that was already difficult for him. It 
should not have taken him hours to report the scam. I consider Halifaxs offer to pay an 
additional £150 compensation (making a total of £200) to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. 
Overall
Im sorry Mr M has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept hes been the victim of 
a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Halifax responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax 
should pay Mr M £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman