DRN-2794379
The complaint
Mr C complains that hes been overpaying for his private medical insurance cover with 
BUPA Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr C held cover under a BUPA group scheme from 1982 (Ill call this Policy A).
In 2020, Mr C obtained a quote from BUPA for another policy (Ill call this Policy B). This 
was cheaper than the premium hed been paying for Policy A. Unhappy with this, Mr C made 
a complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the onus had been 
on Mr C to check that the cover under Policy A had remained appropriate for him. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says he thinks Policy A was mis-sold to him because of the difference in cost between 
Policy A and Policy B. However, as I understand it, Policy B was only launched by BUPA in 
2011. BUPA wasnt required to notify existing policyholders that it had launched a new 
product.
BUPA has provided the membership certificates sent to Mr C in advance of his annual 
renewal date, for most years after 2010. This sets out the cover provided to Mr C under 
Policy A, and included his renewal price. Im satisfied from this that BUPA gave Mr C 
sufficient information each year for him to decide whether or not the cover remained suitable 
for him.
The renewal information also gave BUPAs contact details for Mr C to call if he wanted to 
discuss his renewal. I think Mr C couldve contacted BUPA if he was unhappy with his 
renewal price or cover, and it couldve looked into this for him to see if he was able to take 
out cheaper cover under another product.
Mr C is unhappy with the difference between the cost of Policy A and Policy B. He says 
Policy A was meant to provide good value for employees.
This service generally takes the view that its up to an insurer to decide how much to charge 
for its policies. So long as it exercises that judgment fairly and consistently, its a matter in 
which this service normally wouldnt interfere.
I note that under Policy A, Mr C received a discount each year because of an agreement 
BUPA had in place with his employer. BUPA has confirmed that if Mr C had held that policy 
without being covered under the group scheme, then those discounts wouldnt have applied. 
Mr Cs main concern though is that he was able to take out an individual policy with BUPA, 
and pay less than he was paying under the group scheme. 
BUPA has explained the various factors that impacted the difference in price between Policy 
A and Policy B. One of those factors was that Policy B had a no claims discount (NCD) of 
65% applied at the outset. 
As BUPA has explained, although the NCD was set at 65% when Mr C took out the policy, 
this could decrease with claims made, which would result in a higher premium.
Overall, Im satisfied that BUPA has provided a reasonable explanation for the difference in 
premiums between the two products. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman