DRN-3283172
The complaint
Mrs W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt allow her access to the money 
in her business deposit account.
What happened
Mrs W gave the required period of 35 days notice to transfer £75,000 from a deposit 
account on 6 May 2021. But the money wasnt transferred to another account as she 
requested. She didnt have access to this money until 10 September 2021.
NatWest offered to pay Mrs W £500 for the inconvenience caused. The form giving notice 
hadnt been correctly filled in and it hadnt told her this. It accepted she had to make a 
number of calls to access the money. It pointed out that at the time it submitted its business 
file the money remained in her reserve account. And so, it couldnt see that Mrs W had 
needed to use it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that NatWest do anything more that it had offered to. He 
had looked at the information Mrs W had provided from her financial advisor about investing 
money. But this was dated 14 September 2021 and there was nothing to show that shed 
intended to invest the money when it ought to have been available in June 2021. The 
compensation was reasonable, and we wouldnt consider hypothetical losses or make a 
punitive award.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said that she wasnt looking to punish anyone. She had approached 
the financial advisor about putting the money into investments at the start. And the money 
remains in the account as she is now seeking to use this as a deposit for a property. It is a 
large sum of money that took time to save and it was to be moved because she wasnt 
happy with the interest rates. She made clear she hadnt had to fill in another form: she had 
sent a copy of the original to the complaints department.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs W wrote to NatWest on 30 June 2021 to ask why the money hadnt been 
transferred and explains she had also called about this. NatWests case file shows it opened 
a complaint on 13 July 2021. Mrs W had ongoing involvement including with branch staff 
before the money became available. The form was incorrectly completed, and NatWest 
accepted it and didnt query this with Mrs W.
Mrs W wants compensation for financial loss. She explains that she had at one point 
intended to purchase a property at auction, but this proved too expensive. She then intended 
to use this money as a deposit for another property but was waiting for planning permission. 
This has been granted much more quickly then she expected and so the money has 
remained in her business reserve account at NatWest. She has provided information from 
her financial advisor showing that between April and September 2021 her investments 
increased by over seven percent. And she had discussions about further investments.
The situation has clearly changed over the period and there were a number of unpredictable 
factors. The value of any investments could have equally gone down, and any return would 
depend on the date of investment and any later sale. And Mrs W now has left the money in 
the account for a specific purpose and not decided say to invest this on a short-term basis. 
Im afraid Im not persuaded that shes made a tangible financial loss as a result of the delay 
in the transfer of the money. Or that it would be reasonable in the circumstances to consider 
any potential or hypothetical loss.
Having made that finding I need to consider the distress and inconvenience caused. Ive 
taken account of everything thats been provided and our published guidance about 
compensation. Having done so I consider that the offer made by NatWest is a reasonable 
one and I wont be requiring it to do anything more than this.
I appreciate Mrs W will be disappointed by my conclusions.
My final decision
NatWest has made an offer to pay Mrs W £500 to settle this complaint which I think is 
reasonable in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc 
pay Mrs W £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman