DRN-3813780
The complaint
The Estate of Mr G complains that AIG Life Limited declined his claim and unwound the 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G had term assurance with AIG. The policy was taken out in February 2019 however, in 
October 2020, Mr G sadly passed away. The estate brings the complaint about AIGs 
decision to decline Mr Gs claim and to effectively unwind the policy. The estate would like 
AIG to pay the claim of £50,000.
AIG said it took this action because Mr G had mis-represented his medical history. It said Mr 
G failed to answer its pre-screening questions carefully and that had it known about Mr Gs 
medical history, it wouldnt have offered him a policy. AIG felt the misrepresentation was 
deliberate, however, it agreed to unwind the policy and return the premiums itd collected.
Our investigator thought this was fair. She explained that AIGs pre-screening questions 
were clear and that she was persuaded Mr G provided incorrect answers during the 
application process. She was satisfied AIG wouldnt have provided cover had it known about 
Mr G having heart-related problems and being under the care of a cardiologist prior to taking 
the policy. But the estate disagreed. In summary, it said Mr G was unaware that he suffered 
with heart-related issues, including a mild aortic stenosis with a calcified valve. And so, its 
for me to make a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too have decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same 
as those already explained by our investigator. Im satisfied Mr G mis-represented his 
medical history because of the incorrect answers given to the clear questions asked by AIG. 
Ill go on to explain why, but before I do, I wanted to acknowledge the sad circumstances 
surrounding this complaint and offer my condolences to Mr Gs family. 
The Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Misrepresentation Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out the 
actions available to insurers when consumers misrepresent their medical history. I know the 
estate is already aware of the act, but I wanted to reaffirm that Ive considered this in line 
with the action taken by AIG. 
Mr G was asked a series of questions before AIG provided life cover. However, Im satisfied 
Mr G didnt provide accurate answers to these questions. To be clear, the questions were;
Do you currently have or have you ever had any of the following:
Q - heart abnormality or heart valve disease
(Examples of heart abnormalities or heart valve disease can include but are not limited to 
coronary artery disease, cardiomyopathy, atrial fibrillation, valve narrowing (stenosis) or 
heart valve regurgitation (a leaky valve)).
Q - Have you received or been advised to have any medical investigations, scans or blood 
tests in the last 5 years?
(You do not need to tell us about common colds, contraception prescriptions, cold sores, ear 
syringing, hay fever, holiday jabs, in growing toenails, influenza, tonsillitis, wisdom teeth or 
regular well-man/woman checks where the results were all normal. You also do not need to 
tell us about normal pregnancies and childbirth but must let us know about pregnancies with 
complications including but not limited to high blood pressure and sugar and/or protein in 
your urine.)
Q - Have you been referred to, or been to see, any medical practitioner other than your GP 
in the last 5 years?
(Examples can include but are not limited to all visits to a hospital doctor, consultant, 
psychiatrist, therapist or other visit to a clinic or Accident and Emergency.)
Mr G answered no to these questions, but having carefully considered his medical history, 
Im satisfied with AIGs argument that he should have answered yes. I say that because I 
note Mr G had seen a doctor/specialist four times in July 2018 because of shortness of 
breath, chest pain and cardio-related problems. Mr G was referred for specialist care and 
received advice about his mild aortic stenosis with calcified aortic valve. The specialists 
notes say this was discussed and that Mr G was told hed be reviewed in six months time. 
And so, Im satisfied this should have been declared to the insurer. I note the arguments 
about Mr G perhaps being unaware of the health problems identified in July 2018, but I 
should highlight the cardiologists notes specifically say this was discussed with Mr G. 
I should also say that Mr G received an ECG and an ECHO when he attended hospital for 
shortness of breath and chest pain and so even if I thought Mr G was unaware of the other 
issues surrounding his heart, he should have answered yes to the other questions. Because 
he didnt, Im satisfied his health was misrepresented and AIG has interpreted the medical 
evidence fairly. 
AIG said had it known about these instances, then it would not have offered Mr G an 
insurance policy. Im satisfied thats correct because Ive seen retrospective screening which 
shows AIG would not have insured Mr G. AIG believes Mr G deliberately mis-represented 
his medical history and under CIDRA, its entitled to retain the premiums paid. However, I 
note it returned the premiums to Mrs G and so its effectively treated this as a careless 
mistake, rather than a deliberate one and I think thats fair.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman