DRN-4484037
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Curve UK Limited (Curve) made changes to his Curve accounts.
To resolve this complaint, Mr A would like Curve to refund the transaction fees hes incurred; 
refund half of the Curve Metal annual subscription; and commit to putting in place a system, 
in a reasonable timeframe, which enables him to track how much of the Curve Fronted limit 
hes used.
What happened
Mr A has a Curve account, which allows him to make payments with a Curve debit card and 
then select which third party debit or credit card he would like the payment to be taken from. 
This facility includes a feature called Curve Fronted, that allows account holders to indirectly 
use a credit card via the Curve account, to make payments to organisations that dont 
normally accept credit cards. 
Initially Curve Fronted payments didnt incur any fees, but this was subsequently changed. 
This change resulted in Mr A being charged 1.5% on Curve Fronted transactions on his 
existing Curve account. To avoid these fees, Mr A upgraded his account to the Curve Metal 
account  whereby Curve Fronted payments didnt incur the 1.5% fee. However, a while 
later Curve introduced a Curve Fronted limit of £10,000 each month on the Metal account  
which meant any Curve Fronted payments that exceeded this amount would incur a 1.5% 
fee. 
Mr A has explained hes unhappy with the changes made to his account. He says that such 
significant changes represent a breach of contract. Mr A says that because of this, any fees 
hes incurred are unfair. Mr A also says that he finds them almost impossible to avoid. 
Mr A says that the current way the Curve app is designed means hes unable to establish 
how much of the £10,000 Curve Fronted monthly limit hes used. When hes contacted 
Curves online support facility, the representatives dont appear to fully understand the 
charging structure which has led to incorrect information being provided to him.
One of our investigators assessed the complaint and they didnt uphold the complaint. 
As Mr A didnt accept the investigators assessment, the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont uphold the complaint, for largely the same reasons that 
the investigator gave. I will explain why.
Mr A has complained, in part, that Curves changes made to its products represents a 
breach of contract. However, as the investigator pointed out, Curves terms and conditions 
allow it to make such changes immediately if they are in the account holders favour, or if 
they are not, by providing 2 months notice. 
We have been provided evidence to show that Mr A was being informed of the changes 
being made to his account. For example, Mr A was sent an email on 25 November 2019 
explaining that Curve will start charging a 1.5% fee on Curve Fronted Government-based 
payments. This email explained the fees will come into effect after 24 January 2020. So Im 
satisfied that Curve gave Mr A the necessary notice before this change came into effect. 
Curve then sent an email to Mr A on 24 April 2020 explaining that, due to the costs involved 
in processing Curve Fronted payments, the 1.5% fee will also apply when paying off credit 
card bills using the Curve Fronted feature. It explained that the fee would not apply to Curve 
Metal customers.  
Based on the evidence I have seen, it seems this change took place on 24 April 2020, and 
Ive not seen that any prior notice was given (specifically about the 1.5% fee also applying to 
Curve Fronted payments to credit card providers). Nevertheless, Curves terms and 
conditions say that it may not always be able to provide two months notice when making 
changes to the account terms and conditions. The terms and conditions say that, if account 
holders are not given 2 months notice of changes, account holders can cancel their account 
free of charge within 2 months of the change being implemented. 
So although Mr A may not have been provided 2 months notice, and he may not have been 
happy with the introduction of the 1.5% fee on credit card Fronted payments, he had two 
months from when the fee was introduced, to cancel his account free of charge if he didnt 
want to keep his Curve Black account. Overall, whilst I recognise that it wouldve been 
preferable that Mr A was given notice about this change, the fact he was able to cancel his 
account for free seems reasonable in the circumstances. I also think that - as Mr A kept the 
account (and went on to upgrade to another account) despite being informed about the 
change  its likely that Mr A wouldnt have acted any differently, even if he had been given 2 
months notice. 
Mr A later upgraded his account to the Curve Metal account I understand this was so he 
could avoid the 1.5% Curve Fronted fees. However, Curve then explained in an email dated 
30 September 2021 that it would be introducing a £10,000 monthly limit to Curve Fronted 
payments on the Metal account. This monthly limit came into effect on 1 December 2021.
I appreciate that Mr A was dissatisfied with this, especially as he had not long upgraded his 
account so as to avoid the Fronted fees. But it is the case that Mr A was given notice of the 
change to include a monthly Fronted limit on his account, in accordance with the account 
terms and conditions. So Im satisfied that Mr A was given a reasonable opportunity to 
change his account if he no longer wanted it, following the changes that Curve implemented 
in December 2021. 
Following the introduction of the £10,000 Curve Fronted limit, I understand that a large part 
of Mr As complaint is that he then had no way of knowing from the app how much of the 
£10,000 Curve Fronted monthly limit he had left to use. 
Curve has explained that it is essentially government-based organisations and credit card 
providers that would be included in this limit. But I have some sympathy with Mr As view on 
this point, as it seems that there is currently no way to quickly find out how much of the limit 
is left. The options available to establish how much of his limit is left seem to be either to 
manually go through his payments for the month and add up all of the government-based 
payments and payments to credit card providers - to obtain an estimate of how much of his 
limit is left. Alternatively, Curve says that Mr A can get an exact figure by asking Curve via 
the web chat. Although this method unfortunately seems to have historically involved an 
element of delay before Mr A could get an answer.
Overall, I recognise the frustrations that Mr A has had when using his Curve Metal account. 
Ultimately, hes not able to use this account exactly as hed like in the form it currently takes. 
But that being said, I have to be fair to both sides  and Mr A is able to get the information 
he needs to use his account as he wishes, its just that this is more inconvenient than hed like. Curve says that it is looking into improving the app in the future, which may help Mr A. 
But, having taken everything into account, I dont think itd be appropriate to require Curve to 
pay the redress that Mr A has requested.
Im also mindful that if Mr A does make a Curve Fronted payment and he is charged the 
1.5% fee due to exceeding the £10,000 monthly limit, he potentially has the option to avoid 
being charged this fee by using Curves Go Back In Time feature (which allows an account 
holder to change which card a payment should be taken from, up to 30 days after the 
payment is made), and choose a debit card to make the payment instead (thereby avoiding 
the Fronted Fee). So again, although it is not ideal that Mr A may only become aware of 
exceeding his limit until after he has made such a payment (if he doesnt want to wait for a 
response from Curves web chat), it seems that Curve does provide a reasonable option if 
he is charged the fee but doesnt want to pay it.   
I understand that when Mr A was speaking with Curve, he was incorrectly told that if his 
Curve Fronted payments exceeded £10,000 for the month, he would be charged 1.5% on 
the entire payment(s) - rather than just on the amounts that exceed the limit. But as the 
investigator pointed out, although it was unfortunate Mr A was given incorrect information, it 
seems the fees have been calculated correctly i.e. in line with the account terms and 
conditions, and so he has not lost out because of this. 
As such, whilst I recognise the frustrations that Mr A has had when using his Curve Metal 
account, having taken everything into account, I dont think itd be appropriate to require 
Curve to pay the redress that Mr A has requested.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman