DRN-3134457
The complaint
Mr P complains MCE Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim against his 
motorcycle insurance policy after they failed to renew it. 
Mr P thinks the claim should be met. 
What happened
Mr P took out motorcycle insurance with MCE in March 2020 and the policy wasnt set up to 
automatically renew. 
Mr P said his motorcycle was stolen between 14 and 15 March 2021, so he raised a claim. 
MCE declined it and said no active cover was in place when the theft occurred. Mr P wasnt 
happy about this, so he complained. 
MCE said they sent renewal documents to Mr P in February 2021. They said this set out that 
the policy wouldnt automatically renew, and Mr P needed to call them. And as he didnt, the 
policy lapsed. They also said they informed Mr P the policy lapsed on 14 March 2021 by text 
and email, and again on 26 March 2021 by email. 
Mr P said he received the February 2021 renewal documents and the 26 March 2021 email 
to say the policy lapsed, but not the 14 March 2021 communications. 
Mr P later contacted MCE in April 2021 to request a copy of his previous insurance 
documents. MCE said during the first call Mr P made, he made it clear he was aware the 
policy lapsed. And after calling twice to request his previous insurance documents, MCE 
sent him a new certificate of insurance in error which stated Mr P was insured from 13 March 
2021. 
Mr P says the new certificate of insurance sent to him demonstrates he was insured at the 
time of the theft, MCE failed to take payment for the new policy and the claim should be met. 
MCE maintained Mr P was already aware the policy had lapsed before he received the new 
certificate of insurance they sent in error. And the policy documents, renewal invitation and 
correspondence sent in March 2021 made it clear the policy wouldnt automatically renew 
and had lapsed. So, they didnt agree to meet the claim as no active policy was in place. 
Mr P says he made an error when assuming the policy would automatically renew but thinks 
the claim should be met. And by MCE failing to do so has caused him distress and 
inconvenience. As he remained unhappy with the way MCE handled things, he approached 
our service for an independent review. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She felt 
the documents Mr P received from MCE regarding the 2021 renewal made it clear the policy 
wouldnt automatically renew. And MCE had provided enough evidence to demonstrate they 
made Mr P aware of this, and that the policy had lapsed in March 2021. Therefore, she didnt 
think MCE acted unfairly when declining the claim as no active policy was in place. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. So, the case was passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether MCE made it clear the policy wouldnt automatically renew
When arriving at my decision, the key finding I need to make is whether I think MCE 
provided Mr P with reasonable notice that the policy wouldnt automatically renew. Mr P said 
he received the February 2021 renewal invitation and the 26 March 2021 email saying the 
policy had lapsed. But he didnt receive the 14 March 2021 email and text MCE say was sent 
to confirm the policy had lapsed. 
My starting point here is the policy terms which say: 
Definitions relating to Your Policy 
Period of Insurance 
The length of time covered by this contract of insurance, as shown on the current 
policy schedule and certificate of motor insurance. Please note your this policy 
will not automatically renew. 
The key facts document also sets out the policy will not automatically renew. This means 
that, unless Mr P contacted MCE at the time the policy was due to renew, the policy would 
lapse at the end of the contract term. Having considered this, Im not satisfied MCE acted 
unfairly or made an error when not carrying out an automatic renewal of the policy. 
Mr P says MCE made an error when failing to take payment for the policy. But, given the 
above, I dont agree. And I say this because the policy was never due to automatically 
renew, which I think was clearly set out by MCE in this case. 
Furthermore, the February 2021 renewal invitation also sets out that the policy wouldnt 
automatically renew, and Mr P was required to call MCE in order to do so. Given Mr P told 
us he received the February 2021 renewal invitation, Im satisfied on balance, he was given 
reasonable notice he would need to contact MCE to renew the policy. 
Whether Mr P was reasonably aware the policy had lapsed 
Mr P said he received MCEs email of 26 March 2021 which said the policy had lapsed. He 
didnt however receive an email or text message from MCE on 14 March 2021 to say the 
policy had lapsed. 
I understand Mr Ps frustration here and Ive no reason to doubt his testimony that these 
communications werent received. MCE provided system screenshots they say 
demonstrates contact was made by email and text on 14 March 2021  using the same 
email address and phone number Mr P had given when setting up the policy in 2020. 
Ive considered this. And as I think Mr P was reasonably made aware the policy wouldnt 
automatically renew, I dont find that this aspect of the complaint has a material bearing on 
the outcome. I say this because the policy was never due to automatically renew  which the policy and February 2021 renewal invitation in my view made clear. So, whilst MCE says the 
communications on 14 March 2021 were sent, and Mr P says these werent received, Im 
satisfied it was already clear the policy wouldnt be active after the end date unless Mr P 
made contact. 
Mr P also said when the theft occurred  which he said was during the evening of 15 March 
2021 when he submitted the complaint to us  hed found a message on MCEs website that 
said the policy wasnt active. After seeing this, he said he contacted MCE by phone and was 
told the policy had lapsed as he hadnt renewed it, and he checked the email he received 
from MCE which confirmed this to be the case. 
Mr P told us he reported the theft to MCE on 15 March 2021. Therefore, its fair to say Mr P 
was likely aware the policy had lapsed after looking at the policy documents online and 
making a call to MCE on 15 March 2021. 
The new certificate of insurance that was sent to Mr P 
Mr P contacted MCE in April 2021 to request a copy of his previous insurance documents. 
Ive listened to the calls, and its clear Mr P was aware at this stage the policy had lapsed. 
After calling twice, MCE provided him with a new certificate of insurance  rather than the 
previous policy documents he requested  which they said was sent in error. 
I can appreciate this would have caused Mr P some confusion, as all parties at this stage 
were aware the policy had lapsed. As Mr P had contacted MCE for a copy of his previous 
insurance documents, Im satisfied this was sent to him in error as no active policy was in 
place  given the policy wasnt renewed by Mr P, and never was intended to be 
automatically renewed. So, I dont think, by MCE sending a new certificate of insurance in 
error, should mean the claim should succeed. I say this because the policy wasnt renewed. 
Mr P also said he received an email to say the policy lapsed on 14 March 2021. And its 
possible his motorcycle was stolen between 14 and 15 March 2021, and therefore he was on 
cover. But its important to note the policy wasnt active on 14 March 2021 in any event. I say 
this because Mr Ps policy schedule provides a contract end date of Midnight on 13 March 
2021. So, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, I dont find MCE acted unfairly by declining the 
claim or made an error by failing to automatically renew the policy. As such, I dont require 
MCE to do anything further.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr P. But my decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve his dispute with MCE  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman