DRN-3177988
The complaint
Ms P complains that Great lakes Insurance SE declined her claim for a collapsed garden 
wall under her home buildings insurance policy.
Ms P is represented by Mr A in this complaint.
What happened
A boundary wall in Ms Ps garden collapsed in December 2019. She contacted Great Lakes, 
to make a claim. 
Great Lakes arranged for an inspection of the damaged wall. It says although the flint wall 
was covered by its policy the cause of the collapse was the result of wear and tear. The 
company confirmed that this cause is excluded under its policy terms and it declined the 
claim. 
Ms P and Mr A thought the decision to decline the claim was unfair and referred the matter 
to our service. Having reviewed the matter our investigator decided not to uphold the 
complaint. She thought the company had behaved reasonably in declining the claim as no 
insured event, covered by the policy, had been shown to have occurred. She referred to the 
inspection report that says coping bricks were loose, there was a lack of mortar and the wall 
had not been maintained. She thought this supported Great Lakes view that the cause of 
the damage was wear and tear over time.
Ms P and Mr A disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Ms P and Mr A but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Ms P has another complaint about what was discussed when the insurance policy was 
renewed. I wont be considering these points here. My decision will focus on whether it was 
fair for Great Lakes to decline the claim under the policy terms.
Its the responsibility of a policyholder to prove, at least on the face of it, that they have a
valid claim under one of the insured events (fire, theft, escape of water etc.) covered by
the policy terms and conditions. If they are able to do so the insurer must pay the claim
unless it can rely on one of the policy exclusions.
Mr A refers to the wall falling down in his complaint but doesnt provide any detail around 
how this happened. I note that during a call with our investigator he says the wall fell down 
due to gravity. The records supplied by Great Lakes taken at the time the claim was made, 
say Mr A didnt know what the cause of the wall falling was. But he did subsequently suggest 
heavy rain had been the cause.
Great Lakes says it checked the weather records and there were no high winds recorded at 
the time of the loss. I have also reviewed weather records from around the time the wall was 
reported to have fallen down. There is no evidence of storm force winds or torrential rainfall 
in the locality around this time.   
As above its for the policyholder to prove that an insured event has occurred. Based on the 
information I have seen, Ms P and Mr A havent shown that an insured event occurred that 
caused the wall to fall down. I acknowledge their view that the wall falling down was covered 
regardless of the cause. As above, this argument is subject to the separate complaint and 
doesnt form part of my consideration here.
I have thought about the wear and tear exclusion Great Lakes relied on when declining Ms 
Ps claim, and whether this reasonably applies to these circumstances.
The company sent a loss adjustor to inspect the damage. The records from this visit include 
the following information about the condition of the remaining parts of the wall:
Wall face showing lack of mortar; Side elevation showing slight lean of the all; Area where 
wall failed evidence of past repairs to the brickwork; Road side of wall, bulging and mortar 
erosion evident; Bracing of the corner; Overview of wall; Overview of wall [sic]; Rear of wall 
with older stable crack visible, braced on the other side; Roadside face of flints failed; 
Google earth view of wall pre failure; Garden side of wall; Wall end showing 1  brick 
thickness; Flint and brick wall in garden towards the new section; Garden side repairs 
evident, likely using cement based mortar; outside wall new end.
The loss adjustors report is detailed and describes various areas of the remaining wall that 
are showing clear signs of deterioration. Based on this information, I think Great Lakes 
description of the wall suffering from wear and tear is persuasive.      
The policy terms say:
Your insurer will not pay for:
Gradually operating cause. 
Any loss, damage or liability arising from wear and tear or damage that happens gradually 
over time.
I sympathise with the position Ms P finds herself in and acknowledge this has been a 
distressing time for her. But the terms and conditions of the policy are set out clearly and 
confirm wear and tear, and damage thats happens gradually over time, is specifically 
excluded from the cover provided. Ms P and Mr A havent shown that an insured event 
occurred. And they havent provided evidence that shows its unreasonable to consider wear 
and tear is the underlying cause of the loss. 
Having considered all of this I think Great Lakes treated Ms P fairly when relying on the 
terms of its policy and declining the claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to 
resolve the complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman