DRN-1934565
The complaint 
Ms O complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) lent irresponsibly to her. 
Background
Between December 2018 and March 2019, Ms O borrowed two loans from MoneyBoat. The 
lending history is set out below. 
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Principal
1 31/12/2018 11/03/2019 3 £200.00
2 29/03/2019 Outstanding 4 £400.00
 
As set out above, I understand there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 2. 
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld because it should have been clear 
to MoneyBoat that Ms O could not sustainably afford to repay either loan. MoneyBoat 
disagreed with that view. It said that early in the lending relationship, it would not have 
known that Ms O was in financial trouble. It also said that even though it had obtained a 
credit report, it was not reasonable to expect an underwriter to consider each line of that 
report before deciding whether to agree the loans. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make an ombudsmans decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
However, MoneyBoat told us that at the point of Ms Os applications, it had checked her 
income and expenditure. It had also undertaken a fairly in-depth credit check. And I would 
expect it to take account of the information it had obtained in that regard. So, looking at loan 1, I can see that Ms O applied for £400. She declared her income to be 
£2,000 per month and her expenditure to be £766 per month. She told MoneyBoat she had 
no credit expenses. However, MoneyBoat had Ms Os credit file and it was clear that Ms O 
did have monthly debt repayments. When making its decision to agree this loan, MoneyBoat 
adjusted her credit commitments to £560 per month. 
I appreciate MoneyBoat made that adjustment, but from the information contained in the 
credit report, I think its most likely that Ms Os debt repayments exceeded £1,000 per month. 
Putting that together with what she had to pay for day to day expenses including food, rent 
and utilities, I think MoneyBoat should have realised that Ms O did not have enough money 
to cover the monthly repayments for this loan. 
There were also other factors that should have put MoneyBoat on notice that Ms O was in 
financial difficulty. She had opened 16 new credit accounts in the six months prior to taking 
this borrowing. Her credit file had also been searched 23 times in the three preceding 
months. This indicates that Ms O had made a significant number of credit applications during 
that time and that she was very keen to get credit. A number of her accounts were also in 
default. 
MoneyBoat argues that it would not expect its underwriters to examine Ms Os credit report 
at length. Even if I accepted that argument, the information I have mentioned above was 
contained on the first two pages of the credit report and a detailed analysis would not have 
been required to realise that Ms O was probably in difficulty. 
All in all, I think it should have been clear to MoneyBoat that Ms O could not sustainably 
repay loan 1 and I dont think it should have been agreed. 
Turning now to loan 2, Ms O declared her income to again be £2,000 per month. Her 
expenditure was said to be £1,010 per month, including £50 credit repayments. MoneyBoat 
adjusted her credit expenditure and increased it by £550. However, looking at the credit 
report, it seems most likely to me that her credit repayments alone exceeded £1,400 per 
month. And when her rent, food and transport expenses were taken into account, it should 
have been clear to MoneyBoat that Ms Os expenditure significantly outweighed her income. 
It should have realised that she could not sustainably repay loan 2. And I dont think this loan 
should have been agreed either. 
So, I agree with our adjudicator that this complaint should be upheld and MoneyBoat will 
need to take action to put things right for Ms O. 
Putting things right 
In order to put things right for Ms O, MoneyBoat must:
refund all interest and charges Ms O paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat any payments 
Ms O made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Ms Os loan 2 account as Ive directed results in her effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then MoneyBoat should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement;
If reworking Ms Os loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
MoneyBoat can use the total refund for loan 1 to offset this. And if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I would remind it that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms O for the 
remaining capital;
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Os credit file in relation to loans 1 
and 2.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision 
I uphold this complaint and require Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman