DRN-4312713
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax) 
allowed unauthorised access to Mrs S account resulting in a loss of funds.
What happened
Mrs S sadly passed away in late 2022 and held accounts with Halifax. Prior to her passing, 
Mrs S lived with her daughter who is not part of this complaint.
Arrangements were made at the time for Mrs Ss daughter to be a signatory on the account 
to assist with Mrs Ss finances. Records show that she was added to Mrs Ss account in 
2015 with further changes to the account in 2016  Halifax have stated this is to become a 
joint account holder. Between 2015 and her passing, numerous payments left the account 
which have been questioned by the estates executors.
In 2021 Mrs S was formally diagnosed with a condition that meant she could no longer make 
her own decisions. Halifax have no record of being advised of this until after Mrs s passed 
away.
The estates executors believe that Mrs Ss daughter wasnt a proper signatory and shouldnt 
have been allowed to use the account. Theyve calculated that approximately £100,000 is 
missing from Mrs Ss account.
The estate of Mrs S approached Halifax to question what had happened and over several 
months. Various updates were given to the executors, some of which Halifax later confirmed 
were incorrect and misleading. Halifax offered the estate £350 for the misleading information 
given to them. Halifax maintained that the account holders were operating with the 
appropriate authority and declined to make any refund based on the claims by the estate.
The estate of Mrs S then brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review. An investigator was assigned to look into the matter and requested 
information from all parties.
The estate of Mrs S provided copies of statements and other documentation. They believed 
that Mrs Ss daughter shouldnt have been allowed to operate the account and as Mrs S had 
difficulty with English, they didnt think that Halifax had provided sufficient assistance to 
ensure that Mrs S understood what was happening with her account. Other matters 
concerning various updates given to them by Halifax were raised regarding record keeping 
and access to account paperwork.
Halifax provided account details including electronic records of changes to the account. 
Much of the paperwork had already been destroyed by Halifax based on their normal 
retention policies, so they were unable to provide all of the account paperwork.
Halifax provided a letter written by Mrs Ss daughter explaining the circumstances of the 
arrangement she had with her mother. At the time of the letter, her daughter had become the 
sole account holder and was entitled to the remaining funds in the account.  In her letter, she 
gave authority for the remaining balance to be transferred to the estate of Mrs S for their 
administration based on Mrs Ss wishes.
After considering the evidence provided by both parties, the investigator didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. He believed that Halifax hadnt made any errors with the operation 
of the account.
The estate of Mrs S disagreed and continued to believe that Halifax had incorrectly 
administered the account, leading to the loss of funds. The estate of Mrs S advised theyd 
been told by Halifax in a recent call that mandate paperwork had been found, but not 
provided. They also confirmed that the account was to be renamed, enabling the estates 
executors to access the remaining funds.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
Because the estate stated theyd been told that mandate paperwork existed, I asked Halifax 
to provide all their available paperwork associated with account authorities/mandates. They 
recently replied that they no longer had any paperwork available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of the passing of Mrs S. Having to bring a complaint following the death 
of a close family member is no doubt additionally stressful, so I recognise the extra burden 
placed on the executors. The complaint made by the estate of Mrs S is that a family member 
who was using the account didnt have appropriate authority to do so. Essentially, this 
complaint revolves around whether Halifax had the appropriate authority to allow the named 
person to operate the account. If not, then all the transactions carried out by them would 
likely be unauthorised. On the other hand, if Mrs S had given authority for her family member 
to use the account, then its likely that all the transactions were authorised.
Ive not been able to view all the evidence from this complaint due to some of the documents 
having been destroyed following Halifaxs normal retention policy. Also, not all of the parties 
are present in this complaint, so to a degree, Ive not had all sides of the story apart from a 
response made to Halifax by the former account holder. Also, the original account holder, 
Mrs S, has sadly passed away, so Ive had to rely on the evidence available to me.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
My focus regarding this complaint is on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me 
to do this and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, 
if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im 
satisfied that I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what 
I think is the right outcome.
The former joint account holder has written to Halifax and in her response to various 
questions, explained that Mrs S was living with her and over the years became more 
dependent, including with the operation of the account. Under such circumstances, its not 
surprising that a close family member would become more involved with the finances of an 
elderly relative, particularly one who was living with them. 
Halifaxs records do show the addition of Mrs Ss daughter to the account in 2015, followed by another entry in 2016 that indicates the account was redesignated. Halifax have stated 
that Mrs S and her daughter were joint account holders and the entries in the file can be 
interpreted that way. Once added to the account as a joint holder, Mrs Ss daughter would 
have the same rights to use it as Mrs S. From the evidence, Im satisfied that Mrs S added 
her daughter to the account, giving her equal access to the funds and their use.
The estate has also raised questions regarding the ability of Mrs S to understand what was 
happening, due first to her lack of understanding of English and later in regard to her 
capacity to make decision due to her ill health. Theres no evidence to suggest Mrs S 
required additional help with her account from Halifax. Whilst I dont doubt what the estates 
executors have said about Mrs Ss understanding of the English language, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that throughout the operation of the account, Mrs S had assistance 
from either her husband or other family members. Without specific evidence to the contrary, I 
cant conclude Halifax failed to administer the account and provide the appropriate 
assistance to Mrs S.
Regarding the lack of capacity experienced by Mrs S towards the end of her life, Im not 
aware that Halifax knew about this until after her passing. I cant hold them responsible for 
something they werent told about or couldnt have reasonably concluded themselves. Its 
doubtful that Mrs S was doing any of her banking at that point, so I dont think there was an 
opportunity for Halifax to find this out and as it was a joint account, there was no obvious 
reason to question its operation.
I understand that Halifax have accepted they provided inconsistent information to the estate 
of Mrs S, which confused the situation and no doubt added to the stress felt by the 
executors. Halifax offered £350 for this level of service, and I think this is a reasonable way 
for them to address the situation. I wont be asking them to do anything further.
Overall, Im afraid that I wont be upholding this complaint because theres no evidence to 
suggest that the additional account holder was added improperly. Mrs S changed the 
accounts management whilst she had capacity and from then on, its use as a joint account 
gave the second account holder authority to manage it. Im satisfied the disputed 
transactions were appropriately authorised. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman