DRN-3190766
The complaint
Miss P complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) has been chasing her for payment for
items she never received.
What happened
Miss P had a Studio catalogue account which she opened in October 2015.
The terms and conditions of the account explain what to do if you think your parcel is lost it
says:
If you believe your parcel is lost, you must let us know as soon as possible (after the
5 days from the advised delivery date, and no later than 42 days after despatch).
Sorry, but any claim made over 42 days after the despatch date wont be accepted.
Miss P had a zero balance on her account and no money was owing on it prior to her making
an order on 5 October 2020. The order included among other things an item described as
Snappy Shark. On 6 October 2020, Miss P contacted Studio asking to cancel some items
on the order including Snappy Shark. It advised Miss P was unable to cancel the order at
that time.
Miss P contacted Studio on 18 October 2020 to say she hadn't received the parcel. Studio
advised her to wait a couple of days and it should be with her, but to let it know if it didnt
arrive. Miss P didnt contact Studio again about this.
A payment of £47.97 was received on the account and on 2 December 2020, two further
orders were made on the account.
On 6 January 2021, a late payment fee of £12 was added to the account, Miss P called
Studio on 12 January 2021, to discuss this. In the call Miss P explained she had received a
letter to say she had missed a payment in January, but she couldnt understand how this
was possible as in December her minimum payment was £10 and shed paid £47.97, which
is more than the minimum for both months. She went onto say she had written to Studio 
about missing items from her order (she does not expand on this, its not clear what is
missing in the call or what order it relates to). She goes on to say the next payment she was
going to make was for £36.74 and says she will not be making any more payments after this.
A further payment of £36.74 was received on the account on 16 January 2021, bringing the
balance owed to £155.78. No further payments were made towards the account. The
account continued to attract late payment fees.
On 23 March 2021, Miss P contacted Studio again and advised that there had been missing
items from her deliveries in October and so she didnt want to pay for these. Included in the
items Miss P said were missing was the item described in the catalogue as Snappy Shark.
Studio explained to Miss P as she had not let it know about the missing items within 42 days
of the delivery date, it would not be able to accept her claim or refund the money to her
account. Miss P complained to Studio. It didnt uphold her complaint and so she brought it to
this service.
Studio sold the debt to a debt collection service on 2 August 2021.
The investigator that considered Miss Ps complaint said that Studio had acted fairly and
In line with its terms and conditions, so didnt uphold her complaint. Miss P disagreed  she
said she didnt report it within the 42 days as her son was unwell and in hospital. As she
didnt agree with the investigators findings the matter was referred to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings (below) on 11 November 2021 and invited both parties to 
respond letting me have any relevant information and comments.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my provisional decision on 
what I thinks more likely to have happened in light of the evidence. Having done so 
my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint, Ill explain.
Before I go on to do so Id like to firstly take this opportunity to say Im sorry to hear 
Miss Ps son is unwell and hope he is recovering well.
The Studio account Miss P has is a credit agreement which requires her to make a 
monthly payment when there is a balance outstanding. Making an overpayment in 
one month does not take away the requirement to meet the minimum payment the 
following month. Based on this, I think Studio acted fairly when it added a late 
payment fee to her account when it didnt receive the minimum payment due, on 
time, in January 2021, and the subsequent late payment fees it applied when she 
stopped making payments.
The terms and conditions of the account are clear that any claim for lost parcels 
needs to be reported within the 42-day time frame and Miss P didnt do this. Studio 
has also provided tracking details for the deliveries its courier partners made to Miss 
P.
So, in order to see if Studio should make allowances for Miss P and do something 
outside of the terms and conditions, Ive considered Miss Ps reasons for this and her 
ability to have made Studio aware sooner.
Miss P has told us that her son was in hospital until about October, she has been 
reluctant to provide anything more definitive than this as she has said she shouldnt 
have to explain hers or her sons business to anyone. This is entirely her choice and I 
understand her allowance for her son being in hospital until the end of October.
Miss P contacted Studio on 18 October 2020, to say the parcel hadnt arrived yet. 
She was told to give it a couple of days, she didnt come back to Studio to say there 
was any further problem regarding the delivery of the parcel.
She made a payment onto the account and placed two further orders in December 
2020, but at this point had still not contacted Studio to report items missing. So, I 
cant fairly say, even given her sons situation, Miss P wasnt able to make contact 
with Studio, about the missing items, sooner than she did.Ive gone on to consider the call she made to Studio in January 2021, where she 
mentions she has written to Studio about missing items. I appreciate that Miss P says 
in this call she has written to Studio regarding missing items, but there is no record of 
it having received anything from Miss P on its systems. After Miss P says she isnt 
paying anymore the adviser says he will check the account and the call cuts out, it 
isnt clear from listening to it why this happens. Miss P doesnt call back or raise the 
issue again until March 2021. Even if I accept this call as the point Miss P notifies 
Studio of the missing items  it is still outside of the 42- day limit and so wouldnt 
count.
I understand that Miss P has had a lot going on, caring for her son, but she still had a
responsibility to Studio to meet her monthly payments and tell it within the time frame 
set out in the terms and condition if something was missing from an order. If she was 
unable to do this, she should have let it know and explained the reason why. Had she 
done so, it may have made allowances for this. But as she didnt, I cant say that 
Studio acted unfairly in not considering the claim for the lost parcel, or in applying the 
late payment defaults as it did.
Studio responded, it reiterated that it had no prior knowledge of Miss P's circumstances but 
said even if it had it would have been unlikely to have changed the outcome of her complaint 
with it. It went on to say that it was happy with the provisional findings.
Miss P responded saying she had seen in her local paper that another person had had a 
similar problem with a parcel not been received. She made no comment about the actual 
findings in the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disputed the provisional findings nor provided any further evidence to 
be considered, my findings remain unchanged from that of my provisional decision.
I know Miss P will be disappointed with this outcome. My decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve her dispute with studio  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman