DRN-3754622
The Complaint
Mr L says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product on 1 November 2009 (the Time of 
Sale). He also says that BPF failed to carry out the right checks to make sure he could 
afford what he was borrowing.
The complaint is in Mr Ls name because he was named on the credit agreement that gave 
rise to the claims. But as the holiday product at the centre of this complaint was purchased 
by Mr L and his wife (Mrs L), Ill refer to both of them at times during this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs L purchased membership of a holiday club for £12,250 from a third party (the 
Supplier) at the Time of Sale and helped to pay for that purchase by taking finance from 
BPF in Mr Ls name (the Credit Agreement).
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr L  using a professional representative (PR)  wrote to BPF 
on 10 February 2020 (the Letter of Claim) to:
Make claims for misrepresentation and a breach of contract under Section 75 of the 
CCA;
Make a claim for an unfair relationship under Section 140A of the CCA; and
Complain about the checks that had been carried out before Mr L was granted the credit 
under the Credit Agreement. 
There are a number of reasons behind Mr Ls claims for misrepresentation and an unfair 
relationship. And as theyre familiar to both sides, I wont repeat them here in detail. PR says 
that the contract entered into by Mr and Mrs L was breached by the Supplier because it went 
into liquidation in January 2020 and ceased trading.
It doesnt look like Mr L or PR got a response to the Letter of Claim from BPF. So, a 
complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 9 September 2021. 
On 15 November 2021, BPF emailed an investigator setting out its position on the complaint. 
It thought that the claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship had been made out 
of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA). And it didnt think the claim for a breach of 
contract should succeed because it said that the resorts1 named on Mr and Mrs Ls 
purchase agreement were still in operation and the Suppliers liquidation hadnt affected their 
ability to use their membership. 
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information 
available, rejected the complaint on the basis that:
the claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship had been made out of time 
under the LA2;
the resorts named on Mr and Mrs Ls purchase agreement were still in operation and the 
Suppliers liquidation hadnt affected their ability to use their membership; and
there wasnt the evidence to persuade him that the credit granted to Mr L was 
unaffordable.
PR disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision 
without giving any reasons why with reference to the facts and circumstances of this 
complaint. Instead, it said that there were a large number of consumers for whom a decision 
would be significant  particularly if it went against Mr L. 
 
So, on 11 July 2022, the investigator told PR and BPF that the complaint was being referred 
to an ombudsman and he gave both sides until 25 July 2022 to add to what had already 
been said. As that deadline has now been and gone, the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors 
[2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action 
founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr L made a like claim against BPF under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation period 
for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. And as noted at 
paragraph 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)), BPF 
may adopt any defence that would have been or would be open to the Supplier, including 
that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation. 
1 Beverly Hills Club and Hollywood Mirage Club
2 On the basis that Mr Ls account was closed on 12 May 2010.This means that Mr L had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to 
make a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr L entered into the 
purchase and Credit Agreements. I say this because he entered into the purchase 
agreement based on the alleged misrepresentations of the Supplier  which he relied on. 
And as the finance from BPF was used to help pay for the purchase, it was when he entered 
into the Credit Agreement that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued at the Time of Sale  which means he 
had six years from then to make this claim. But as he didnt do that until February 2020, and 
as I cant see a reason why he had more time to make his claim in keeping with the relevant 
provisions of the LA, his claim is likely to have been late. And for that reason, I think BPF 
had and has a defence to it under the LA.
Section 75: Breach of Contract
Mr and Mrs Ls purchase agreement from 1 November 2009 named two resorts: Beverley 
Hills Club and Hollywood Mirage Club. 
The Letter of Claim says that the Supplier went into liquidation and couldnt provide the 
service it sold to Mr and Mrs L. So, as far as Mr L and PR were concerned, there had been a 
breach of contract.
BPF says that the resorts named on Mr and Mrs Ls purchase agreement remained open  
such that they were and are still able to use their membership. So, it didnt think that the 
Suppliers liquidation had led to a breach of contract. And it was on that basis that the 
investigator rejected this part of the complaint.
However, neither Mr L nor PR have said and/or provided much in relation to this allegation 
despite having the chance to do so. And without knowing (1) what rights and obligations 
have been assigned to another business since the Suppliers liquidation (if any) and (2) what 
specific rights Mr L thinks he has lost, Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of 
contract that BPF is likely to be jointly liable for on this occasion  especially when the 
allegation isnt accompanied by any supporting evidence.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr L and BPF was 
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does.
However, Ive considered the provisions under the LA as it also applies to claims under 
Section 140A. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] that the time for limitation purposes ran 
from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the claim was 
made. As the limitation period is six years, and as the claim under Section 140A was only 
made in February 2020 (when I cant see a reason why hes likely to have had more time to 
make his claim in keeping with the relevant provisions of the LA), I think BPF is likely to be 
entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to this claim too as Mr L doesnt dispute that the 
Credit Agreement ended more than six years before the claim was made.
So, I see no reason to ask BPF to do anything further in relation to Mr Ls Section 140A 
claim either.The Lending Decision
The suggestion that BPF didnt carry out the right checks when it lent to Mr L looks like it 
was framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A. And 
Ive already explained why the claim under that provision was likely to have been made out 
of time under the LA.
Lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question was an activity
covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. But very 
little has been said about this particular allegation. And even if I were to find that BPF failed
to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I make no such finding), Id have 
to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr L before also concluding that he lost 
out as a result. As I havent seen anything to persuade me that was the case, I dont think 
this is a reason to uphold this complaint given its circumstances.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman