DRN-2252379
The complaint
Mr H complains that esure Insurance Limited didnt compensate him properly for the poor 
service provided by it after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr Hs car was damaged in a non-fault incident reported to esure on 24 February 2020. The 
repairs were dealt with initially by one of esures approved repairers (garage A). The car 
had to be returned to garage A for rectification and was back with Mr H by 24 April 2020. In 
early May 2020, the car had to go back to the garage again for issues including a damaged 
badge and abrasion marks. At this point Mr H said he wanted the car to be checked by a 
dealership garage (garage B) after the repairs were done. esure agreed to that, but in the 
meantime, in mid-May Mr H told esure the car wasnt drivable due to a leaky radiator.
 
On 26 May 2020, esure paid Mr H £200 to cover the cost of the inspection done by garage B 
and for the cost of fuel in his car that he said had been used by garage A. And as Mr H had 
made a complaint about esures service, it issued a final response letter on 3 June 2020. 
esure paid Mr H £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the time taken to carry 
out the repairs and the need for some of the work to be rectified. It also paid him £158.82 
(the cost of three months premium payments). esure didnt agree that it should have to pay 
the cost of the finance payments on the car. But it said if he had any expenses as a result of 
having borrowed a car, it would look to reimburse them.
On 10 June 2020 esure paid Mr H a further £200 compensation for the inconvenience of 
borrowing a car. Then, in July 2020, garage B found that a safety directive issued by the 
manufacturer hadnt been noted by garage A, so the car had to come off the road 
immediately. esure authorised garage B to carry out all necessary repairs. And it paid Mr H a 
further £400 compensation. Mr H told esure in August 2020 that he didnt think the 
compensation was enough. And he thought it should also refund six months premiums and 
lease hire payments.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint. He noted that esure had paid Mr H 
£1,100 compensation for distress and inconvenience, plus three months premium payments 
and the cost of petrol and of garage Bs first inspection. He thought that was sufficient. Mr H 
said the investigator hadnt grasped the seriousness of the safety issue or the full effect of 
the long-running saga on Mr H and his family. He said after the safety issue was noted, 
esure shouldnt have charged him for a car he couldnt use.
 
The investigator said we dont consider compensation for situations that might have arisen 
but didnt. He thought the overall compensation made up for the extra premium refund that 
might have been made  although in his view the insurance was still payable when the car 
was being repaired. Mr H raised the general issue of esures garage not being aware of the 
safety issue garage B had highlighted. Mr H calculated that he should have been paid over 
£2,100 (including £1,500 for six months lease hire payments and £300 in premium refunds) 
 plus more compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt entirely clear exactly how long Mr Hs car was with him during the six-month period 
hes complained about, despite a recent request for clarification from the parties. As far as I 
can determine (based on the file notes and the comments made by the parties) Mr H had the 
use of the car for at least a month in May / June 2020. It looks as though he also had it back 
briefly at other points, between the times it had to be returned to garage A for more work.
I dont think the first month after the accident, when the initial repairs were done, can be 
considered as part of the period for which compensation is due. The car was off the road at 
that point due to the accident itself. And Mr H had a hire car during that period as well. I dont 
think the time taken to deal with the steering rack issue later on can be classed as an 
avoidable delay either, as the repair had to be done at some point. 
I think the garage should have dealt properly with the steering rack issue, in line with the 
manufacturers directive. But that would have taken it more time initially - or might have led 
to an early referral to garage B for the work. The car was with garage B for several weeks for 
the repair, and esure had no control over that. During that time Mr H had a replacement car 
from garage B (for which it would have been reimbursed). I think the original hire esure 
arranged would have continued had the steering rack issue been resolved initially by its 
garage. Either way, it seems the accident damage required a minimum of six to eight weeks 
in total to repair, and Mr H wasnt without a replacement car during that time.
Taking that into account - plus the time the car was back with Mr K, I think the avoidable 
delay for which garage A and esure were responsible was probably around three months. I 
know Mr H faced inconvenience and other poor service over a longer period. But in terms of 
whether the compensation paid to him was reasonable, I think its fair to say that after any 
accident, some inconvenience is inevitable. esure says that it offered Mr H further hire, but 
he decided to borrow a car instead, so esure offered to pay any expenses arising from that. I 
think that was reasonable. It isnt clear whether Mr H took up the offer (and if not, why not) 
but he hasnt said esure reneged on it.
 
I think esure acted reasonably in paying Mr H the equivalent of three months premium as 
part of the overall compensation. Premiums arent usually refunded when a car is being 
repaired, despite the consumer having no use of it. esure also refunded £200 to Mr H plus 
£1,100 for distress and inconvenience. Mr H also wanted a refund of his lease hire 
payments. It isnt usual for such payments to be refunded, but Ive thought carefully about 
whether it would be fair and reasonable to require esure to increase the amount of 
compensation overall. In my opinion, the total sum esure has offered Mr H is sufficient. 
 
As the investigator pointed out, we dont set out to punish businesses, but to check whether 
they have acted reasonably in trying to put matters right. In this case, I can see why Mr H is 
still very upset, particularly about the safety directive not being followed. esure paid 
compensation to reflect the fact that a major error was made by garage A in relation to that. 
Although the consequences of the error might have been very serious, fortunately nothing 
happened as a result of it. We cant award compensation for what could have occurred - and 
I think esure dealt with the issue reasonably.
   
In my opinion, esure recognised that the overall service Mr H got from it and from garage A 
was very poor. I think thats why it paid him compensation of over £1,200 - plus the £200 
refund  and offered to refund further costs he incurred in borrowing a car. I think the sums paid to Mr H by esure are in line with those we would have required it to pay had it not 
already done so. 
I know Mr H will be very disappointed with my decision, but as I think esure acted reasonably 
in trying to put matters right, I cant uphold his complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman