DRN-2882241
The complaint
 Ms A complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined her claim under her home 
emergency policy. 
 
What happened
 Ms A contacted IPA as she had no hot water. It sent an engineer but due to some confusion 
it sent the wrong engineer. Ms A called IPA several times to try and get an engineer to 
attend and carry out the work. 
Following another cancelled visit, IPA eventually told Ms A to get her own engineer to carry 
out the work, and she would be reimbursed up to the policy limit of £1,000.
Ms A instructed an engineer who found the issue to be the water tank. Two quotes were 
given one for the repair of the tank and the other for the replacement of the tank. The cost of 
the replacement was quoted as £885, which was cheaper than to repair the tank.
Ms A contacted IPA to find out if she would be covered for the work. IPA told her that the 
best option was to get her engineers to provide a report and it would reimburse her for the 
cost of the work, on production of an invoice. It also said that it would intend to reimburse her 
within 28 days.  Ms A confirmed with IPA that she could get the work completed provided it 
came up to £1,000. If it was over this limit, she would have to meet the shortfall. IPA 
confirmed this. So, Ms A instructed the engineer to carry out the work. 
Ms A sent in the invoice for reimbursement to be told by IPA that it wouldnt be paid as the 
replacement of water tanks wasnt covered under the policy. But it accepted there was poor 
customer service and offered £150 for the trouble and upset caused. Ms A was unhappy by 
this outcome as she wanted IPA to reimburse the cost of the tank, as she felt that IPA had 
told her to get the work done. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. She said that it was fair that 
IPA had compensated Ms A for the poor service. But because Ms A was entitled to a repair 
under the policy, she said it was fair that IPA reimburse Ms As costs. 
Ms A agreed. IPA didnt. It said that the terms and conditions of the policy didnt provide 
cover for replacement tanks. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
Having done so, I will be upholding Ms As complaint and I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
The main issue here is whether IPA was fair not to reimburse Ms A the cost of the new tank. 
IPA accepted that there were issues when it tried to secure the correct engineer to carry out 
the work. It appears it kept deploying the wrong engineer. This meant that Ms A had to call 
several times and was without hot water for a period. Eventually, IPA authorised Ms A to 
instruct her own engineer to complete the work. It offered £150 for the trouble and upset 
caused. I have considered this, and I think that the compensation (which I understand has 
been paid) is fair in the circumstances and one which I wouldve recommended had it not 
been done so already. 
I have next considered whether IPA ought to reimburse Ms A for the replacement tank. It 
relied on the exclusion clause in the policy which states that the replacement of water tanks 
isnt covered. But in this complaint, IPA also said that it told Ms A, during the calls that Ms A 
was advised that any reimbursement would be subject to the policy terms and conditions. 
I have listened to all of the call recordings and Ms A had to chase IPA to send the correct 
engineer, which ultimately it didnt do. But at no time did IPA tell Ms A that reimbursement 
was subject to the terms and conditions. 
Additionally, having reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy, I am satisfied that 
although a replacement was not permitted, a repair wouldve been. As IPA were unable to 
carry out the repair (which Ms A was entitled to under the policy) then it authorised Ms A to 
get her own engineer, which she did. 
Ms A sought authority (before the engineer carried out the work) and informed IPA about the 
cost of repairing or replacing the tank. During the call, IPA confirmed that it would reimburse 
her for the work on production of an invoice and completed reimbursement form. All of which 
Ms A submitted. 
Given that Ms A was entitled to the cost of a repair  which in this case was more than the 
cost of a replacement. And that IPA had given her the authority to get her own engineer to 
carry out the work, then I think it was unreasonable and unfair for IPA not to reimburse the 
cost of her engineers invoice of £885. 
Putting things right
 
To put matters right, IPA should cover the full cost of the replacement tank of £885. I 
understand that Ms A has already provided the invoice, if this has not been received, then 
Ms A ought to submit the invoice for IPA to reimburse it. 
IPA has already paid £150 for the trouble and upset caused, which I think is fair in the 
circumstances, so I make no further direction regarding this. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance SA should cover the cost of the replacement tank of £885.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman