DRN-3404425
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds decision to avoid her policy and 
the service she received from it when she made a claim under her home insurance policy 
following a burglary at her home.  
What happened
Mrs Ss home was burgled while she was on holiday in August 2019 and she made a claim 
to her insurer, Tesco. Tesco settled some of Mrs Ss claim for lost and damaged items. 
In October 2019 a jewellery valuer agent appointed by Tesco provided it with a report. Mrs S 
was given options as to how to settle this part of her claim: either with a cash settlement, or 
a part cash settlement and part voucher to obtain replacement jewellery at a discounted rate 
from the appointed agent.
For various reasons Mrs S didnt decide how to proceed with this part of her claim until 
October 2020. At this point Tesco realised the valuation provided in 2019 meant Mrs S had 
potentially under insured the valuables part of her contents. So it asked Mrs S to complete a 
Value at Risk (VAR) form. This is something Tesco should have asked Mrs S to complete a 
year before  had it noticed the reported valuation amount then. 
Mrs S completed the VAR form. Tesco made the decision to avoid Mrs Ss policy as it said 
she hadnt taken reasonable care when she applied for the policy in May 2018. Tesco said 
Mrs S had undervalued the valuables and the total contents Sum Insured. It said the total 
Sum Insured came to over £100,000. If Mrs S had provided a total contents Sum Insured of 
over £100,000, Tesco said it wouldnt have offered a policy. 
Although Tesco avoided Mrs Ss policy, it said it wouldnt look to recover the costs it had 
paid to meet part of Mrs Ss claim for general contents. 
Mrs S complained to Tesco about its decision, the agents valuation for the jewellery which 
she believed was inflated and the length of time Tesco took as it led Mrs S to believe her 
claim would be met. 
Tesco said its decision was correct and that it was satisfied with the agents expert valuation. 
Tesco upheld Mrs Ss complaint that it failed to notice in 2019 that the jewellery valuation 
meant it needed to ask for further information then. It said that Mrs S hadnt decided how to 
proceed with the claim for around a year. For its poor service, it paid Mrs S £100 
compensation. 
Mrs S asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought Tesco had acted 
reasonably. He understood  as Tesco did - that Mrs S hadnt deliberately misrepresented 
information about the value of the jewellery, but he thought it fair that she hadnt taken 
reasonable care when applying for the policy. The difference between the jewellery agents 
valuation of £42,418 and the declared amount by Mrs S of £24,000 was significant. 
Mrs S didnt agree and in February 2022 she provided a valuation for the stolen jewellery 
from a pawnbroker. Their valuation came to £27,165. Our Investigator forwarded this to 
Tesco. Tesco passed this to the jewellery agent  and Tesco offered to have a third 
valuation carried out. 
Mrs S didnt agree for a third valuation to be done. The valuation agent told Tesco the 
pawnbrokers valuation appears to be based on providing second hand replacement items  
whereas its valuation is based on providing new for old. And so it said a third valuation for 
clarity would be helpful. 
Mrs S wants an ombudsman to decide and reiterated the issues at the heart of her 
complaint. In summary these are:
She did take reasonable care and believes the Sum Insured for her contents at 
£80,000 covered the contents including the stolen jewellery.
Tesco didnt explain on what basis she should complete the VAR form despite asking 
for clarification. Providing comparative information, she believes the overall contents 
sits below £100,000 which is the underwriting limit set by Tesco and based on the 
agents valuation for the jewellery at £42,418. 
Although Tesco accepts her actions werent deliberate, Mrs S is very unhappy at 
having to declare to future insurers that she has had a previous policy cancelled by 
an insurer. She doesnt think this is a fair outcome. 
The compensation amount of £100 is derisory given the circumstances and the 
impact of Tescos decision.
Mrs S wants Tesco to reinstate her policy and meet her claim. She says she was satisfied 
with the settlement offered by the valuation agent in November 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that having to deal with this claim has been particularly upsetting for Mrs S. She 
explained that many of the stolen items had high sentimental value as they were gifts or 
items that were bought  or belonged to her late husband. So having to look through photos 
to provide evidence of the jewellery has caused distress and made worse existing health 
issues Mrs S is living with. Im very sorry to read of the circumstances of Mrs Ss case. 
Dealing with a claim  particularly one such as a burglary, fire or flood, can cause additional 
upset and disruption on top of the upset caused by the incident itself. My role is to look at 
whether Tescos actions were reasonable when it dealt with Mrs Ss claim  and if it acted in 
line with the policy terms and the relevant law. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Tesco says Mrs S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
declared a Sum Insured for all of her contents and for the valuables in her home. Mrs S applied for the policy with Tesco via an online comparison website in May 2018. 
Tesco told us that it limited the overall Sum Insured to £100,000 and its underwriters capped 
the valuables at 30% of the total Sum Insured. Tesco has provided a screenshot of the 
questions Mrs S was asked in relation to the contents and valuables Sum Insured amounts. 
She was first asked:
How much would it cost to replace the entire contents of your home as new?
Mrs S was provided with a drop down box to choose a Sum Insured amount up to £200,000. 
The comparison website advised that if the amounts provided by Mrs S were too low, the 
provider ( in this case Tesco) may not settle the claim in full.
The next question Mrs S was asked was about the high risk value items in her home:
What is the total value of the high risk items in your home? (Sum of individual items 
worth less than £1,500 each. Minimum value is 10% of the total above)
The comparison website advised that providers vary in the level of cover available and to 
check the policy details before purchasing. 
Tesco says it offered Mrs S a policy as the sums she declared were within its underwriting 
acceptance criteria: £24,000 valuables Sum Insured being 30% of the total Sum Insured of 
£80,000.This meant Mrs S was directed to Tescos website with the question below:  
The key question read:
Contents Cover  Up to £75,000 included as standard, which includes a limit of 
£15,000 for all your valuables. If it will cost more than this to replace all your contents 
and/or valuables (as new), please select the appropriate amount below. We cannot 
provide insurance for your contents if it would cost more than £100,000 to replace 
them. 
Mrs S chose a total contents Sum Insured of £80,000 with a valuables limit of £24,000 under 
this question. And these are the amounts clearly set out under her policy schedule which 
Tesco sent with her policy documents. At renewal in May 2019, these amounts remained the 
same.
Mrs Ss policy with Tesco sets out what it will and will not cover. Under the section; How we 
settle your claim it says:
3. If your contents total replacement value shown in your schedule is not enough to 
replace all the contents in your home with new items of the same quality and type, 
we may refuse to pay a contents claim under this policy or only pay part of a claim.
4. The most we will pay for any one claim for valuables, bicycles or any other 
specified item is the maximum claim limit shown in your schedule. If the maximum 
claim limits are not enough to replace these items with new ones of the same quality 
and type, we may refuse to pay a claim under these sections of cover or only pay 
part of a claim. 
I think Mrs S was asked clear questions about the total contents Sum Insured and valuables 
Sum Insured on the comparison website  before purchasing a policy with Tesco. And I think 
Tesco made it clear: both in its question and in the policy wording what would happen if the 
sums declared by Mrs S werent enough to replace the items in the event of a claim. 
Ive carefully considered what Mrs S has said about the valuables and the amount valued by 
the agent and pawnbroker. But I think its reasonable for an insurer to rely on the valuation 
provided by an agent in the absence of valuations a customer can provide before the items 
in question were stolen. And even if Tesco accepted the pawnbroker valuation provided by 
Mrs S, this shows that Mrs S undervalued the valuables by over £3,000. So I dont think Mrs 
S took reasonable care when she answered the question about the valuables Sum Insured when she applied for the policy. Ive also kept in mind that Tesco offered to arrange a third 
independent valuation which Mrs S has declined. 
Ive looked at whether Tescos decision to avoid Mrs Ss policy for careless 
misrepresentation was fair. In order to do so, I need to consider whether Mrs S 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one in line with CIDRA. 
Tesco says that  as well as not offering a policy where the valuables Sum Insured was 
more than 30% of the total contents Sum Insured  it wouldnt have offered a policy if it had 
known the total contents for Mrs Ss home exceeded £100,000. 
Ive looked at the VAR form Mrs S completed based on the information she was aware of in 
November 2020. Mrs S says she included some changes to the property which she says 
were carried out since the burglary: namely some flooring that had been fitted to the value of 
approximately £10,000. Mrs S says she asked for clarification from Tesco as to what should 
be included in the VAR form but didnt receive any guidance. 
In February 2022 Mrs S provided further information around the VAR form. She didnt think it 
fair for Tesco to include the costs of flooring after the burglary as the flooring would be 
insured under the buildings part of the policy. Mrs S considers the correct total VAR amount 
would therefore reduce from £65,800 to £55,750. Adding either the agents valuation of 
£42,418  or the pawnbrokers valuation of £27,165  both total less than £100,000. And so 
Mrs S says Tesco should still meet her claim for valuables. 
However, Tesco challenged some of the information provided by Mrs S in the updated 
information around the VAR. It says that the flooring can be fitted in two ways: one would be 
considered under a buildings insurance claim, but the other would be considered under a 
contents claim. It says a third valuation would help to clarify the significant differences in 
some of the jewellery valuations provided  and to assess whether the pawnbrokers 
valuation is based on second hand replacements. Tesco says that  even if it relies on the 
pawnbrokers valuation of £27,165 - as the valuables limit was set at £24,000 under the 
policy, the outcome remains that Mrs S was under insured and therefore its decision was 
correct. 
I dont think its clear that the information Mrs S provided in the VAR form is based on the 
contents of her home before the burglary. So I dont think Tesco can rely on it in deciding 
whether Mrs S total Sum Insured exceeded £100,000. I havent seen anything to show 
Tesco provided clear advice as to what it required from Mrs S when she submitted the VAR 
form over a year after she submitted her claim. 
So as things stand, I dont think Tesco has shown that its decision to avoid Mrs Ss policy for 
this reason was fair and in line with CIDRA. I dont think its clear that the total contents of 
Mrs Ss home exceeds £100,000. 
However, as the true valuable of the jewellery exceeded £24,000 with a Sum Insured total of 
£80,000, this means Tesco would never have offered cover to Mrs S through the comparison 
website. . 
Tesco says Mrs S misrepresentation was careless because she under insured the valuables 
and the total contents for her home. 
I agree that Mrs Ss misrepresentation was careless. I think its clear from the information 
provided to Tesco that she didnt know the value of several items of jewellery that had been 
stolen. I dont think she had arranged for the jewellery items to be valued for a number of years. While I understand there might have been valid reasons for not doing so, I dont think 
this means Tesco has treated Mrs S unfairly. 
As Im satisfied Mrs S misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Tesco can take in accordance with CIDRA. If Tesco had the right information about 
the valuables Sum Insured when Mrs S applied for the policy, this would have exceeded its 
limit of 30% of the total contents and been outside of its underwriting criteria. So Tesco says 
Mrs S wouldnt have been directed to their website to proceed with buying the policy. 
Im therefore satisfied that Tesco was entitled to avoid Mrs S policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, Tesco does not have 
to deal with Mrs S claim. However, Tesco has met part of Mrs S claim for general contents. 
But it says it wont look to recover these claim costs back from Mrs S. I think Tescos 
approach here is reasonable, given the length of time that passed before Tesco realised it 
needed further information to validate the valuables part of the claim. 
I think the actions of Tesco are in line with the remedies detailed in CIDRA based on 
careless misrepresentation. 
Mrs S says the compensation Tesco paid of £100 doesnt reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it caused or the impact of its decision. I think Tesco failed to notice in October 
2019 that the agents valuation of the stolen jewellery meant it needed to make further 
enquiries. Although a year passed before Tesco asked for further information, this was also 
due to Mrs S decision not to proceed with her claim during this time for other reasons. As 
Ive found Tescos decision to avoid the policy was fair, I dont think it owes Mrs S 
compensation for the impact of its decision. For its poor service in failing to ask for further 
information sooner, I think £100 compensation is a reasonable amount in this case. 
I appreciate Mrs S will be very disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not asking 
Tesco to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman