DRN-2904367
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
Mrs H is represented by a third party. 
What happened
Using information supplied by Mutual, here is a table of the approved loans, created by one 
of our adjudicators and adapted by me for this decision. 
The loans highlighted grey are ones which have been determined as outside our jurisdiction. 
Our understanding is that loans 15 and 16 remain outstanding. 
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedterm weekly rate
1 05/03/2011 30/11/2011 £800 51w £21.96
2 29/10/2011 05/09/2012 £500 51w £13.72
3 03/12/2011 01/08/2012 £1,000 51w £27.45
4 28/07/2012 05/06/2013 £1,500 51w £41.17
5 01/09/2012 31/07/2013 £1,000 51w £27.45
6 08/06/2013 05/03/2014 £1,000 51w £27.45
7 03/08/2013 04/06/2014 £1,000 51w £27.45
8 08/03/2014 24/12/2014 £1,000 51w £27.45
9 07/06/2014 15/04/2015 £1,000 51w £27.45
10 20/12/2014 16/09/2015 £1,000 51w £27.45
11 18/04/2015 25/11/2015 £1,000 51w £27.45
12 12/09/2015 01/06/2016 £1,000 51w £27.45
13 28/11/2015 22/06/2016 £1,000 51w £27.45
14 28/05/2016 21/12/2016 £1,000 51w £27.45
15 28/12/2016 Balance £1,440 102w £21.88
16 11/02/2017 Balance £1,000 51w £27.45
  
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Mutual should put things 
right for Mrs H for loans 10 to 16. He acknowledged that the first ten loans were not ones 
which could be reviewed by him, but he did think that they were relevant when considering 
the overall relationship. 
Mutual disagreed and sent many submissions as to why. They are not set out here in any 
detail but have been reviewed by me.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of 
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations which surround the sale of this 
type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. And our general 
approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice  are on our website. So, I dont intend to go into detail 
about those here. But a brief summary is below.
Mutuals response to our adjudicators opinion was substantial. This included points and 
issues relating to Mutual as a business in the lending market, the citation of published 
documents, the role of home credit lending, Mutuals view on repeat lending, and the 
provision of graphs to compare its repayments with high cost short term credit lenders.  
So, I have read all the submissions, but I have not addressed each one as this Service has 
addressed many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised in other final decisions. 
Where Mutual has raised points relevant to Mrs Hs circumstances or complaint I have 
referred to them where necessary. 
I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as does the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its identified high cost 
credit cohort. And while I note Mutuals loans have longer terms than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make them a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. 
And, as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has 
not said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside 
everything else in making my decision.
The evidence from both parties
Mrs H has completed a Claim Audit Form for her representative which she has said was 
accurate and correct. One part asked her about her income and expenditure during the time 
Mrs H was borrowing from Mutual. These details are unsatisfactory, and one reason for that 
was that the borrowing was over many years and so I do not envisage that these submitted 
figures in the Claim Audit Form are to apply to each of the years during which Mrs H 
borrowed from Mutual. This has not been made clear and so I do not know to which year 
these figures relate. And the sums on the Claim Audit Form are quite different from the 
figures submitted at the time of Mrs Hs applications to Mutual. Without more I am unsure 
whether they are accurate so I have considered them but given little weight to them. 
I have little evidence from Mutual about exactly what it did know about Mrs Hs financial 
situation when approving the loans. Its final response letter to her in October 2020 describes 
several of the applications checks it did or would have done. But Ive received no evidence 
of them apart from Mrs Hs application forms containing its agents handwritten notes and 
Mutual setting out details relating to Mrs Hs income and expenditure for the loan approved 
in February 2017, which was loan 16. These details for that loan 16 do not correlate with 
what it has sent to us as being the agents handwritten application for Mrs H for loan 16. So, 
I give that evidence little weight as it appears to contradict its own agents record.
Mutual has said that it carried out at least one credit search and it refers to one of them done 
just before loan 16, but no copy of the search result has been sent to me. So, although it 
relies on that in its FRL, I cannot consider that to be part of its submissions as no copies 
have been provided for me to review. 
Irresponsible lendingMutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Mrs H, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. Given the circumstances of Mrs Hs case, I think that this 
point was reached by loan 10. I explain why I think this in the following paragraphs. 
Mutual has said that a good repayment record indicated that there was no financial difficulty 
and that records of past repayment assisted in the decision making for Mutual to lend more. 
Past repayment record may be of some use but inevitably does not give the whole picture 
and if  as is often the case - people in debt borrow to repay loans, then Id expect a 
professional lender to have questioned that element and double checked it especially after 
years of being in debt as Mrs H was when she applied for loan 10. 
I acknowledge that the adjudicator said in his letter that by loan 10 Mrs H had been in debt 
for 21 months which was incorrect. The period was March 2011 to December 2014 which 
was the loan 10 application date. I have considered the debt period up to loan 10 as its one 
of the reasons that when she applied for loan 10 I do not think that Mutual was right to have 
lent more. I explain further here. 
The proximity in dates between receiving the loan 6 capital and Mrs H paying off loan 4 
suggests that its likely she used the money from loan 6 to assist her with the repayment of 
loan 4, or certainly that she used it to plug that gap inevitably left after repaying loan 4. Borrowing to repay debt is a clear indication of unsustainability. Or, as Mutual terms it  
refinancing - but the indications with Mrs H is that this was a regular feature up to loan 10 
and continued after loan 10. 
The consistency of the debt  around £1,000  and the consistency of the weekly 
repayments  around £27  for many years leads me to conclude that Mutual ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not that Ms H was reliant on that lending and Mr Hs 
indebtedness was unsustainable.
Mrs H didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. The pattern I have 
described earlier repeated itself when Mrs H applied for Loan 9. At that point Mrs H had just 
repaid loan 7 a few days earlier. And its highly likely that she used the capital from loan 9 to 
repay loan 7. And later in time, the application forms Mutual has sent to us included one for 
November 2015 when Mrs H was applying for a loan of £520 of which £480 was to be used 
to settle another loan. That looks to have been almost all of loan 13 being used to settle 
loan 11.  
Mutual disagrees with this idea of borrowers having to borrow to fill a previous vacuum 
created by repayments, but here are good examples of that likely having occurred more than 
once. Mrs H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mutual over a 
very long time.
I think that Mrs H lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 10 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Hs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period; and
the length of time over which Mrs H borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 10 to 16 and Ill go on to set out what 
Mutual should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has given its own explanations as to what it thinks the Judge 
meant where that Judge said that the relationship could be fair if there were a lower number 
of loans per year: for example, under four loans a year. Mutual has said, as it lent a lower 
amount than this to Mrs H, then this would indicate that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
The Judgment was about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different 
question, with some different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans had been 
lent irresponsibly. There might be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself 
shows that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the Court in this 
judgment was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home 
collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different 
considerations. And it has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of short 
term high cost credit providers. So, I dont think that the Judges conclusions about a 
differently structured product can be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done above.So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change the outcome about this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs H from loan 10, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mrs H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs H in a 
compliant way at that time. Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it 
would be fair or reasonable to conclude that Mrs H would more likely than not have taken up 
any one of these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case 
for what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mrs H loans 10 to 16. If it has sold the outstanding debts Mutual 
should buy these back if its able to do so and then take the following steps. If Mutual is not 
able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs H towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Mutual has already refunded; and
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs H  
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled; and
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mrs H having made overpayments then Mutual should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mrs H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Mutual should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with her. 
Mutual shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already 
written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Ms Hs borrowing for loans 10 to 16 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from Mrs H s credit 
file. 
Mutual do not have to remove loans 15 and 16 from Mrs Hs credit file until these have been 
repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse payment information recorded about 
these loans.
If Mutual intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mrs H owes, it must do this after tax. 
Mutual cannot carry out a set-off unless it owns the debt. 
*HMRC requires Mutual to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs H asks Mutual for a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off, Mutual should provide this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint in part and Mutual Clothing and Supply 
Company Limited should do as I have directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman