DRN-4076137
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost to an investment scam.
What happened
Miss A saw an advert on a social media app for an investment. It promised she could 
achieve significant returns by investing in cryptocurrency. Unfortunately, the investment 
opportunity wasnt genuine, but fraudulent. After corresponding with the fraudster, Miss A 
sent a payment of £1,000 to them. She was informed that her investment had grown to 
around £12,000 but shed need to pay a fee to release it. Miss A made a second payment of 
£690 on the same day. Later that day, Miss A spoke to a friend who suggested shed been 
scammed. The fraudster then claimed Miss A would need to make a further, larger, payment 
in order to release her profits. 
Miss A didnt make any further payments. She informed Revolut that she thought shed been 
the victim of a scam. It said that it wasnt responsible for her loss as it had provided a 
warning before she made the first payment and had tried to recover her money, but hadnt 
been successful. 
Miss A, through a representative, referred the matter to our service. She argued that Revolut 
had failed in its obligations under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code) to spot unusual and out of character transactions and had failed to take 
into account her vulnerabilities. 
One of our Investigators didnt uphold the complaint. They pointed out that Revolut werent 
signatories of the CRM Code. They also didnt think that Revolut would have any reason to 
be concerned about the transactions and were satisfied it had done what it could to recover 
Miss As money.   
Miss A didnt agree. She said that the payments were made to a new payee and ought to 
have been questioned by Revolut.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations is that Miss A is responsible for payments 
shes authorised herself. Revolut are not signatories to the CRM Code, so Im unable to 
consider this matter under its provisions. But taking into account regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time these payments were made, I think Revolut ought, fairly and reasonably, 
to have been on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions and other 
indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, Im afraid that I cannot agree that Revolut should have had any reason to think 
Miss A was falling victim to a scam. The payments were neither particularly unusual for her 
nor of a value which ought reasonably to have given Revolut any concern. While they were 
made on the same day, there was almost an hour between the payments and I cant see that 
any concerning pattern had emerged. I also note that Revolut did provide a warning before 
the first payment which covered off some broad scam risks. I think this was a proportionate 
response to the risk the payments presented. I also cant see that it would have been aware 
that Miss A had any vulnerabilities before it processed the payments.
Ive also considered Revoluts attempts to recover Miss As money. Evidence provided by 
the bank which received it shows that all of her funds were removed before she reported the 
matter to Revolut. So, it could not have recovered her money. 
I know this will be disappointing for Miss A and its clear shes been the victim of a cruel and 
cynical scam, but I dont find that Revolut are responsible for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman