DRN-2642109
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that they were mis-sold life cover by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
In summary, they say:
They were told they had to have life cover with their mortgage.
They didnt need additional life cover because they already had life cover (and 
employee benefits) in place at the time.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 27 January 2021, a summary of which is quoted below and 
forms part of this final decision, I didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs T say, Im unable to
safely conclude that the recommendation  to take out a joint decreasing term assurance
policy  which matched the term and amount of the (repayment) re-mortgage was
unsuitable.
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the
strength of feeling that Mr and Mrs T have about this matter.
Theyve provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised under a
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this
case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the 
pertinent points. Its also not for me to ask Lloyds questions on behalf of Mr and Mrs T and 
gather information.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs T and Lloyds, and reach what I
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather
than take any sides.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. It may be that a court in due course reaches a different decision because it has a 
different set of rules. That doesnt mean our approach, or my decision, is wrong.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs T have numerous detailed questions about what the business did
and why, including business procedure and protocol, but my decision to not seek answers to
these questions doesnt prevent me from reaching a decision in this case.
Its no surprise that given the passage of time  roughly over 23 years since the point of sale
 that more detail isnt provided about what was and wasnt said at the time. This isnt
something I can blame the business for. In any case, businesses arent required to retain
information indefinitely.
Despite what Mr and Mrs T say, Im unable to say that the recommendation is unsuitable.
I note the policy was written on a joint life first death basis, so in the event of Mr T, or Mrs T,
dying or contracting a specified illness, within the term of the policy and before the re-
mortgage was repaid, the recommended life policy was designed to fully repay the
outstanding borrowing. And the policy was designed to go down in line with the outstanding
loan amount, over the term of the re-mortgage. So, in the circumstances I don't think the
policy was an unsuitable recommendation.
Lloyds has confirmed that the policy wasnt a condition of the borrowing. Its possible that the
adviser strongly recommended Mr and Mrs T take out life cover to protect their additional
borrowing. If he did it, Im not persuaded that he was wrong to do so.
I also note that the policy started at a different time to the mortgage, and that this suggests
that the policy wasnt a condition of the borrowing. Im also aware that Mr and Mrs T signed
a declaration dated 18 May 1999 confirming that the advice was given based on the
information provided by them and that they were under no obligation to act upon any
recommendation made. So, Im unable to say that the advice wasnt given based on their
circumstances, but if Mr and Mrs T failed to mention something, I cant blame the adviser
who can only advise on the basis of the information provided.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T had other life cover in place at the time. Im conscious Mr T
refers to evidence of £60,000 worth of cover already in place, but this cover  made up of
two policies, with different terms  was earmarked for other purposes.
I note that because Mr and Mrs T had an existing endowment policy  taken out in 1997,
providing £30,000 worth of life cover  in 1999 they were advised to take out cover for the
balance of their re-mortgage which I dont think is unreasonable.
I note the 1994 policy was held by Mrs T, taken out for family protection and was for a term
of 16 years. It was due to expire in 2010, which was 12 years before the mortgage expiration
date. So, there was clearly a need to cover the additional borrowing.
Im mindful of the points made by Mr T about his employee benefits. It is the case that those
employee benefits would only have been available whilst he remained in that employment.
And even if he did stay in that employment  its only with the benefit of hindsight that we
can tell if he has  but there was no guarantee (at the time) that the benefits wouldnt be
withdrawn or changed in future by his employer.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ts points, the policy, in contrast, would continue to provide cover as
long as the premiums were paid. Despite what Mr T says, employee benefits arent generally
considered to be an adequate replacement for life cover for a mortgage. This is common
industry practice, and not something thats limited to Lloyds.
I appreciate that the policy started two months before the mortgage went live. Im not sure
why this was the case, but on the face of the evidence it doesnt look like this was intended
or foreseen by Lloyds.
Its likely that the policy started when it was meant to but there was a delay with the
mortgage going live, but whether or not it was the business fault (or the fault of a third-partybusiness), I dont think this error renders the recommendation itself unsuitable. It wouldve
been different if theyd been advised to take out a policy with a term that was twice the
length of their mortgage which clearly isnt the case here.
In other words, on the face of the evidence and on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs T were
advised to start their policy two months before the start of the mortgage, it unfortunately
happened that way, so I dont agree with Mr T that the policy was sold with an incorrect start
and end date.
Im also conscious that Mr and Mrs T had declined other recommendations in place of the
policy  which suggests that they were aware they had a choice as to whether (or not) they
went ahead with the policy.
I also note that Mr and Mrs T werent obliged to take out this insurance with Lloyds. If they
were unhappy with this, they were entitled to find another provider. I appreciate it wouldve
been inconvenient to do so as they were re-mortgaging in 1999, but at least they had that
option to try and find a different provider.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator, and still havent offered any redress. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't
what they want to hear. But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this
complaint and give them what they want.
Lloyds responded and said it had no further points to add. 
Mr and Mrs T also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. They maintain they 
were mis-sold life cover. Mr T asked a number of questions (that hed asked previously) but 
had no material new points to add. 
An example of the sort of questions asked and the points made, include the following:
When the ombudsman makes his final decision, he should consider the declaration 
signature page sent out by Lloyds for them to sign.
It doesnt state a cooling off period whatsoever. Does this declaration meet the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974?
They feel the monthly premium was too high for cover they had, but according to 
Lloyds they accepted this as a reasonable amount, which isnt correct. 
They did state that they didnt need the cover but were told that its best they do what 
it said in the paperwork. So, with that in mind they signed the paperwork in order to 
get the mortgage. 
Do lenders set up mortgage insurance for their mortgage agreements before the 
mortgage goes through?
Their family friends work in insurance and have never seen a mortgage insurance 
start before a mortgage agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. I dont uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs T say, Im unable tosafely conclude that the recommendation  to take out a joint decreasing term assurance
policy  which matched the term and amount of the (repayment) re-mortgage was
unsuitable.
Despite Mr and Mrs Ts response, I dont consider that any new points have been raised and 
the key points remain the same and have been considered by me in my provisional decision 
 I dont need any further explanation from Lloyds either. In other words, Im satisfied Ive 
considered all the points that are relevant to my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman