DRN-3186248
The complaint
 Mr R complained about Monese Ltd. He said Monese took too long to refund him when 
another organisations cash machine didnt dispense his money. He wants compensation.
 
What happened
 On 17 November 2020, Mr R tried to withdraw £100 from a third partys cash machine. The 
money debited his Monese account, but Mr R said the machine didnt dispense the money.
The next day, 18 November, Mr R contacted Monese. Monese said that it could raise a 
chargeback request and asked Mr R for full details, which he supplied. 
On 24 November, Monese told Mr R that it had raised a chargeback request with the third 
party cash machines owner. It also told Mr R that the chargeback response date was 10 
January 2021. Monese explained that this was because the other bank had 40 days to 
respond. And there would then be a few more days for processing the money, so an average 
waiting time was 45 days. Monese said it understood this wasnt ideal, but said there wasnt 
much it could do to speed it up.
Mr R replied the same day saying Im going to lose my house and everything because I 
cant pay my rent because Ive lost my money because of some stupid ATM its absolutely 
disgusting.  
Mr R chased again on 4 December. Monese repeated that legally the other bank had 40 
days to respond, and apologised for the inconvenience, but said there wasnt much it could 
do.
By 10 January, the date hed been told the chargeback should have a reply, Mr R hadnt had 
an outcome so he contacted Monese again. Monese chased the other bank, and the £100 
was credited to Mr Rs account on 11 January. 
But Mr R wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He wanted compensation, and said 
hed lost his temporary accommodation because he couldnt pay the rest of his rent, and he 
was homeless. He also said he couldnt get food for two weeks because the machine hadnt 
dispensed the £100.
Our investigator said that Monese didnt have any control over the timescale for the cash 
machine owner to investigate  which Monese had told Mr R at the outset. But as Mr M had 
told Monese that he needed the money to pay his rent, the investigator thought Monese 
should have offered Mr R a temporary refund. 
But the investigator saw that Mr R did have money in his account even after the disputed 
transaction took place. And some of the transactions after that had been for food and 
clothing. So her conclusion was that Monese didnt have to pay Mr R compensation, but 
should pay him interest at 8% on the disputed £100 from 18 November when he raised it, to 
11 January when it refunded him.
Monese agreed, but Mr R didnt. He wanted compensation, and said it had meant hed got 
evicted, and there had been a period of 16 days when he couldnt get any food whatsoever. 
He said he suffers from mental health difficulties and it was a stressful time for him. He 
asked for an ombudsman decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr R had to wait for the refund. But my job is to look at whether Monese was 
responsible for the delay, and whether or not it acted fairly within the rules.
The cash machine involved was owned and run by another organisation, not Monese. And 
its accurate that chargebacks have rules, including rules about how long is allowed for a 
reply. So I accept that Monese couldnt do anything about obtaining a reply in a shorter 
timescale than the 45 days it quoted to Mr R.
I also note that Monese told Mr R at the start that this was how long it would take for the third 
party organisation to reply. Ive also looked at what Monese did, and I can see that it raised 
the chargeback promptly. So I dont consider Monese did anything wrong in these respects.
What Monese didnt do was give Mr R a temporary credit. Theres nothing in the chargeback 
rules which says this has to happen. Some banks do provide this, but they dont have to. 
So Monese didnt technically do anything wrong in the way it dealt with Mr Rs complaint. But 
Ive considered whether Monese might reasonably have provided a temporary credit, 
because Mr R had told Monese in his 25 November email that it meant he couldnt pay his 
rent. I consider it would have been helpful  though not compulsory  for Monese to have 
offered Mr R a temporary credit until the chargeback was resolved. As it didnt, I find that 
Monese should pay Mr R interest from 18 November 2020 when he raised the complaint, to 
11 January 2021 when his account was credited. 
Mr R also wants compensation, as he told us that said hed lost his temporary 
accommodation because he couldnt pay the rest of his rent and was homeless. He also said 
he couldnt get any food for two weeks because the machine hadnt dispensed his £100. 
Compensation would only be payable if Monese had done something wrong. Here, Ive 
found there was nothing it could have done to get the problem sorted more quickly  it didnt 
own the cash machine and it didnt make the chargeback rules. Although I think it would 
have been helpful for Monese to have provided a temporary credit, it didnt break any rules 
by not doing so.
In considering Mr Rs request for compensation, Ive also looked at Mr Rs statements for 
this period. There was money in Mr Rs account throughout this time. Some of the 
transactions during this time were spent at food outlets  and there were some for other 
purposes. There were also credits into the account. 
So I dont agree that Monese should pay compensation as Mr R wants. 
Finally, after the investigator issued her view, Mr R said that he has mental health problems. 
Im sorry to hear this. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr R raised this with Monese at the time of the disputed transaction. So its not something I can take into account when 
considering whether or not Monese acted fairly.
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I order Monese Ltd to pay Mr R 
interest on £100 at 8% simple for the period between 18 November 2020, when he reported 
the disputed transaction, and 11 January 2021, when it was refunded to his account. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman