DRN-4305505
The complaint
Mr W has complained Freemans plc is continuing to ask him to repay a debt that he says 
isnt his.
What happened
Mr W got in touch with Freemans in late 2022 as they were asking him to repay a debt that 
wasnt his. They reminded him that hed been in touch back in October 2020 after splitting up 
from his partner. Theyd told him then that if they treated his complaint as fraud then no 
further payments could be made towards the debt. They couldnt now treat this as fraud.
Mr W had hoped that his ex-partner would continue making payments towards the debt  
and she did for some time. The last repayment was in November 2021. Mr W was now 
getting demands for payment but continued to state this debt wasnt his.
As Freemans wouldnt cancel the debt in Mr Ws name, Mr W brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed evidence and believed overall that this showed the agreement 
was originally taken out by Mr Ws ex-partner. He asked Freemans to cancel the debt in 
Mr Ws name.
Freemans didnt agree with this outcome. Theyve asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I can see the credit agreement was taken out in October 2018. The application details 
show Mr Ws ex-partners address and email address were used. Items were therefore 
delivered there, and statements were sent there too. It was only after Mr W split up from his 
partner, that he realised this agreement was in his sole name.
Theres no dispute that back then he reported this immediately to Freemans. He hoped that 
his ex-partner would continue to make payments so discouraged Freemans from treating 
this as fraud.
It appears that the main reason Freemans have for not agreeing this is fraud is that Mr W 
had the chance to agree it was fraud two years before he finally reported this but didnt take 
the opportunity then. This seems an odd stance when further repayments were made 
towards the debt lessening Freemans own liability.
It's difficult to tell what stance Freemans would have taken in October 2020 if Mr W had said 
then that this had been taken out fraudulently. Although I note that this is what he did say in 
all likelihood, just that he was put off reporting this as such because he was hopeful his ex-
partner would continue to make repayments. 
But the evidence, now as then, indicates that this account was opened without Mr Ws 
consent. I say this because the address details dont match the address registered to Mr W 
on his credit report. Im not completely sure how Freemans could have completed a 
successful address check. The email address linked to the account is also not Mr Ws. So I 
see no reason to doubt his testimony that he wasnt aware of this account until late 2020 
after his relationship came to an end. There is evidence of other accounts also taken out in 
his name fraudulently.
Taking all the evidence into account, I think its most likely Mr W didnt take the original credit 
agreement. Freemans cant continue to hold him liable for the outstanding debt.
Putting things right
As I believe Mr W didnt take out the credit agreement with Freemans, they will need to 
remove any outstanding liability and remove his name as associated with the debt.
I also expect them to remove mention of this credit agreement from Mr Ws credit record.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Freemans plc to:
Remove Mr Ws name from the disputed credit agreement;
Stop asking him to repay debt associated with this credit agreement; and
Remove any record of this agreement from Mr Ws credit record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman