DRN-4312122
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) 
allowed her to take out a loan without checking whether she could afford to repay it. 
What happened
Mrs P was advanced one loan of £550 on 1 July 2022. Mrs P was due to make five monthly 
repayments of £179.30 followed by a final payment of £178.51. The loan was repaid on 
23 December 2022. 
Following Mrs Ps complaint, Lending Stream wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to 
uphold her complaint. This was because the checks it carried out showed it that Mrs P could 
afford the loan repayments. Unhappy with this response, Mrs P referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an investigator. She firstly explained why the checks were 
proportionate, which showed Lending Stream the loan was affordable. She said that 
Lending Streams loan didnt breach the cost cap and it charged Mrs P the interest it said it 
would do. 
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators assessment saying the income recorded by 
Lending Stream wasnt accurate. At best, Mrs P says she couldve earned up to £2,000 per 
month. So, Mrs Ps disposable income wasnt as high as Lending Stream believed and a 
credit search wouldve shown a poor credit score, missed payments and a County Court 
Judgement. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that 
to help me decide this complaint. 
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mrs P could afford to pay back the 
amount shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances of the application. Lending Streams checks couldve 
taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size 
of the repayments, and Mrs Ps income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs P. These factors 
include:
Mrs P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs P. The investigator didnt consider 
this applied in Mrs Ps complaint because only one loan was granted and I agree.   
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mrs P could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs P was able 
to repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ps complaint.
As part of her application for the loan, Mrs P declared a monthly income of £4,600 from full 
time work for a healthcare trust. Lending Stream says it didnt feel it needed to make any 
adjustments to this income figure based on what it knew about Mrs P.  
Mrs P in her complaint form and in response to the investigations assessment has said that 
the amount of income she declared was incorrect and at best she could earn close to £2,000 
per month. But this wasnt reflected in the information Lending Stream was provided. 
I appreciate Mrs P says her job meant her income was effectively capped and she couldnt 
earn as much as has been noted by Lending Stream. But Lending Stream only knew her 
employer and not the exact job title. I also dont think, given what Lending Stream knew, that 
there was enough to make it believe there was a discrepancy or that what Mrs P had 
declared wasnt accurate. Lending Stream could only base its decision to lend on the 
information it received and gathered. For a first loan, I think it was entirely proportionate for it 
to use the income figure provided by Mrs P without the need to verify it.  
Mrs P also declared monthly outgoings of £467. This was broken down as £226 for normal 
expenses with £201 being attributed to credit commitments. Lending Stream says it looked 
at other information such as statistics that relate to the general population and it considered 
how much people typically spend with their income. Having carried out this further check, 
Lending Stream didnt make any adjustments to the expenditure figures provided by Mrs P. 
Therefore, the loan looked affordable. 
Before the loan was approved, Lending Stream also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary spreadsheet of the results it received 
from the credit reference agency. I want to add that, although Lending Stream carried out a 
credit search, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific 
standard.
Lending Stream was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit 
reference agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either prompted Lending Stream to have carried out further checks or 
possibly have declined Mrs Ps application.
Having looked at the credit check results, in my view there wasnt anything that wouldve 
prompted Lending Stream to have carried out further checks before either loan was 
advanced. 
Lending Stream knew Mrs P had 13 active accounts leading to an estimated monthly 
repayment to service those accounts of £563 per month. Now, these payments are larger 
than the commitments that Mrs P declared to Lending Stream as part of her application. So 
really Lending Stream ought to have used the figures it was given from the credit reference 
agency when thinking about Mrs Ps credit commitments. It didnt do this, but had 
Lending Stream what Id have expected to have done then I think it wouldve come to the 
same conclusion anyway. That Mrs P had sufficient disposable income to potentially afford 
the loan repayment. 
Lending Stream was told that Mrs P had defaulted on one account between 13 and 36 
months before the loan was approved. This was the only default recorded  which was more 
than a year before her application. And knowing that, I dont think Lending Stream wouldve 
been overly concerned given the timescales involved. Overall, there wasnt any signs from 
the credit check to indicate Mrs P was in financial difficulties, or to have prompted 
Lending Stream to have carried out further checks.  
As this was the first and only loan, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to have 
relied on the information Mrs P provided to it  which showed she had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything to suggest that Mrs P was 
having either current financial difficulties or to indicate the loan repayments would be 
unsustainable for her. This has led me to conclude that I it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream to have advanced the loan.  
Finally, the investigator addressed concerns that Mrs P had around the interest that she was 
charged. Having looked at the credit agreement, this set out how much each payment would 
be and how each payment would be split between the capital she borrowed and the interest 
due.  Ive reviewed the statement of account and Lending Stream has collected the amount 
of money it said it would do under the terms of the agreement, so I cant say an error has 
been made. 
Since January 2015, there has been a cost cap which was implemented by the industry 
regulator. Which in summary said a lender cant collect more than 100% of the amount 
borrowed, including interest fees and charges. In this case, that would be a maximum 
repayment to Lending Stream of £1,100. Having looked at the credit agreement and the 
statement of account, Lending Stream collected £1,075, which is under the cost cap and so 
Lending Stream doesnt need to take any further action. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman