DRN-3037642
The complaint
Mr N complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited avoided his motor insurance 
policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr N took out a car insurance policy with Advantage through a price comparison website. 
When Mr N was involved in an accident, he tried to make a claim on his policy.
Advantage said hed answered the question incorrectly when asked about modifications to 
his car. And it considered this to be a careless misrepresentation, which entitled it to decline 
his claim, avoid his policy and return his premium.
Mr N says he hadnt modified the car since it came into his ownership. He says the seller 
told him the car had the sports package added by the manufacturer. And hed assumed the 
modifications were part of the package so didnt question anything that had been done to the 
car. 
Advantage said the onus was on Mr N to ensure the information on his application was 
accurate. It said the modifications to his car were visible and were not concealed, and he 
had not asked important questions to the seller when he bought his car.
Mr N brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation, and believed it was careless. They 
thought Advantage was entitled to avoid Mr Ns policy and decline his claim.
Mr N doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
says the car was 15 to 16 years old and had 7 previous owners. The modifications were so 
subtle he wasnt aware of them and the car didnt have a body kit, if it did it would have 
looked differently to similar cars.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage thinks Mr N failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he stated in his application that there werent any modifications to his car. So, Ive looked at 
the questions asked on the comparison site.
Firstly, the site makes the assumption that the car had not been modified but asks whether 
these details were correct, and Mr N would have answered yes to this question. It then goes 
on to ask if the car had been modified and provides prompts on what would be considered a 
modification. For example, it suggests changes to the exhaust or body work would be 
considered a modification. Having considered this, I think there were clear questions asked. 
Ive looked at adverts for similar cars to Mr Ns that also included the sports package and I 
must agree with Advantage here, I find some of the modifications to his car were quite 
evident, such as the tinted windows and spoiler. So, I dont think he took reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when he said his car had not been modified. 
Advantage has provided its underwriting criteria which shows that if it had the correct 
information it would not have offered him cover. This means Im satisfied Mr Ns 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
It also says Mr Ns misrepresentation was not deliberate or reckless, but it was careless 
because the modifications to his car where visible and werent concealed, but he failed to 
declare them when he applied for his policy.  
I dont think Mr Ns misrepresentation was deliberate and I accept that he may have thought 
the modifications were part of the sports package added by the manufacturer. But he had a 
responsibility when he bought it to check what modifications had been made, and I dont 
think he did. I also find the modifications were such that it should have at least prompted him 
to enquire with the seller whether they were part of the sports package or added separately. 
At the very least, Mr N could have checked with Advantage whether the modifications to his 
car needed to be declared. So, I find his misrepresentation to have been careless. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ns misrepresentation should be treated as careless, not deliberate or 
reckless, Ive looked at the actions Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA. It allows 
an insurer to avoid the policy and decline any claims, if it wouldnt have provided cover had 
the misrepresentation not happened. And it says it should return any premiums paid towards 
the policy. Therefore, Im satisfied Advantage was entitled to avoid Mr Ns policy and return 
his premium. And, as this means in effect, it can treat his policy as never existing, Advantage 
does not have to deal with his claim following his accident. 
Mr N says Advantages agents asked him to pay for the storage of his car, but he doesnt 
think this is fair. He says he didnt ask it to store his car. I understand Mr Ns frustrations, but 
usually when a car is declared a category B loss as was the case here, it is considered 
unroadworthy and would not be returned to its owner. Considering the level of damage, it 
sustained, Advantage offered to scrap it on Mr Ns behalf, which he accepted. As such, Mr N 
hasnt had to pay the additional charges, and so I dont find hes lost out.  I know this will be disappointing to Mr N, but considering all this, I dont think Advantage 
need to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman