DRN-3781964
The complaint
Mr F complains that more 2 life Ltd would not allow him to port his lifetime mortgage to 
another property. As a result he has had to repay the mortgage and incurred an early 
repayment charge (ERC). He wants more 2 life to refund it. 
What happened
In 2019, a third-party broker recommended that Mr F should take a lifetime mortgage with 
more 2 life. 
In 2021, Mr F asked to port the mortgage to a new property. But more 2 life declined the 
application. It said that it wouldnt lend on blocks of flats that are more than six storeys high  
and the building Mr F wanted to move to was higher than that. 
Later in 2021, Mr Fs broker asked more 2 life if he could port the mortgage to a different 
property. But again more 2 life said he could not do so because it was more than six storeys 
high. Mr F disputes that the new building is more than six storeys high. He repaid the 
mortgage and incurred an ERC. 
Mr F complains that he was led to believe he could transfer the mortgage to another property 
without any fuss, he was not made aware of any restrictions on that and more 2 life was 
wrong to decline the application for the second property as it was not more than six storeys 
high. The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr F did not accept what the investigator said. He said that when he took out the mortgage 
more 2 life did not give him (as a consumer) enough information about the lending conditions 
that would apply if he chose to port the mortgage. The ability to port was as significant factor 
in his decision to take the lifetime mortgage. He was not able to make a fully informed 
decision because more 2 life did not disclose what its lending conditions were. By the time 
he found out it was too late as hed already entered into the contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The lifetime mortgage was sold by a third-party broker. It was required to take reasonable 
steps to find out what Mr Fs needs and circumstances were, to recommend a mortgage that 
was suitable for him and to give him clear, fair and not misleading information. If Mr F had 
said that moving home was a possibility, it was for the broker to recommend a mortgage that 
was suitable for him and to explain any limitations to that so that Mr F could make an 
informed choice what to do. 
The mortgage offer set out that Mr F may be able to transfer the mortgage to another 
home. It goes on to say that the new property must meet its lending conditions. I dont see 
how that could reasonably be interpreted to mean that more 2 life would allow the mortgage 
to be ported to any property. It was always subject to it meeting its lending criteria. 
Ultimately, it was for Mr Fs broker to obtain clarification if that was needed to make sure the 
mortgage met his needs. I dont consider there was any requirement for the lender to set out 
what its lending criteria was in any more detail. 
I consider the application to transfer the mortgage to the first property was declined fairly by 
more 2 life. Its lending criteria only allow lending on blocks over six storeys height unless a 
prestigious block & approved by funder. The first property was more than six storeys high. 
The lender said it had no definition of whether a block was prestigious. But it was for its 
funder to decide if a block was prestigious or not  and this would usually mean something 
valued over a £1million. I consider it was for the lender to apply its discretion here and it has 
not acted unreasonably in doing so.
There was no formal application made for the second property that Mr F went on to buy. Mr 
Fs broker asked more 2 life informally if it would lend on the property  and it said it would 
not. The property was described by the broker as having 7 floors (there is a basement) and 
another part rises to 8 floors. So it was reasonable for more 2 life to understand that the 
property was over six storeys in height and therefore outside its lending criteria. Again, I 
cant see that it acted unfairly in deciding the property was not prestigious. 
The offer stated that the loan and any accrued interest would become payable upon the sale 
of Mr Fs home in a number of circumstances, including if transferring the property did not 
meet more 2 lifes lending conditions. The offer also sets out clearly and prominently that an 
ERC would apply of the mortgage was repaid and the circumstances when it would not 
apply. I consider more 2 life has applied the ERC in line with the mortgage offer. 
I understand why Mr F is unhappy. But I dont consider more 2 life has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. The ability to transfer the mortgage was not guaranteed  it was always 
subject to its lending conditions. Im satisfied that it has applied those conditions fairly in the 
circumstances here and that it has charged an ERC in line with the terms of the mortgage Mr 
F agreed to. Mr F knew that the property he bought wasnt acceptable to more 2 life but he 
chose to go ahead with his sale and purchase anyway. here
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman