DRN-3890487
The complaint
Mrs L complains about delays and incomplete repair work arranged by Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) following a claim for accidental damage under her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ls car was damaged when a chimney fell on it during strong winds in February 2022. 
She claimed to Admiral and says it eventually arranged for the car to be inspected. Mrs L 
says that when the car was being towed away, she had turned the engine on. She noticed 
the display screen was flickering. She says she phoned Admiral at the time and it confirmed 
the screen would be included in the repairs.   
Mrs L says there was a delay before Admiral confirmed it would carry out the work. When 
she collected the car after repairs were complete several weeks later, she noticed straight 
away the screen hadnt been fixed. The garage told her this wasnt included in the repair 
instructions. After some following up Mrs L says the screen was eventually fixed. However, 
there was a fault with the audio that meant she couldnt hear people when making calls. 
Mrs L says she contacted Admiral about this issue. The car was taken to the garage, but no 
courtesy car was provided. Mrs L says she managed to get Admiral to pay some taxi costs. 
The car was returned to her, but the garage says it needed authorisation to repair the issue. 
Mrs L says an inspector was arranged to review the problem. No-one came to inspect. Mrs L 
chased this up and was told the issue wasnt the garages fault. After a further two weeks 
she says Admiral offered £134 so she could arrange a fix herself. 
Mrs L thinks Admiral should arrange for her car to be fixed. She doesnt think its fair to 
expect her to arrange this for such a small amount of money. She also says this matter has 
been really stressful and has taken up in excess of ten hours of her time. 
Admiral apologised that the display screen wasnt repaired initially. It also apologised for the 
time Mrs L spent chasing for updates and paid her £75 compensation for this. Admiral says it 
didnt think the audio issue was related to the claim. However, it opted to settle on a cash 
basis by paying £135.85, which it estimated the repair would cost. It says it needed to 
investigate whether it was responsible for this work, which took some time. It also says Mrs L 
couldnt be contacted for a period. 
Mrs L approached our service. One of our investigators considered the matter and upheld 
her complaint. She says the audio and display screen issue shouldve been dealt with at the 
outset. She also says it was reasonable for Admiral to pay compensation, but she thought a 
total of £235 was fair to recognise the poor service, communication issues, and the delays.
Admiral didnt respond to accept our investigators decision, so its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read the claim records provided by Admiral to see if the issue with the display screen 
was mentioned. Theres an entry dated 4 February 2022 that says, Electrical faults with 
screen  flickering. A later entry on 9 February refers to an email sent to Mrs L. It says, I 
have emailed the garage advising of the GPD/SATNAV issue to make sure this is included in 
the estimate.
I think this reasonably shows the issue with the display screen was known about from an 
early stage. Certainly, before repairs commenced. 
I can see a complaint was raised around this time. The notes state it hadnt yet been 
identified if the car was repairable. Due to the time taken to get to this point and for its poor 
communication, Admiral paid Mrs L £60. And for the lack of use of her car whilst it was at the 
garage it paid her £70. I note it also arranged for a hire car to be provided at this time.
I understand the garage was busy due to a lot of work caused by the recent storm, which 
delayed the assessment of Mrs Ls car. In the circumstances I think Admiral acted fairly by 
paying her compensation for the inconvenience this caused and in arranging a hire car. 
The records show Mrs Ls car was repaired in March 2022. But the screen wasnt, which she 
highlighted. A note dated 14 March says, Havent done the console damage as it keeps 
falling out. The note mentions that the only damage was electrical damage to the screen, 
not that it was falling out. The records indicate there was some confusion between the work 
Admiral had authorised and what the repairer thought it had. Admiral confirmed the garage 
could outsource the diagnostics to a main dealer. I can see that another complaint was 
raised by Mrs L at this time. 
The records from the beginning of April 2022 refer to the diagnosis obtained from the main 
dealer. This says there was a fault with the unit which is linked to the touch screen. It says 
the remedy is to replace the unit. An internal note dated 4 April confirms Admiral was willing 
to authorise the repairs. Albeit the notes show its engineers questioned that this damage 
occurred as a result of the storm damage claim. I can see that a hire car was provided to 
Mrs L whilst these investigations were ongoing. 
The work to replace the damaged unit was carried out by Admirals approved repairer. After 
this was completed, in mid-April 2022, the records show a connectivity issue was reported 
by Mrs L when making calls in her car. The notes say Admiral agreed to cover this issue if it 
was connected to the repairs previously carried out by its repairer. It says no hire car was to 
be provided. But I can see the business agreed to cover the cost of Mrs Ls taxi fare home 
after dropping her car off. 
The records then show that Admiral wanted an independent assessor to determine the 
cause of the fault. It says Mrs L believed this was caused by the repairs the garage had 
carried out. But it wouldnt authorise work unless its repairer was at fault. With reference to 
Admirals approved repairer the records say:
they dont know who caused this, because this was not checked prior to the repairs. 
The need for an independent assessor was confirmed to Mrs Ls husband on 27 April 2022.An email was then sent to Mrs L in mid-May 2022 to say a decision had been made by 
Admirals in-house engineers. This asked for her to call back. The records show this was to 
inform Mrs L that Admiral would cover the cost of the additional work. 
A later note says Mrs L was unhappy as she had been told an assessor was due to visit, but 
they didnt turn up when expected. Admiral subsequently offered to pay £135.85 for Mrs L to 
arrange for the connectivity issue to be repaired herself.
Ive seen the quote Admiral obtained from a different garage for the connectivity issue to be 
repaired. The cost is confirmed as £135.85. 
Ive given thought to Mrs Ls view that Admiral shouldve arranged the repairs in full, and her 
concerns that the settlement payment wouldnt cover the cost of the repairs needed. I can 
understand her concerns and I think its reasonable that shed expect a fully working system 
once repairs were complete. However, from the information Ive seen Mrs L will be able to 
get the repairs completed, at the garage identified, and the cost will be covered by the 
settlement payment Admiral provided. In the circumstances I think this is fair. But should the 
cost of repairs exceed this amount then its reasonable that Admiral should pay the 
difference.     
Ive also thought about the standard of customer service Mrs L experienced. I think this 
couldve been better. The onus appears to have been for Mrs L to find out what was 
happening and to try and progress matters. Issues with the display screen were highlighted 
at an early stage. It shouldnt be the case that issues remained after the repairs were 
completed. Similarly, the indication is that the system in question wasnt checked prior to 
releasing the car back to Mrs L. This meant further time and hassle arranging for the 
connectivity issue to be resolved. 
I agree with our investigator that Admiral should compensate Mrs L for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. An additional £100 on top of the payment it has already provided is 
fair to recognise this. 
Our investigator referred to Admiral having paid Mrs L a total of £135 in compensation. I 
dont think this is accurate. From the records this was actually £130 made up of two 
payments of £60 and £70. But I dont think this discrepancy has a material impact. The 
intention was for Admiral to pay an additional £100, which is what I will now require. 
Mrs L says the compensation cheque she received from Admiral was ripped, so she hasnt 
been able to cash it. If it hasnt already done so Admiral should re-provide this payment 
along with the further £100 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
reimburse Mrs L if the cost of repairs comes to more than the settlement offer it paid; 
and 
pay Mrs L a further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman