DRN-2933467
The complaint
Ms Z complains because Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) stopped 
paying a claim under her income protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms Z holds a group income protection insurance policy, provided by L&G. She was
receiving claim payments under the policy as she was unable to work.
In late 2019, L&G asked Ms Z to attend cognitive testing, as it said previous medical
evidence indicated that cognitive issues were preventing her from returning to work. Ms Z
told L&G that she didnt feel cognitive testing was appropriate.
In early 2020, L&G suspended Ms Zs claim payments under the policy but these were
later reinstated as it was unable to arrange cognitive testing due to the circumstances
surrounding Covid-19.
In June 2020, L&G received a completed members continuation statement from Ms Z. In
this statement, Ms Z said she had several symptoms and conditions including cognitive
issues, thyroid issues and postural tachycardia syndrome.
In August 2020, L&G wrote to Ms Zs GP to ask a list of questions about Ms Zs
symptoms and medical conditions. Some of these questions related to Ms Zs ability to
attend cognitive testing. L&G also asked Ms Zs GP for copies of her medical records from
1 December 2018 up until August 2020. Ms Zs claim payments under the policy stopped
in August 2020, pending receipt of this medical information by L&G.
Ms Zs GP responded to L&G in October 2020 with answers to the questions it had asked.
The GP didnt provide L&G with the medical records it had asked for, as Ms Z withdrew her
consent to these being released.
Unhappy, Ms Z complained to L&G about its request for her medical records, the
questions it had asked her GP and the conduct of one of its case handlers, amongst other
things.
L&G said it had only asked Ms Zs GP for her medical records relating to a specific period
of time which was relevant to her claim and suggested she could redact certain information
which she considered sensitive from her records. L&G said the questions it asked Ms Zs
GP were intended to understand all the possible reasons for her incapacity, and it wasnt
suggesting that the reasons for Ms Zs absence were all psychological.
As the situation remained unresolved, Ms Z brought a complaint to the attention of our
service.
L&G subsequently considered a number of additional medical reports which Ms Z
provided, dated at various points between December 2019 and February 2021. L&G said,
having considered this information, it would need Ms Zs medical records from December
2019 (not from December 2018 as previously requested). L&G said, depending on the
information contained in Ms Zs medical records, it may need a further medical opinion
from a relevant doctor or specialist.
Ms Z didnt provide consent for these medical records to be released. She said the policy
wording didnt entitle L&G to ask for this information, and the evidence shed already
provided was sufficient proof that she was unable to work. But Ms Z said she was happy to
have an occupational health assessment.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think L&G had acted
unfairly and that it needed medical information from January 2020 to satisfy itself that Ms Z
continued to meet the policy criteria for a benefit to be paid.
I made my provisional decision about this complaint in June 2021. In it, I said:
Ms Z has raised a number of complaint points about L&G, but I dont intend to address
each one individually  nor am I obliged to. Instead, I intend to focus on what I think is the
key issue. This is whether I think L&G acted unfairly when terminating Ms Zs claim.
Its not part of my role to reach my own medical conclusions about Ms Zs medical
conditions and/or her ability to work, or to substitute expert medical opinion with my own.
Instead, Ive considered whether I think L&G acted fairly and reasonably based on the
available medical evidence in this case.
The policy which Ms Z is insured under allows L&G to ask for medical evidence to satisfy
itself that Ms Z remains unable to work at reasonable intervals
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
Payment of this benefit will be subject to us receiving all of the following;
ii. Evidence satisfactory to us that an insured member is a disabled member. For this
purpose, no benefit will be payable if your consent or that of the insured member is
required and such consent is not given.
The policy also says:
Termination of Benefit
We will immediately end payment of benefit if:
vii. there is a delay on your part or that of the disabled member in producing
satisfactory evidence of entitlement to benefit which in our opinion is prejudicial to our
consideration of such entitlement
I appreciate Ms Z found some of the questions which L&G asked her GP upsetting.
However, L&G is entitled to make reasonable enquiries about the full extent of Ms Zs
medical symptoms on an ongoing basis  regardless of any sensitivity surrounding these
symptoms - so I cant fairly say the questions it asked her GP were inappropriate. These are
enquiries of the type that I would generally expect an insurer to make when assessing a
claim of this nature so I also cant fairly say the questions were discriminatory.
I understand Ms Z has provided statements from her GP that she is unfit to work but I
wouldnt normally consider such statements alone to be persuasive or sufficient evidence
that someone is unable to work for the purposes of an income protection insurance policy.Its not unusual for an insurer to ask for medical records from a policyholders GP in these
circumstances, nor do I think its unreasonable. Contemporaneous medical notes can be
important in helping an insurer build a picture of the full background to and prognosis of an
insured member.
L&G didnt ask for Ms Zs full medical records from her GP. It originally asked for her
medical records from December 2018, which was the start of her period of absence from
work and said certain parts of these notes could be redacted if Ms Z wished. Ms Z
consented to L&G accessing her medical records when she completed the members
continuation statement and I dont think this was an unreasonable request by L&G.
L&G has since amended its request and has said it will accept Ms Zs medical notes from
December 2019/January 2020, but it may require further clarification or an independent
assessment depending on the content of these notes. This request was made on the
recommendation of L&Gs medical officer after reviewing all the medical evidence which
Ms Z subsequently made available to it. This included letters and reports from Ms Zs
consultant endocrinologists, her consultant in diabetes, endocrinology and general internal
medicine, her consultant allergist and her GP.
L&Gs medical officer concluded that access to Ms Zs GP clinic notes and NHS clinic
letters would be beneficial to better understand the chronology of events, Ms Zs
symptoms and conditions as well as her motivation for resuming work and her functional
ability.
Ive taken into account all the available medical evidence (including, but not limited to the
letter from Ms Zs GP dated 18 February 2021 stating she is not currently ready to return
back to work). Ive given weight to this letter, as well as to the letters from Ms Zs
consultants. These are medical professionals who have seen and treated Ms Z. However, I
must also give weight to the qualifications and comments of L&Gs medical officer, and I
think L&Gs medical officers opinion is persuasive.
I understand Ms Zs GP asked L&G to consider a formal occupational health assessment,
and Ms Z has said she is prepared to attend such an assessment. However, I dont think
its unfair or unreasonable for L&G to rely on the recommendations of its medical officer and
request Ms Zs medical notes from December 2019/January 2020 so it can fully consider
and understand all the relevant medical information before making any further decisions
about which type of medical expert is best placed to assess Ms Z and whether her claim
can continue to be paid.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms Z. I have no doubt she has been ill, and that this situation will
have been distressing for her. However, I dont intend to ask L&G to do anything further.
If Ms Z wishes for L&G to consider reinstating her claim, then shell need to provide it with
her medical notes from January 2020 to date. L&G will then review this information and
decide what  if any  further evidence it requires. This may include requiring Ms Z to
undergo an independent medical assessment.
I understand Ms Z has had no income while this complaint has been ongoing, but Im
satisfied there were no unreasonable or excessive delays by L&G from December 2019. Any
delays prior to this date have already been addressed in a separate complaint which Ms Z
brought to our service.
L&G has provided evidence that it paid Ms Zs claim to the policyholder (her employer)
until August 2020. If Ms Z didnt receive any payments between May 2020 and August
2020 then shed need to take this matter up with her employer directly.So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Ms Zs complaint. 
L&G made no further comments in response to my provisional decision. Ms Z didnt agree 
with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Ms Zs additional comments, but I wont be changing my provisional 
decision. 
I understand Ms Z says she holds an own occupation policy, but this isnt relevant to the 
issues which Im considering in this complaint. Ive already explained that I havent reached 
my own conclusions about Ms Zs ability to work  its not my role to do that. Ive carefully 
reviewed all the medical information provided by Ms Z, which I specifically referenced in my 
provisional decision, but Ive explained why I think L&Gs medical officers opinion carries 
more weight. 
Its not for me to make a finding on the legality of L&G seeking access to Ms Zs medical 
records  thats a matter for the courts. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal 
alternative to the courts. I have regard to the law when reaching a decision, but the law is 
just one of a number of relevant considerations under our rules and my overriding remit is to 
decide what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a particular case. 
Ive already seen and considered the emails dated December 2020 which Ms Z provided in 
response to my provisional decision. I understand Ms Z finds the content of these emails 
offensive, but her comments on this point dont change my decision about what information I 
think L&G is reasonably entitled to ask Ms Z for. 
I note that Ms Z has offered L&G the opportunity to write to her consultants but the 
information which L&G has asked for is Ms Zs medical notes from January 2020 and, for the 
reasons I outlined in my provisional decision, I dont think this is an unfair or unreasonable 
request by L&G.  
If Ms Z wishes for L&G to consider reinstating her claim, then shell need to provide it with 
her medical notes from January 2020 to date. For the avoidance of doubt, this is all Ms Zs 
medical notes  not just those that relate to certain medical conditions. However, L&G has 
already said Ms Z can redact any information which she considers sensitive from these 
notes. 
L&G will then review this information and decide what  if any  further evidence it requires. 
This may include requiring Ms Z to undergo an independent medical assessment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Leah NagleOmbudsman