DRN-3707323
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt credited his 
account with a payment he made via an ATM. He believes it has lost his money. 
What happened
Mr C said he made a payment of £600 at the ATM on 23 April 2022 between 3 and 4pm at a 
city centre branch.
The bank said it checked that machine and they couldnt find the deposit envelope for Mr C. 
It also checked the machine physically and there was no lodgement envelope for Mr C. It 
also checked the ATM journal and the machine doesnt show a deposit being made by Mr C. 
The machine also balanced which meant there was no missing envelope with Mr Cs £600. 
So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
The bank also checked Mr Cs account and saw that he made another deposit of £400 in 
another branch on 25 April 2022 and then also deposited £200 at that branch over the 
counter. Lastly it saw Mr C made a deposit in the city centre branch of £60 on 22 April 2022. 
So, it remained of the view that there was no record of Mr Cs lodgement of £600 through 
this ATM. 
Mr C then brought his complaint to us. He also complained that he thought money had gone 
missing from his account since 2012. Our investigator has explained that would be a 
separate issue Mr C could raise with the bank  as here, were only considering the £600 
dispute.
 
The investigator was of the view that Mr Cs complaint should not be upheld as there was no 
evidence that he had made the deposit using that ATM in that branch.
 
Mr C didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
I do appreciate and understand that Mr C will be disappointed with me decision. The 
regulations that deal with this sort of issue are called The Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs). They say the following: 
75. - (1) Where a payment service user:
(b) claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
 it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction 
was authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service 
providers accounts and not affected by a technical breakdown or some other 
deficiency in the service provided by the payment service provider.
Mr C is the payment service user and Halifax is the payment service provider. From the 
banks investigation into Mr C it has shown me that the particular ATM didnt have Mr Cs 
envelope containing £600, and that that envelope wasnt stuck in the machine anywhere. It 
didnt show up on the log which records every transaction, made on the machine on the day 
Mr C said he deposited the money. And the machine balanced which it couldnt have done if 
Mr Cs envelope was in the machine. 
So, from my point of view the bank has checked what it ought to have checked to see if Mr 
Cs envelope had been deposited into that machine. I know Mr C has questioned if CCTV is 
available, but the bank has explained it couldnt get this. So, it falls to me to decide whats 
more likely based on the evidence I do have. And there is no evidence of the deposit Mr C 
says has gone missing.  
The bank also checked Mr Cs account and found he had previously lodged £60 into this 
branch on 22 April 2022. And that he lodged £400 through an ATM at another branch on 25 
April 2022 and that also he deposited £200 over the counter at that same branch on 25 April 
2022, as well. So, whilst I dont doubt Mr C believes he deposited £600 in an envelope in this 
machine at this branch, there is simply no evidence in the banks systems that this occurred. 
However, the same amount of money was deposited in another branch some two days later 
instead.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman