DRN-4273536
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard defaulted her credit 
card account.
What happened
Miss C took out at credit card account with Barclaycard in August 2021. In April 2022, Miss 
C started to pay less than the minimum amount due. Miss C cleared the arrears on the 
account in August 2022. But after this, began paying less than the minimum due again, and 
sometimes missing payments. 
Arrears built up on the account, and as a result, Barclaycard defaulted the account in 
February 2023. 
Miss C says she didnt receive any communication from Barclaycard about the default before 
it happened  importantly she says she didnt receive a notice of default. She says that if she 
had got this, then she would have paid the outstanding balance in full prior to the default 
having been issued. 
Miss C says that when she contacted Barclaycard on 6 March 2023, she was told not to pay 
off the balance. And she was waiting for someone at Barclaycard to contact her. She says 
she then received a text message from a third-party debt purchaser stating that they were 
the new owners of the debt  she doesnt think it was fair of Barclaycard to sell the debt, 
especially given that she told Barclaycard she wanted to pay it off in full. 
As a resolution to the complaint, Miss C would like Barclaycard to remove the default from 
her credit file.
Barclaycard responded to Miss Cs complaint and upheld it in part. It offered her £25, 
because it didnt log her complaint when she called it on 6 March 2023. However, it 
maintained that the default was being reported correctly. Unhappy with this response, Miss 
C referred her complaint to this service. 
An Investigator considered what both parties had said, but they didnt think Barclaycard 
needed to do anything more for Miss C. The Investigator noted that Barclaycard hadnt been 
able to provide us with an actual copy of the default notice, but they thought theyd seen 
enough evidence to satisfy themselves that it was sent to Miss C. 
Miss C didnt agree. She felt that the fact Barclaycard couldnt provide a copy of the default 
notice supports what she said about her not having received it. And she also explained the 
potential impact of the default on her. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken everything into account, Im sorry to disappoint Miss C, but I wont be 
upholding her complaint.
Ive looked at the payment history on Miss Cs account in the months leading up to the 
default. I can see that payments were sporadic, and when they were made, it was for less 
than the minimum amount due, and so arrears built up on the account. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) provides guidance about when an account 
should default, which this service generally finds to be a fair approach. The ICO says an 
account should default when it is between three to six months in arrears. When Miss Cs 
account defaulted on 24 February 2023, her account was in arrears by four months. Im 
satisfied that Barclaycard defaulted the account in line with guidance provided by the ICO, 
and I find that it has acted fairly and reasonably here.
The crux of the matter stems from Miss C saying she didnt receive the default notice. And 
so, she wasnt provided with sufficient notice to repay the arears before the account 
defaulted.  
It is disappointing that Barclaycard hasnt been able to provide a copy of the default notice it 
says it sent to Miss C. But I dont necessarily think this means that it didnt send one. I can 
see from its internal system notes that a notice of default was sent to Miss C on 7 January 
2023, and so, on balance, I think this is more likely to be the case. Miss C has confirmed that 
she had received some of Barclaycards other letters, which satisfies me that the 
correspondence was being sent the correct address. Barclaycard has also provided 
evidence of the address it holds for Miss C on its systems which also appears to be correct. 
It isnt clear why Miss C didnt receive the default notice, but Im persuaded Barclaycard did 
what it needed to do by sending it. 
Given that Miss C didnt receive the notice of default, Ive thought about whether it was 
reasonable of Miss C to have known that arrears were building up on the account. I have 
seen evidence from Barclaycard that it had tried to contact Miss C by post, phone and SMS 
to discuss the debt. I have seen copies of letters sent to Miss C in November and December 
2022  these both explain that the account is in arrears. The letters also state that if the 
arrears arent cleared, the account could default. Based on everything Ive seen, I think Miss 
C was aware her account was in arrears, and she ought to have been aware that the 
account could default if she didnt clear the arrears. 
Overall, I find that Barclaycard has fairly defaulted the account, and I wont be asking it to 
remove the default from her credit file.
I am sorry to have read Miss Cs comments about the impact the default will have on her. 
However, Barclaycard have a responsibility to record accurate information with the credit 
reference agencies about how someone has managed their account  which I think it has 
done. 
I have also thought about what Miss C has said about having repaid the account in full after 
receiving notification of the default. But this doesnt change my view on this case. Miss C 
was aware, or at least should have been aware that her account was in arrears from 
November 2022, so she could have cleared the arrears earlier than she did, which would 
have prevented the default. I can see Barclaycard sold the debt to a third-party after it defaulted the account. This is 
fairly normal once an account has defaulted. The terms and conditions of the account also 
allow Barclaycard to transfer ownership of the debt. So, I dont find that it did anything wrong 
in doing this. 
I note Miss C has also said that she experienced some poor service from Barclaycard during 
a phone call  where it wouldnt take payment from her, and it didnt log her complaint. I can 
see Barclaycard has already agreed to pay Miss C £25 for not logging the complaint earlier. I 
think this payment fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to Miss C in relation to these 
customer service issues, so I wont ask it to pay her anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman