DRN-3767346
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) declined her claim for fire-
damaged contents.
What happened
Mrs S had buildings and contents home insurance with RSA. She made a claim under the 
policy for fire damage to her garage and its contents, worth around £23,000. RSA settled the 
buildings element of the claim, but it declined to cover the contents without proof of 
ownership.
Around two thirds of the contents claim was for property belonging to Mrs Ss business. The 
remaining third was property for personal use. RSA said that because Mrs Ss business 
owned the property, as a home owner she didnt have an insurable interest. As for the 
personal use items, RSA said Mrs S hadnt proven ownership. 
Mrs S said her policy provided cover for up to £7,500 for clerical business use and she 
thought RSA should at least settle to that amount, along with a further £7,500 for the 
personal use items. Initially, RSA said it would pay £7,500, but it later withdrew the offer and 
declined the contents claim. So, Mrs S brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They thought RSA had fairly declined the claim 
because Mrs S couldnt provide evidence of ownership for the personal use property. Our 
investigator said RSA declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs S disagreed. She explained that finding evidence of ownership was difficult because 
much of the property was bought more than seven years before, and her business was only 
required to keep receipts for seven years. Mrs S remained of the opinion that her request for 
a £15,000 settlement was fair because it was in line with the policy limit for business use and 
covered the personal items in full.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The issue is whether the policy provided cover for the property in the garage. RSA said the 
policy didnt provide cover because most of the items damaged in the fire were owned by 
Mrs Ss business.
Business use cover
Ive looked at the policy and see that it specifically excludes cover for, Anything used for 
trade, professional or business purposes except clerical business equipment. 
Im satisfied this is clear and that cover was not available for the non-clerical property owned 
by Mrs Ss business.
Mrs S said some cover should be available under the exception for clerical business 
equipment.
The policy defines clerical business equipment as, computer, telecommunication and office 
equipment, office furniture and stationery, owned by your family or your family's 
responsibility under contract.
RSA explained that because Mrs Ss business owned the non-clerical property, it didnt fall 
within this definition. I agree. The policy doesnt include any reference to cover for business 
equipment owned by a business but kept in the home. I appreciate this is a fine distinction 
because Mrs S owns the business. But she bought a home insurance policy, not a business 
policy, so it would be unreasonable to expect RSA to cover the business risk.
Settlement offer
Mrs S said RSA offered her a settlement in line with the clerical business equipment cover 
and then withdrew its offer. I can understand that will have been a disappointment, but for 
the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that cover wasnt available. So, RSA was entitled 
to withdraw its offer once it became apparent the business owned the damaged property.
Personal property
Some of the property in the garage was for personal use. Thats not disputed. I see RSA 
made an interim payment of £1,000 towards those items, but it asked for evidence of 
ownership. 
The policy says:
To help us deal with your claim quickly, we may require additional information which may 
include the following;
Original purchase receipts, invoices, instruction booklets or photographs, bank or 
credit card statements, utility bills, pre-purchase surveys, or plans or deeds of your 
property
Purchase dates and location of lost or damaged property
For damaged property, confirmation from a suitably qualified expert that the item 
you are claiming for is beyond repair.
Where we have asked you for specific information relevant to your claim we will pay for 
any reasonable expenses you incur in providing us with the above information.
RSAs request was not because the presence of the items was in doubt, but because some 
of those items may, too, have been owned by Mrs Ss business. The property which was 
clearly for personal use  such as a sleeping bag and bike stand  were relatively low value 
items, so RSA wanted to be sure that the interim payment didnt exceed the value of the 
personal use property. But it expected evidence to show that the equipment Mrs S wanted to 
claim for under the clerical business use cover was owned directly by her.
Understandably, Mrs S says she doesnt have receipts for most of the property because its 
over seven years old and her business is only required to keep receipts for seven years. The evidence request was for personal items, so the business rules arent relevant here. 
However, I see RSA said it would accept a certified statement from Mrs Ss accountant 
confirming that the business didnt buy any of the property which is the subject of the 
personal use claim. I think that was a fair offer. Unless every item was more than seven 
years old, I see no reason why Mrs S cant obtain the certified statement to support her 
claim.
I can only sympathise with the position Mrs S found herself in when a fire damaged so much 
of her property. But the evidence supports RSAs decision that cover wasn't available under 
the policy for those items owned by Mrs Ss business. Therefore, Im satisfied that SA 
declined Mrs Ss claim fairly, and in line with the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman