DRN-4159751
The complaint
Ms K has complained about the service received from Lloyds Bank PLC. Her complaint is 
about a transfer of her ISA funds from a third party to it. Ms K is unhappy that the transfer 
was cancelled and has said she has suffered financial loss because of this.
What happened
Ms K held a stocks and shares ISA with a third party. She decided she wanted to transfer 
the total value of this ISA, that being around £258,591. She decided that all her stock held 
was to be sold and then transferred as cash. Ms K was looking to do this as she was at 
some point going to buy a retirement property with the proceeds. Ms K put in a transfer 
request form with Lloyds on 3 December 2021 to transfer all the value from her ISA with a 
third party to an existing cash ISA with it. 
Ms K received a letter from the third party on 13 December 2021 to say the transfer of 
around £258,591 had been complete. On 23 December 2021 Ms K went into a Lloyds 
branch and a staff member advised her that it had not received the funds. On 6 January 
2022, Lloyds cancelled the transfer and sent a cancellation letter to Ms K.
Since the transfer didnt happen, Ms K, still with plans to use the funds, requested that the 
money from her ISA be transferred to Lloyds current account and then onto a club saver 
account. This took place on 30 March 2022 but by this stage Ms Ks total amount held with 
the third party had fallen to around £252,142. This is because the third party had an 
agreement in place on her stocks and shares ISA account that it could automatically invest 
the money. So, between the cancellation of the first transfer and the successful second 
transfer, Ms Ks funds had reduced due to investments losing value. This was less than the 
total value of her stocks and shares ISA when she originally asked for the amount to be 
transferred. Ms K complained to Lloyds about this and said it was responsible for her 
investment losses here as it was responsible for not completing the transfer in the first place.
Lloyds responded to Ms K and said it instructed the ISA transfer from the third party, but it 
was the third party that had not sent the funds. It said therefore it cancelled the transfer once 
a period had elapsed. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2023. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Ms K said the cancellation of a transfer she requested on 3 December 2021 was caused by 
Lloyds. Lloyds has not accepted responsibility for this and said it didnt receive the funds 
from the third party. So, I first need to consider what happened here and whether Lloyds was 
responsible for the cancellation of the transfer or not.
Ms K said she put in a transfer request to the third party on 3 December 2021. 10 days later 
Ms K received a letter from the third party saying the transfer was complete for £258,591 to 
Lloyds. The third party sent this letter because it says on that date it made payment for the 
total amount to the Lloyds bank account details supplied to it. I have looked at the third 
partys notes on its system and it says on the 22 December 2021 that the money was 
returned from Lloyds. The third party then said it made attempts to contact Lloyds on 23 
December 2021 and again on 5 January 2022. I can see an email it has sent to Lloyds 
where it asks whether it should attempt to transfer the funds again to the same account 
details or not.
Lloyds has said until recently that it did not receive the money from the third party, but that 
on balance, doesnt seem right. It looks to me that the third party tried to transfer the funds, 
but these were sent back by Lloyds. Then, when the third party attempted to resolve matters 
and try another transfer, it was unable to make contact or obtain any further information from 
Lloyds about how to transfer the funds in a successful way. 
Lloyds then cancelled the transfer on 6 January 2022 as the 30-day transfer time frame it 
was working to had passed. I would like to note at this point that this was a transfer of cash 
only (albeit held in a stocks and shares ISA) to a cash ISA. Government guidelines state that 
transfers between cash ISAs should take no longer than 15 working days. As only cash was 
being transferred from the third-party ISA, I consider its reasonable to conclude that the 
transfer should have been completed within 15 working days. And if that had happened, 
Lloyds would have needed to complete the transfer by 24 December 2021 and not the 6 
January 2022 date that it had earmarked on its own system. That said, Lloyds sent a 
cancellation letter to Ms K on this date and a day later emailed the third party asking it to call 
to discuss the transfer, after it had cancelled everything. 
When I consider what I know about this transfer, I dont think Lloyds are right to say it didnt 
receive the funds. It looks on balance, like it did receive the funds from the third party but 
there was an issue with it applying it to Ms Ks account. I say this because the third party has 
kept a record of when it transferred the funds over to Lloyds and this then triggered an 
automated letter being sent out to Ms K on 13 December 2021. 
I asked Lloyds recently about the funds being returned to the third party, and what I had 
seen that showed this to more likely than not be the case. Lloyds replied and said that it is 
likely (although it wasnt certain) that a barrier was placed on the account and with this being 
so, the money was returned automatically to the third party. Lloyds stated that its ISA 
accounts have barriers on them which need raising before funds will be accepted into them, 
and it looks like the barrier wasnt raised on Ms Ks account which was to receive the 
transfer.
I have been unable to understand the reasons for this, but it looks like the issue was 
something that Lloyds needed to deal with if it was to carry out its responsibility and 
successfully transfer Ms Ks funds to one of its cash ISA accounts. After all, Lloyds had 
agreed that Ms K could transfer her funds into the cash ISA, and so it needed to take the 
necessary steps to allow that to happen, including removing any barrier to money coming 
into the account.
Ive also not been able to see if Lloyds made any attempts to contact or reply to the third 
party to attempt to successfully resolve this issue and make the transfer happen within a 
reasonable time frame. And I can see the third party did on the other hand try to make 
contact to do this. If Lloyds had responded to the third party on 23 December 2021, it could 
have resolved the issue that was stopping the money being transferred. But instead, it 
cancelled the transfer and then responded when it was too late. 
So, I think on balance, Lloyds are responsible for the breakdown of Ms Ks transfer request. I 
say this because it hasnt been able to explain why it returned the funds to the third party 
other than to say there was a barrier on the account and hasnt been able to show that it 
made any attempts to rectify or put right the transfer, like the third party has.  Ms K says she has incurred an investment loss, as the transfer cancellation caused the 
overall value of her ISA to fall. This is because once the transfer was cancelled the funds 
were returned to Ms Ks stocks and shares ISA. Ms K held an agreement where these funds 
would be invested and during the period from the cancellation of the transfer to the time, she 
was able to move the funds instead to a Lloyds savings account on 30 March 2022, the total 
value of her ISA had fallen. I am currently minded to conclude that but for the cancellation 
that I have concluded Lloyds are responsible for, Ms K wouldnt have incurred these 
investment losses. So, I am minded to conclude that Lloyds failings have caused Ms Ks 
investment losses and this needs to be put right.
Finally, I think the cancellation that I have concluded Lloyds are responsible for and the lack 
of a clear explanation from Lloyds about why the transfer had failed caused Ms K distress 
and inconvenience. It has not up to now found out what exactly happened to the transfer and 
why the money was sent back to the third party. This I can see has caused Ms K distress 
and inconvenience as she has attempted to make contact and find out what was going on. I 
think this would have been stressful for Ms K and so I currently think Lloyds should pay her 
£250 in recognition of this.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Ms K replied on 25 May 2023 and said she was happy to accept 
the findings of my provisional decision. 
Lloyds responded also on 25 May 2023 and said it would accept the recommendations 
from my provisional decision as well. It asked if rather than obtaining the value Ms K 
would have transferred if the transfer had gone through on 24 December 2021, if it could 
instead pay the difference between the initial payment the third party attempted to 
transfer and what Ms K ended up transferring.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that will change the outcome of this complaint and 
both have agreed with my findings. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart 
from what I have said within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Ms 
Ks complaint and Lloyds now needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Lloyds have asked if it can use the amount the third party tried to transfer across and 
subtract the amount that was eventually transferred across. If it obtains the value that Ms K 
would have transferred had the transfer had gone through on 24 December 2021, it will be 
the amount that the third party tried to transfer across originally. This is because by this date 
it had sold all the holdings in Ms Ks ISA and held that amount as a cash balance before 
transferring it. So, Lloyds can do as it suggests. But it will also need to add 8% simple 
interest and pay the distress and inconvenience payment as I have described below.
I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Obtain the value that Ms K would have transferred had the transfer gone through on 
24 December 2021 (A). Compare this to the amount she eventually transferred into a 
savings account on 30 March 2022 (B).If A is greater than B, pay that difference to Ms K. If B is greater than A, there is no 
loss.
To any loss identified when comparing A to B, add 8% simple interest a year (less tax 
if properly deductible) on the amount Ms K lost calculated above, from the date she 
should have received the money, this being 24 December 2021 to the date of 
settlement.
Lloyds should also pay Ms K £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
delaying the transfer of her ISA funds and failing to explain clearly why the transfer 
had failed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ks complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
compensation as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman