DRN-2785929
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide her with a full cash 
refund, after cancelling her travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 14 November 2019, Mrs A purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which provided 
her with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional cover for Mrs 
As trip, including post- departure cover, with Mrs A going on holiday from 27 August 2020 to 
1 September 2020. Mrs A paid £467.15 for the policy. The policy also included cover for six 
medical conditions Mrs A declared.
Mrs A has explained that her holiday was cancelled by its provider, as a result of the 
coronavirus pandemic. Mrs A has explained that as soon as she found this out, she 
contacted Great Lakes, to let it know the holiday wasnt going ahead, and she would need to 
cancel her travel insurance policy. This meant Mrs A contacted Great Lakes when the 
holiday was cancelled, on 6 July 2020.
Great Lakes said it would allow Mrs A to move her travel insurance cover dates, at no extra 
charge. As long as the new cover dates selected were within 18 months of when she 
originally purchased her travel insurance policy. Alternatively, Mrs A could be given a pro-
rata credit voucher for the unused part of her original travel insurance policy  which it said 
equated to £92.47. Mrs A would then be able to use this to purchase a new travel insurance 
policy with Great Lakes, whether this be a single or annual multi trip policy - so long as she 
did so within 36 months.
Mrs A accepted the credit voucher. But she didnt feel this offer was fair. As Mrs A was 
unhappy, she raised her concerns with Great Lakes. But it didnt change its position. 
Remaining dissatisfied, Mrs A referred her complaint to this service, for an independent 
review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 14 November 2019, 
and the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the date the holiday Mrs A 
was due to embark on was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mrs A with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated based on the 
remaining premium when Mrs As holiday was cancelled, until the end date of the policy on 1 
September 2020.
It was also clarified that this voucher being offered was valid for 36 months, from the point of 
policy cancellation. It could be used for a new single trip, or annual multi-trip insurance 
policy. Mrs A could also transfer this voucher to a friend or a relative as a gift, if she would 
rather do this. And our investigator considered this fair.
Mrs A didnt agree with our investigators opinion. She still felt that Great Lakes offer wasnt 
fair. Because Mrs A remained dissatisfied, her complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to Mrs A.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide any refund after 
the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mrs A wanted to 
cancel her insurance policy. Her holiday would no longer be going ahead as a result of the 
coronavirus pandemic. But I dont think Mrs As reasons for cancelling her policy reasonably 
fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. I say this because I dont 
think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is 
one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The examples of 
exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or changes in the 
policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable. 
Mrs A was covered from the date she purchased her policy, for any cancellation claim she 
may have needed to make. And the premium they paid included this cover. As Great Lakes 
were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable that Mrs A 
pay for Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. Mrs A didnt need to make a claim for the cancellation of her holiday, as her holiday provider 
refunded the money she had paid. Instead she called Great Lakes on 6 July 2020, to cancel 
the policy as it was no longer needed, given her holiday had been cancelled the same day. 
Because there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure from this point, and this was an 
unprecedented situation, I do think Great Lakes offer to now provide a pro-rata refund, from 
the date of the holiday cancellation is fair. It means Great Lakes isnt charging a premium 
when it knows there is nothing left to cover.  
Given this, I think a voucher for the remaining time left on the policy (from 6 July 2020 to 1 
September 2020) is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this case. 
I dont think the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered Mrs A arent unreasonably 
restrictive. It does provide Mrs A with a number of options, including the ability to purchase a 
single or annual multi-trip policy, or gift the voucher to someone else. And it allows Mrs A 
cover to go on the same holiday at a later date than originally planned. 
Im also satisfied the value attached to the vouchers is fair and I dont think Great Lakes has 
treated Mrs A differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and calculated 
the voucher amount in this case. Great Lakes has calculated the voucher amount from the 
date Mrs As holiday was cancelled  6 July 2020, to the date the policy was due to end, 1 
September 2020. This meant there would be 58 days of the policy unused, where Great 
Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £92.47 of the premium paid. As this offer reflects 
the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 58 days after the policy was cancelled, Im 
satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes Insurance 
SE has offered Mrs A is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman