DRN-4175950
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked his personal bank account after it had been 
notified of a fraud claim from a third party. Mr A says that hes been unable to access the 
funds in his account after Lloyds Bank PLC decided to close his account.
What happened
Mr A received £500 from a third party who intended to purchase Mr As business. The third 
party paid the funds into Mr As personal account. When the third party asked for the funds 
to be returned Mr A didnt return the funds. The third party then contacted their own bank 
who advised Lloyds of a potential fraud claim. Lloyds then blocked Mr As account while the 
matter was investigated.
Mr A complained to Lloyds that hed paid funds into his account after the block had been 
added and that he had no access to these funds now. Mr A said this had caused him 
difficulties in paying his regular bills and that hed spent a significant amount of time on the 
telephone trying to resolve the situation with Lloyds. Mr A told Lloyds that the third party 
would be withdrawing their claim, but this didnt happen.
Lloyds said the block on the account would remain until their investigation had been 
completed, or it had received confirmation the claim had been withdrawn. Whilst it accepted 
Mr A had spent some time on the telephone about this issue, Lloyds didnt think it was 
unreasonable in this case. Lloyds said that Mr A shouldnt have been allowed to pay funds 
into his account after it had been blocked. Lloyds said it had told Mr A he could visit the 
branch to withdraw the funds hed paid in so that he could make other arrangements to pay 
his regular bills.
Subsequent to the complaint Mr A withdrew the amount Lloyds incorrectly allowed him to 
deposit, but Lloyds didnt allow him to withdraw the remaining balance in case it received 
any further fraud claims against him.
Mr A brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that the actions taken by Lloyds 
werent proportionate or reasonable and the remaining funds should be returned to Mr A, 
and that Lloyds should pay Mr A £300 for the trouble and upset caused. As both Mr A and 
Lloyds didnt agree with the Investigator the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted theres been a dispute between Mr A and a third party and both Mr A and 
Lloyds are fully aware of the details of this dispute. This is clearly a civil matter so I wont be 
commenting on the specifics of the dispute, but instead I will focus on whether or not the 
actions Lloyds took were reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that Mr As personal account was blocked at the end 
of November 2022, after it received a notification that a payment made to Mr A was 
potentially fraudulent. I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to place a block on the 
account while the matter was being investigated. Unfortunately, the day after the account 
was blocked, Lloyds allowed Mr A to pay into the account by removing the block in branch, 
and then re-applying the block. Lloyds accepts this shouldnt have happened. I think this is at 
the crux of Mr As complaint as it started a chain of events that would likely not have been so 
troublesome to Mr A if Lloyds had followed its own processes.
After Lloyds accepted the deposit, Mr A spoke with Lloyds several times on the telephone 
and explained what had happened between him and the third party. Mr A explained he 
needed to pay some bills from his account. Although Lloyds told Mr A he could go back to 
the branch and withdrawal the funds hed paid, Mr A said he was working, and this was 
difficult. Because of this, Im satisfied the error Lloyds made in allowing Mr A to pay in funds 
after the block caused him some trouble and upset. I dont think this was particularly 
significant, but it could have been avoided if the Lloyds branch had not allowed the deposit 
to take place.
In its telephone calls with Mr A, Lloyds asked for evidence supporting what the disputed 
payment was for, such as legal paperwork, but Mr A didnt provide any documentation in this 
regard. In late December 2022, Mr A asked Lloyds to return the funds to the third party. 
Lloyds said it would do so if it received confirmation from the third party that theyd 
withdrawn the claim that the payment had been fraudulent. Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest the third party withdrew the claim. Lloyds completed its investigation in early 
January 2023 and had decided to give notice to Mr A that it would close the account  
although I note that Mr A had also told Lloyds that he intended to close his account. Im 
satisfied that Lloyds took into account that Mr A had alternative banking arrangements and 
provided Mr A with reasonable notice after it had made its decision.  
Whilst the account was blocked, Lloyds told Mr A several times to make alternative 
arrangements to ensure any bills were paid and that he could go into branch to withdraw 
funds  but Mr A didnt do this until 23 January 2023. Lloyds says it didnt release the 
remaining funds to Mr A in case it received further fraud claims against him. I dont think this 
was proportionate. Even if the claim was proved to be fraudulent, it seems likely the amount 
Lloyds would be required to refund was £500 and not the full remaining balance on the 
account. In this regard Ive decided that Lloyds shouldve offered to pay the full balance to 
Mr A when it closed the account.
Mr A says that Lloyds actions caused him to make a late payment on a charge card and 
miss mortgage and utility bill payments. Unfortunately, Ive not seen anything on the credit 
report Mr A has provided that persuades me this is what happened  and Ive not seen any 
evidence of late payment charges Mr A says he incurred. So, whilst I think Mr A has been 
caused some trouble and upset, I dont think there is any financial loss to Mr A.
Putting things right
Lloyds shouldnt have unblocked Mr As account to allow a deposit to be made and that it 
shouldve allowed Mr A to withdraw the remaining funds in his account more quickly that it 
did. So, Ive decided that Lloyds should pay Mr A for the trouble and upset it has caused him 
in the circumstances of this complaint and think a payment of £300 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I would also have asked Lloyds to arrange payment of 
the outstanding balance on Mr As account  as suggested by the Investigator  but Mr A 
has confirmed that he has now received the full amount.My final decision
For the reasons Ive provided above, Ive decided that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr A the 
sum of £300 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman