DRN-2558867
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his motor insurance broker, Brightside Insurance Services 
Limited, because when he had to change his car, and his existing insurance policy couldnt 
be amended to accommodate that, it charged him for cancelling the policy.
What happened
Mr A had purchased a car on a finance agreement. The car turned out to be not fit for 
purpose and the finance company took it back. Mr A called Brightside to amend his policy 
with the new car details. When he confirmed the car would be parked on the road, as the 
previous car had been, Brightside said the insurer wouldnt offer a quote. Brightside said all it 
could do was cancel the policy, and it let Mr A know thered be a cost for that. When 
Brightside had calculated what Mr B had paid to date and added in the cancellation fee, this 
left Mr A owing it £51.21. Mr A felt this was unfair  hed had no choice but to change his car, 
and Brightside hadnt been able to accommodate the change. 
When Brightside wouldnt agree to withdraw the charge, Mr A complained to us. Our 
investigator felt the charge was fair and that, in the circumstances, Brightside hadnt done 
anything wrong in applying it. Mr A asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr As frustration  he was sold an unfit car and whilst the finance company 
has resolved that aspect, he is now left paying a sum of money as a consequence of the 
resolution of that dispute. But Brightside werent responsible for the sale of the car. And from 
its perspective, which is also another consequence of the dispute, its had to cancel a policy 
Mr A had asked it to arrange, to cover him and that vehicle, for a year. 
Brightside, as a broker, also has no control over what the insurer that provides the cover 
does. It can only respond to situations in line with the terms and conditions that exist within 
the policy itself and within the agreement that exists between it and Mr A. Brightside couldnt 
force the insurer to offer cover, so the policy that had been in place for the old car couldnt 
be amended to provide cover for Mr A and his new car and had to end . And the contract 
Mr A had agreed to with Brightside allowed it to apply a fee in the event of cancellation. 
The fee Brightside applied wasnt excessive and was in-line with the terms agreed to. Im not 
persuaded that Brightside did anything wrong or that there are any grounds on which I can 
fairly and reasonably require it to withdraw the cancellation fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Brightside Insurance 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman