DRN-3214820
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that Advantage Insurance Company Limited has recorded an incident 
he reported on his car insurance policys claims record.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr C contacted Advantage to report an incident where some builders at his 
property had damaged his car by accidentally spilling some cement on it. And he said he 
wanted to enquire what the process was if he wanted to claim. But he says he explained he 
wasnt claiming at that time.
However, when he received his renewal documents, he noticed Advantage had recorded the 
incident on his claims history and treated it as a fault claim. As a result it had increased his 
premium. Mr C didnt think this was fair and said he was unhappy hed have to report this 
incident for the next five years.
Advantage acknowledged Mr C didnt make a claim, but it said he still had a duty under the 
terms of the insurance policy to report the incident. And it said it was required to record the 
incident on his record. However, it said it had recorded it as notification only. It said it was 
initially recorded as a fault claim as the entry needed to remain open in case the third party 
reported it. However it said it was changed to non-fault before renewal and the renewal 
premium was adjusted accordingly.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Mr C was required to report the 
incident and he was satisfied LV had correctly recorded the incident as notification only. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and said hed obtained a copy of his data from the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). He said this clearly recorded that a claim was 
made, regardless of the status and stated a 'claim number' and 'claim date'. He maintained 
this should be recorded as an incident, not a claim. He thinks its wrong that his future 
insurance premiums will be affected by this as the builders had paid to repair his car at no 
cost to him. He thinks its unfair hes losing out due to no fault of his own.
As Mr C didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Like all car insurance polices on the market, the terms of Mr Cs insurance policy required 
him to report any incident no matter how minor and regardless of blame and whether or not 
[Mr C] wanted to make a claim." So Mr C was required to report the incident to Advantage. 
Both Mr C and Advantage have provided a copy of his CUE record. I note what Mr C says 
about CUE calling this claim data, but this service isnt the regulator and cant tell CUE how 
to set out consumers details. But this clearly sets out that the incident was a notification only 
and says no payments were made. So I disagree that Advantage has recorded this as a 
claim.
I note Mr C is unhappy Advantage initially recorded the incident as an open claim. But this 
isnt unreasonable. Ultimately its aware an incident occurred and theres a potential for it to 
incur an outlay. So its common practice for an insurer to treat it as an open claim until such 
time as its satisfied a claim isnt going to materialise. I recognise the incident status was 
only changed once Mr C called and, arguably, Advantage should have updated this sooner 
than it did. But, ultimately, Mr C hasnt lost out because his annual premium was changed to 
reflect the updated status before the policy renewed.
Ultimately the information on Mr Cs record is correct and Advantage hasnt acted unfairly. I 
appreciate Mr C is unhappy that his future premiums may be affected. But I cant comment 
on something that may happen in the future or in respect to the actions of a business not a 
party to this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling in this matter, but I havent seen anything to show that 
Advantage has acted unfairly in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman