DRN-2852153
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money she paid for a car. She 
says the seller was fraudulent and has lost out as a result.
Background
Miss P has explained she had a new job and so was looking for a car for her commute. She 
saw a second-hand car advertised for sale on a social media marketplace. I understand the 
car was first registered in 2003 and the seller was looking for £700 for it. Miss P contacted 
the seller to enquire whether it had a valid MOT. The seller said he had just got the car and 
that it doesnt have a MOT, but that he could arrange one.
Two days later, the seller provided confirmation that the car had passed its MOT, with some 
minor defects and advisories listed. Miss P has said she also checked the DVLA website to 
confirm this was legitimate. On this basis, Miss P arranged to test drive the vehicle the 
following day.
During the test drive Miss P has said she didnt notice any problems with the car, except that 
the fan to clean the windscreen was blowing out cold air. Miss P agreed to purchase the car 
for £700. She paid via the Lloyds mobile banking app to the sellers wife, who also banked 
with Lloyds.
Three days later Miss P drove the car 16 miles to work. During the journey the car lost power 
and overheated. The car was towed to a garage and assessed. The garage advised the car 
had a blown head gasket and broken radiator and that it wasnt economical to fix. 
Miss P contacted the seller regarding the issues. He replied saying he was sorry to hear 
about the issues and that the car might need a service. Miss P has said that since then, the 
seller has stopped answering her calls.
Miss P complains that Lloyds didnt protect her from falling victim to a scam, that there was 
insufficient security on their app and that the receiving account holder used a fake name. 
Miss P has asked Lloyds to either return the funds she sent, or provide her the beneficiary 
account holders details, so that she can pursue the matter as a civil dispute.
Lloyds looked into Miss Ps concerns. It considered that the issue was a civil dispute 
between Miss P and the seller. Lloyds also advised that due to data protection, it wouldnt 
provide the sellers details to Miss P. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Miss P referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered Miss Ps complaint. She didnt think this was a scam  and that it 
was more likely a civil dispute between Miss P and the seller shed paid. As a result, she 
didnt think Lloyds were liable for returning Miss Ps funds.
Miss P didnt agree with the investigators findings. She said:
Shed only driven the car twice since purchasing it so didnt get any use from it
The seller has a fraudulent bank account under a false name and that she no longer 
banks with Lloyds as a result of this incident
As Miss P didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint has been referred to me 
to reach a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Having done so, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Lloyds to refund the money
Miss P sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Miss P was hoping for. I 
appreciate Miss P took prudent steps to satisfy herself that the car she was purchasing was 
of an acceptable standard, insisting an MOT was completed and test-driving the car before 
purchase. I can therefore understand why shes frustrated that shes not been able to 
recover her money when the car has not turned out to be what she expected. But having 
thought about Lloyds actions, I am unable to say it has responsibility for refunding the 
money Miss P sent. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
When Lloyds made the payments, it was complying with Miss Ps instructions. At the time,
Miss P wanted to pay the beneficiary account and there was no mistake made as the money 
was sent to the correct account details. As I dont think Lloyds acted incorrectly by making 
the payments, Ive gone on to consider whether it should have refunded Miss P for any other 
reason.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Lloyds has
signed up to and was in force at the time Miss P made the payment.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code
applies in the circumstances of the payment Miss P made and, in particular, whether Lloyds
ought to reimburse her under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it
doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods,
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
From what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that the situation Miss P finds herself in is a 
scam. I think the payment Miss P made forms part of a civil dispute and is therefore not covered by the CRM Code. This means I dont think Lloyds is responsible for reimbursing 
Miss P because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
I can appreciate, considering the short space of time between the purchase and breakdown 
of the car, why Miss P feels deceived by the seller. But Im also mindful that Miss P did 
receive a car for the money she paid. I dont think the available evidence demonstrates that 
the seller set out to deceive Miss P  the car she intended to purchase did exist and the 
seller had recently arranged an MOT before the sale. The problems Miss P is now 
experiencing are due to the condition of the vehicle  it was not of a satisfactory quality when 
sold and broke down very quickly afterwards. But unfortunately for Miss P. this is an issue 
thats specifically stated as not being covered by the CRM Code. 
Ive also considered Miss Ps concerns that the account to which she sent money was 
fraudulent and in a fake name. Ive asked Miss P for further clarification on why she thinks 
this but havent received any additional information. From the evidence Ive seen, Miss P 
sent funds to an account in the same surname as the seller shed been corresponding with 
and received a positive confirmation of payee from Lloyds  meaning the account name 
matched the account details she provided. I therefore havent seen anything to suggest the 
beneficiary account was being run fraudulently.
I understand Miss P would like information on the beneficiary account holder in order to 
pursue them directly for reimbursement - the obligations Lloyds has to its customers prevent 
it from disclosing the beneficiarys information in the way Miss P would like it to. I cannot 
fairly require it to breach those obligations by disclosing that information to Miss P, much as I 
appreciate how greatly this would help Miss P.
Overall, I dont think Lloyds treated Miss P unfairly when it concluded this was a civil matter
that Miss P would need to pursue directly with the seller. For the reasons I have explained, 
Im satisfied Miss P isnt due a refund under the CRM Code.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman