DRN-3751300
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Trading 212 UK Limited trading as Trading 212 (Trading 212) recovered 
approximately £3,842.97 from his Contract for Differences (CFD) account following 
identification of a manifest error and continues to request a further £2,517.11.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to re-assure Mr Y that Ive had sight of all communications in this complaint, 
including all post view communications with the Investigator. I may not comment on each 
point individually, but I have considered all the information submitted. Having done so, Im 
not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Manifest error
Trading 212s CFD client agreement with Mr Y defines a manifest error as: an obvious error 
in the quotes of the Financial Instruments which substantially deviates from the prevailing 
market price and which has occurred as a result of a system or technical error.
The definition is clear in the terms and conditions of the client agreement which Mr Y agreed 
to. And Trading 212 identified 122 of Mr Ys positions which it says were affected by this 
manifest error. It believes clause 6.8 of the terms of the client agreement allows it to cancel 
any order where a manifest error is found. This clause states:
If Manifest error in a specific quote is found, We shall be entitled at our 
discretion to cancel the Order and the relevant consequences  in terms of either 
a profit or a loss for You  immediately upon detection of such Manifest error. 
We shall not be liable for any damages or consequential loss incurred by You as 
a result of such cancellation, except for damages resulting directly from our 
gross negligence or wilful misconduct.
I appreciate Mr Y feels a manifest error hasnt occurred in this instance, but the evidence 
provided shows there was incorrect pricing which allowed for customers to potentially use 
third party sources and trade with a 60 second lead on the correct pricing. This is quite a 
substantial lead which Im satisfied fits the definition of a manifest error and is reasonably 
obvious upon observation.
Trading 212 confirmed it has voided almost 9000 positions across its platform due to this 
manifest error and has done so regardless of whether they were in profit or loss. It has 
provided specific evidence of individual positions Mr Y took out which it voided due to the 
manifest error, which in total amounted to a £6,360.08 profit.
Mr Y has explained that none of his trades were made to take advantage of a manifest error 
 and I appreciate his comments about this point. However, the terms surrounding manifest 
error do not state that the trades must purposefully exploit such errors  it only concerns 
whether a manifest error has occurred.
Its not my role to decide whether Mr Y has made use of latency trading like Trading 212 has 
also suggested. Instead my role is to decide if the evidence available shows a manifest error 
has occurred, and if it's likely Mr Y has benefitted from an unfair advantage as a result. From 
the evidence already discussed Im satisfied that this is the case and that Trading 212 has 
acted reasonably and in line with what its terms allow it to do. Ultimately the manifest error 
reduced risk and could be benefitted from  intentionally or otherwise.
Trading 212 has to date reclaimed £3,842.97 from Mr Ys account. The terms allow Trading 
212 the discretion to reclaim any funds which are the subject of a manifest error and so I 
dont think its been unreasonable in this instance. Im also satisfied it was also not required 
to give Mr Y any advanced notice of this action.
Where there is an allegation of wrongdoing against a client, Trading 212 are also entitled to 
cease to offer its services. Clause 20.2 of the client agreement allow Trading 212 to 
unilaterally cancel and deem void any Order made in violation of clause 20.1, to close your 
Account and to terminate the Agreement.
Trading 212 felt that Mr Y was benefiting from latency trading and made a business decision 
to terminate his positions and close his account. Im satisfied that considering the contended 
trades made by Mr Y during the period, and the advantage of reduced risk from said trades, 
Trading 212 have applied its terms fairly. It plans to close his account once all funds have 
been recovered and has notified Mr Y of such. It is entitled to make this decision and its not 
within our remit to tell a business who it should conduct business with.
Mr Y believes Trading 212 has been unreasonable in the way it applied its discretion. He 
says it has caused him losses and prevented him from meeting his financial commitments. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr Y has had difficulty meeting those commitments, but its important 
to acknowledge that due to the manifest error his account didnt accurately reflect his true 
holdings. Trading 212 were within its rights to prevent him from withdrawing the profits from 
the account as they wouldnt have existed were it not for the manifest error.
Mr Y also feels that Trading 212 have been negligent in the time it took to spot the manifest 
error and notify him, but Im satisfied that as soon as Trading 212 became aware of the 
manifest error it was quick to take action as per the terms of its agreement. I agree it 
wouldve been preferable for both sides if Trading 212 had spotted the error sooner. But 
whilst it does review its third-party external references from day to day considering the 
amount of data it receives daily its understandable these errors wont always be picked up 
instantly. Trading 212 took some time to spot the error, but when it did, Im satisfied it acted 
within a reasonable period as per its terms of agreement and notified Mr Y shortly after.
Mr Y is also unhappy that Trading 212 is continuing to request the remaining profits made 
from these trades (£2,517.11). Im satisfied that Trading 212 is entitled to apply its discretion 
outlined in the terms of the agreement to reclaim funds because of the manifest error. I 
would however remind Trading 212 of its obligations to treat customers fairly and ensure any 
repayment considers Mr Ys individual circumstances and financial situation.My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman