DRN-3847748
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr P holds with Bradford & Bingley Limited (B&B). Its 
one of a number of separate complaints of his that were dealing with. Here, Mr P is unhappy 
that B&B cant (or wont) provide:
evidence that redress awarded by a fellow ombudsman in a final decision on a previous 
complaint has been calculated correctly; and
detailed information and calculations on how a remediation exercise was carried out in 
October 2018.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr P and B&B. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent 
to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our decisions are published, and 
its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr P being identified. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
The investigator gave her view of the complaint in September 2022; she didnt recommend it 
be upheld. We didnt hear from Mr P immediately, but when we did, he asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. The investigator gave him a further two weeks 
to make any final comments for the ombudsman to consider. That was on 
24 November 2022.  
Im satisfied Mr P has had ample opportunity to make a further submission and overall 
fairness requires me to bring this case to a conclusion rather than leave it hanging 
indefinitely. There are two parties involved in this dispute and B&B had indicated that it is 
awaiting a conclusion to the case before deciding its next course of action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Im satisfied B&B provided enough detail about the redress it provided in response to the 
final decision on the earlier complaint. Its regrettable that B&B cant produce the calculations 
it used for the remediation exercise. However, Im not persuaded Mr P has suffered 
detriment, financial or otherwise, as a result.
I appreciate Mr P is frustrated at not being able to satisfy himself about these matters. But 
not being sure if things are correct isnt the same as having good reason to believe they are 
incorrect; and Mr P hasnt provided any substantive evidence that would cause me to think 
B&Bs calculated the complaint redress wrongly or implemented the remediation 
inaccurately.
But that doesnt mean Mr P has to take B&Bs word that everything is correct. I would 
reiterate the points the investigator has made  if Mr P believes the accounting on his 
mortgage is incorrect, whether that be from the historic complaint redress, the remediation or 
any other factor, it is always open to him to have the account independently audited at his 
own expense. 
If this reveals errors for which B&B is responsible, then that could form the basis of a new 
complaint which, if upheld, might result in B&B reimbursing the cost of the audit. However, 
B&B has told us the mortgage term has expired, that the balance is now overdue for 
repayment and no payments have been received in more than a year. If true, that means 
that if repayment proposals cant be agreed B&B will be entitled to pursue recovery action 
through the courts, as a last resort. 
I would not want Mr P to underestimate the seriousness of this. Where a mortgage term has 
expired, the options available to the borrower to ask the court to suspend possession are 
very limited. I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put 
recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant 
force them to. 
If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality 
between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using 
our service to bring complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying 
to take legitimate action through the courts to recover money owed to them. I do not wish to 
alarm Mr P, but I would not want him to be under any misunderstanding that we would tell 
B & B that it must suspend any recovery action in the event of a new complaint being raised.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman