DRN-4330201
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) havent fully refunded them after 
they fell victim to an investment scam 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. And so Ive not included 
exhaustive detail of what happened here. In places Ive condensed and/or summarised what 
happened, focusing on the key developments and details. 
Mr and Mrs G were contacted by BoS in 2020 about the possibility of investing the proceeds 
of a property sale. BoS said it would put Mr and Mrs G in touch with its investment partner 
and an appointment was arranged.
Mr and Mrs G spoke with the investment partner but didnt proceed with any of the options 
they were given. 
Around a week later, Mr and Mrs G were contacted by someone purporting to be from a 
company Ill call F. They didnt know at the time, but they were speaking with scammers.
Mr and Mrs G have explained how F knew personal details including name, address, email, 
and the type of investments they were interested in (fixed rate bonds). F described the 
services offered, saying they acted as an introducer of parties looking to buy and sell bonds 
privately. This was the kind of investment Mr and Mrs G were keen on. F directed Mr and 
Mrs G to its website.
F said that because they werent directly involved in the sale of bonds, only introducing 
parties interested in buying and selling, they didnt need to be FCA regulated. 
Mr and Mrs G were told F had a client interested in selling a stake in what Ill call Bond A. F 
said the client was looking to sell as they were experiencing cashflow problems because of 
the pandemic. Bond A was issued by a high-street bank and offered a 5.375% rate of return.
F told Mr and Mrs G payment would need to go to a different company Ill call N. F said N 
would handle the payments and the exchange of the bond. There were email exchanges 
between Mr G and F that followed the call, along with a client on-boarding process requiring 
the provision of ID documents. 
Mr G went on to check several things:
he checked F and Ns details on Companies House and found both were active with 
up-to-date accounts;
F was described on Companies House as being engaged in Other business support 
service activities not elsewhere classified;
N was described on Companies House as being engaged in Financial intermediation 
not elsewhere classified;
he checked Bond A was legitimately traded and found it listed on the London Stock 
Exchange (LSE) website, with the details matching what had been presented to him 
by F;
he asked for confirmation the bond was FSCS protected and was provided with a 
factsheet which appeared to him to confirm it was.
Mr and Mrs G decided to go ahead with the investment and were sent an invoice which 
included the payee details. They were also sent a breakdown of allocation of the investment 
which needed to be signed, dated, and returned to F. They went on to send a total of 
£80,000 to N over five payments, across five days:
£9,600.00 08.12.20
£20,000.00 09.12.20
£25,000.00 10.12.20
£25,000.00 11.12.20
£400.00 15.12.20
Mr and Mrs G were sent receipts for the payments and a bond certificate. Once received, Mr 
G asked F to confirm if it would be the high street bank that would pay back capital and 
interest when the bond was sold. F confirmed that was the case.
A month later F contacted Mr and Mrs G again. It said it had another client looking to sell a 
bond (Bond B).
Bond B was also issued by a high-street bank and had a 9.625% rate attached to it. F said it 
also had a party interested in buying up part of Bond A and explained the sale could be used 
to part fund the purchase of Bond B. The same style of FSCS document from the purchase 
of Bond A was provided, as was a breakdown of allocation of the investment. Mr G checked 
Bond B was registered on the LSE in the same way Bond A was. 
Mr and Mrs G decided to invest again and understood that £50,000 would be raised from the 
partial sale of Bond A. They went on to send a further £100,000 to N over five payments, 
across five days. Receipts and a bond certificate were received again.
£14,700.00 12.01.21
£24,300.00 13.01.21
£22,000.00 14.01.21
£19,000.00 15.01.21
£20,000.00 20.01.21
Mr G tried to speak to the issuer of Bond B about the registration of their bond. But he 
couldnt find anyone that seemed to know the correct department to speak to.
On 25 January 2021 Mr and Mrs G received a payment of £447.90 from N. They understood 
this to be the interest payable from Bond A, up to the point theyd sold part of it.
F contacted Mr and Mrs G again on 9 February 2021 with a further offer, Bond C. Like the 
other two, this was issued by a high street bank and had a stated rate of 13.625%. Mr G 
carried out the same checks as before and received the FSCS confirmation from F. 
Mr and Mrs G decided to invest again and withdrew funds held in an investment elsewhere. 
They were told to make a payment to a different company this time and were given new 
account details. Mr G checked the details of the new company on Companies House and 
could see it was registered and listed as active. But when they tried to make a payment of 
£20,000 it was stopped, and their account was blocked.Mr and Mrs G called BoS to speak to the fraud department about the attempted payment. 
After a lengthy wait they got through to someone to discuss what was happening. BoS 
explained the payment had been stopped due to fraud concerns. The member of staff asked 
some questions and Mr G confirmed he was investing in a bond by buying it from the 
company which currently held it. When asked how hed found out about this bond and his 
earlier investments he said hed been put on to it by a financial advisor that hed been 
dealing with for about six months. He said he was very happy with it, that hed done his 
homework, and was satisfied it wasnt a scam.
The member of bank staff said there were some details about the transaction he was 
concerned with. He explained the payment seemed to be going to a construction company 
and that Companies House showed that company as being dormant. As he wasnt 
comfortable putting the payment through, he referred Mr and Mrs G to branch, requiring 
them to attend with photo ID. The account would remain blocked until they did so. The 
member of staff added notes to the banks systems, including that it appeared as though Mr 
and Mrs G were caught up in an investment scam.
Mr and Mrs G attended the branch with their ID. But rather than trying to put through the 
£20,000 to the new payee details, they looked to send the full value of their intended 
investment. And by this time F had said Mr and Mrs G could pay N directly for the bond 
purchase.
Mr and Mrs G found they could make payment via CHAPS. That meant they could send two 
payments (of £130,000 and £180,000) rather than many smaller faster payments. 
When making these payments in branch Mr and Mrs G were asked to complete a high-value 
checklist (a copy of which isnt available). They were also asked to watch a video on scams. 
The CHAPS payments were then processed on 9 and 12 March 2021. There was no 
discussion of or reference to the earlier call with the bank, or discussion around why the 
payee had changes.
Mr and Mrs G realised theyd fallen victim to a scam in April 2021 when they didnt receive 
expected interest payments. They tried to contact F but received no response and lines of 
communication appeared to have been closed down. They reported what had happened to 
BoS and it began to investigate.
BoS attempted to recover the money Mr and Mrs G had sent, but none could be returned as 
it had all been withdrawn or moved on to different accounts.
BoS is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. And as such it considered whether it ought to refund Mr and Mrs G under the 
provisions of the Code. In doing so, it found that it hadnt fulfilled its obligations under the 
Code in that it didnt provide suitable warnings and didnt intervene enough to protect Mr and 
Mrs G when there were signs they were at risk of financial harm through fraud. On that basis 
it agreed to refund half of the money lost.
But BoS said that Mr and Mrs G ought to bear responsibility for the other half of the money. 
It said theyd not carried out sufficient checks and hadnt acted on suspicious features of the 
scam, meaning they lacked a reasonable basis for believing they were engaged with 
legitimate parties for legitimate purposes.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with BoS answer and so brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators upheld the complaint and recommended a full refund. She felt Mr 
and Mrs G held a reasonable basis of belief, and so said the exception to reimbursement 
didnt apply. 
She said BoS should:
refund all the money lost to the scam;
pay simple interest on the loss at 8% per year from the date of loss to the date of repayment;
pay £250 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr 
and Mrs G, which took account of: BoS failure to prevent the scam, its decision to 
decline the claim when it wasnt fair to do so, and the extensive amount of time 
Mr and Mrs G spent on the phone and in branch.
As BoS didnt agree the case has been passed to me for a final decision. Its objections can 
be summarised as:
Mr and Mrs G ought to have checked the FCA register for the companies they 
believed they were dealing with;
Mr and Mrs G knew that neither F nor N were FCA registered;
Fs website related to what was obviously a different company, based in 
Australia, and so Mr and Mrs G ought to have been concerned;
The stated purpose of each company on Companies House didnt fit with what Mr 
and Mrs G ought to have expected;
there were no agreements or contracts signed;
the rates of return were too good to be true;
the second and third bonds were offered in quick succession, which ought to 
have raised suspicion;
invoices and payment receipts came from F, despite it saying it wasnt involved in 
the payment journey;
the supposed interest payment from Bond A was paid from Ns account, despite 
Mr and Mrs G having been told the issuer would pay the interest;
the quality of the bond certificates provided to Mr and Mrs G  for Bond B in 
particular  were of poor quality and featured inconsistent details which ought to 
have raised suspicions; 
the intended payee for the unsuccessful Bond C payment was clearly a 
construction company and this was highlighted to Mr and Mrs G when the bank 
spoke to them;
BoS referred to a phone call where the scam was discussed, and its said Mr G told it hed 
discussed the payments with his financial adviser who said he couldnt deal with F. BoS says 
this ought to have caused Mr and Mrs G significant concern.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it.
BoS has subscribed to the CRM Code and so ought to refund victims of scams, like Mr and 
Mrs G in all but limited circumstances. To fairly decline a claim under the Code BoS must be 
able to show that Mr and Mrs G:
ignored an effective warning given by BoS at the time a payment was being made; 
and/or
lacked a reasonable basis for believing they were engaging with legitimate parties for 
legitimate purposes.There are other potential exceptions to reimbursement stated in the Code, but they dont 
apply in this case.
Did Mr and Mrs G ignore an effective warning?
I dont intend to go into great detail about this exception. This is because BoS has already 
agreed it didnt do enough and so hasnt met the standards for firms under the Code. Its why 
it has already refunded 50% of the total loss.
All Ill say is that Im in agreement that BoS failed to deliver effective warnings over the 
course of the scam. 
And its worth noting that BoS ought to have intervened earlier than it did. Ive seen BoS 
own notes where it acknowledges it ought to have been questioning the activity on Mr and 
Mrs G from the second payment made, on 9 December 2020. Id agree with that position, 
given the unusual spike in outgoing payments and considering they go in quick succession 
to a new payee. Its more likely than not that had a suitable level of intervention happened at 
that time, with the right questions being asked about the nature of the proposed investment, 
and before Mr and Mrs G had gotten quite so deep into the scam, that it could have been 
avoided from that point. 
Did Mr and Mrs G have a reasonable basis for believing they were engaged with legitimate 
parties for legitimate purposes?
In considering this question its important to remember that most people dont go about their 
lives expecting to be scammed. Thats not to say customers ought not take any responsibility 
for their actions. But its important to remember we are considering whether Mr and Mrs Gs 
actions at the time they were making payments were reasonable. Rather than looking back 
on the circumstances with the benefit of hindsight, with all the details regarding the scam 
gathered together in the cold light of day.
Mr and Mrs G were contacted by F about fixed income bonds at a time when they had been 
actively discussing them and looking to invest. Discussions had been had with both BoS and 
its investment partner. Its unclear how exactly F obtained Mr and Mrs Gs details. BoS has 
suggested they might have filled in a form online. Mr and Mrs G have said that isnt the case. 
I cant know for sure, but ultimately, I dont find it makes a difference. What seems clear, and 
accepted by all parties, is that Mr and Mrs G had been looking into fixed income bonds at the 
time. And so the call from F didnt seem out of place or to have come out of the blue. 
Instead, it seemed very much in keeping with what they had been looking for. I can see why 
there would have been a degree of trust in F from the outset, especially as F knew personal 
details about Mr and Mrs G.
Mr G spoke to a representative from F and discussed the services they offered. I find the 
explanation he was presented around what F offered, and why it wasnt FCA regulated, was 
reasonable. That doesnt mean it was true of course, but I can appreciate how it would have 
persuaded Mr G. And I dont find the involvement of N, as the receiver of funds, changes 
things here.
BoS has said Mr and Mrs G ought to have checked the FCA website to verify Fs details. But 
they had no reason to do so, given theyd already been told F wasnt regulated and why. I 
dont find this argument from BoS to be persuasive. 
Thats strengthened by the fact that checking the FCA register would have made no material 
difference. Mr and Mrs G would have found no reference to F or N on the register. So there 
was nothing to alert them that something might be wrong. There is now an FCA warning 
about F, but this was posted after Mr and Mrs G had made all their payments. BoS gave no 
warning or education, at any stage, about why it was important that any firm dealing with 
investments needed to be FCA registered. Mr G did look at Fs website and found it professional, convincing, and persuasive. BoS has 
referred to this in its defence of the complaint. But, somewhat disappointingly, its been 
looking at the wrong website. It appears to have found a similarly named website using a 
search engine, and its provided this service with the web address it viewed. That address is 
different to the one Mr G looked at. So the arguments made by BoS in relation to the 
website, including it being connected to an Australian company, are irrelevant and fall away.
The correct web address had been given by Mr and Mrs G in their evidence. Its now been 
taken down and so can only be partially viewed through web archive services. Having had a 
look at what is available, it does appear a convincing looking website was in place. And that 
website described the exact service F said it was providing.
Mr G didnt stop there in carrying out checks. He looked for both F and N on Companies 
House. He could see they were both legitimately registered and active companies. 
BoS has said the stated business purpose ought to have given concern. But Im not 
persuaded it should have. Fs stated purpose was somewhat non-descript, but certainly 
nothing to cause particular alarm. Ns referred to being a financial intermediary, which 
seemed to directly relate to what Mr and Mrs G were getting involved with.
Mr G also went on to check the credentials of the director of F. He saw that he was a 
banking consultant and had previously been employed at a big high-street bank. I can 
understand why he took that as a positive sign. 
When presented with the Bond A offer Mr G checked the details online. He saw it was 
genuinely listed on the LSE. He could see he was being offered a genuine investment 
product, with a verified interest rate attached. I find this lends apparent legitimacy to the 
scam. And it also means any concerns over an unrealistic or too-good-to-be-true rate of 
return must fall away, as those returns appeared to be genuinely available. That logic carries 
through to Bonds B & C, even where the proposed returns were even higher than Bond A.
BoS has said there were no contracts or agreements signed. But thats not true. Mr and 
Mrs G have provided the documents titled Investment Allocation Document. The document 
for Bond A is signed and dated before any payments are sent. Im satisfied this lent further 
legitimacy to the situation.
With all of this in mind, and considering the reasonable quality of the correspondence and 
communication Mr and Mrs G were engaged in with F, Im satisfied the initial payments were 
made with a reasonable basis of belief.
Ive considered all that happens after those first payments for Bond A. And in doing so Ive 
also thought about the other arguments made by BoS which Ive not yet covered, where it 
suggests that Mr and Mrs G didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. Many of BoS 
objections relate to developments that took place as the scam went on, after the payments 
for Bond A. I dont intend to cover all the objections and arguments made by BoS, though I 
have considered them.
Mr G was in a firm position in terms of his basis of belief when making the payments for 
Bond A. Its then fair to say that it would take something quite significant to shake that basis 
of belief over the course of the scam. 
I can accept that all the points raised by BoS, when looked at holistically and with the benefit 
of hindsight, do make the circumstances of what Mr and Mrs G were involved in suspicious 
to the point where a reasonable person ought to suspect something was wrong. But thats 
not reflective of how events actually unfolded. 
Instead, there was a gradually progressing timeline, where new information was introduced 
piecemeal. When considered in this way its understandable, and overall reasonable, that 
Mr and Mrs G didnt connect all the dots. Its also true that there were factors that would 
have further persuaded Mr and Mrs G all was well, strengthening their basis of basis rather than weakening it. I refer in particular to what appeared to be the payment of interest earned 
on Bond A. 
To be clear on this interest payment, I can understand why Mr and Mrs G werent concerned 
by the fact this payment was made by N, rather than the issuer of the bond as theyd been 
informed would happen. Their greatest concern was in receiving the money. They also 
believed part of the bond had been sold, which might reasonably have been seen as 
explanation for a different payer to that otherwise expected. Even if Mr G had questioned 
this point after receiving the money, it seems unlikely the scammers would have failed to 
provide a reasonable explanation or that it is this point that would have uncovered the whole 
scam.
I also note that this interest payment came before the issuing of the certificate for Bond B 
and Bond C. I mention this as BoS has said the quality of the Bond B certificate in particular 
is very poor. I can see why its highlighted this as a point of concern; there are some 
questionable features. But I still have in mind that the scam had been very persuasive up to 
this point. Mr and Mrs G reasonably believed theyd carried out their due diligence. They 
were able to discuss options with F whenever they needed to. And theyd received a 
payment of interest on their initial investment. So Im not persuaded the certificate was 
enough to undo their reasonable held belief that this was all legitimate
Ive listened to the call BoS has referred to, where the circumstances of the scam are 
discussed and Mr G mentions discussing F with his financial adviser. BoS has said that the 
advisers refusal to deal with F ought to have caused significant concern with Mr and Mrs G. 
But I dont think BoS has properly considered what is said. Mr G does say that the financial 
adviser wouldnt deal with F. But he also explains that was because the adviser didnt deal in 
fixed income bonds. It wasnt because he found them to be too risky or suspicious.
BoS did intervene in some payments, to ask questions and give warnings about proceeding. 
Im not going to discuss here the effectiveness of those warnings in respect of standards for 
firms under the Code. But it is important to consider what Mr and Mrs G were told, and 
whether that ought to have impacted their basis of belief.
The call in February 2021 rightly highlighted some concerning details about what Mr and 
Mrs G were trying to do, notably that they were trying to make a payment to a dormant 
construction company. But the trouble here was that there was little context given as to why 
BoS was concerned. I know from listening to the call recording that Mr G very much wanted 
the payment to go ahead. But there were opportunities for the member of staff to further 
explain what he was concerned about and why. That didnt happen and so there wasnt a 
significant impact on Mr Gs basis of belief. And, somewhat confusingly, the company 
showed as active on Companies House when looking at the main details. Its only under the 
filings tab there was reference to the company being dormant.   
Mr and Mrs G attended a branch after the call. But the notes from the call werent looked at 
or referred to. And so BoS didnt build on trying to get Mr and Mrs G to revaluate what they 
were intending to do. Importantly, they were no longer trying to pay a construction company, 
with the payee instead reverting to N. This means the information they were given about 
paying a construction company was no longer relevant, and the bank raised no concern with 
the change in payee or anything else about what Mr and Mrs G were doing. 
There is also the scam video Mr and Mrs G were shown. Theres a dispute about what the 
content of the video was. Mr and Mrs G have said from the outset that the video didnt bear 
any relevance to what they were doing. From what theyve described it sounds more like a 
scam video on doorstep selling. BoS have said it related directly to the type of investment 
scam Mr and Mrs G fell victim to and have provided a transcript. Theres no record to 
confirm the nature of the video shown in branch. Theres very little to show what was 
discussed or what warnings were given at all.Ive considered the scam script supplied by the bank and thought about, if this was what Mr 
and Mrs G saw, whether should it have made a difference. Its undeniable that there are 
features highlighted in the video that match Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances: fixed interest 
bonds, paying a different company to the one being invested with, the involvement of a 
construction company. The video goes on to say how a customer can protect themselves: by 
checking on the FCA register and on Companies House. But Mr and Mrs G already knew F 
and N werent regulated, and theyd already checked on Companies House. So, if this was 
the video they saw, theyd already been through the steps suggested to avoid a scam, 
meaning any impact on their basis of belief would be diminished. And importantly, there 
appears to have been no further tailored discussion or intervention from bank staff (where 
there ought to have been) which might have otherwise revealed the scam.
Overall, Im not persuaded BoS has been able to show that the reasonable basis of belief 
exception to reimbursement applies.
Putting things right
Im not persuaded BoS has been able to demonstrate that any of the exceptions to 
reimbursement under the Code apply. As such Mr and Mrs Gs claim has been unfairly 
declined.
Im also satisfied BoS ought to have intervened with suitable questions and warnings when 
the second payment was made.
This means BoS should now:
refund the remaining loss suffered by Mr and Mrs G;
pay simple interest on the loss at 8% per year, calculated from the date of loss until 
the date of repayment;
oBoS can choose to calculate the interest for the first payment from the date 
the claim was declined under the Code, given intervention wasnt 
necessary at that stage;
ointerest on the 50% already refunded ought to have been paid from the 
date of loss to date of settlement, so BoS should ensure that has happened 
as part of this settlement.
pay Mr and Mrs G £250 for the distress and inconvenience suffered. Mr and Mrs G 
have already accepted this amount, and BoS raised no objection to it, so I see no 
need to depart from our Investigators findings here.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman