DRN-2826362
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to make him aware of its 
offset mortgage product when he made a mortgage application.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate that Mr A does not recall being offered the offset mortgage product. But 
Barclays notes suggest that an offset mortgage was discussed with Mr A, but that 
this was not something he was interested in as his priority was consistency and 
certainty with his monthly payments. Barclays have provided notes from the sale, 
which states All savings are for emergency funds. You understand how offset works, 
however this is not something you are interested in. Its not possible to know for 
certain what was discussed with Mr A. But based on the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that the offset mortgage was most likely discussed with Mr A, which he 
declined.
Even if Barclays didnt discuss the offset mortgage, I dont think its recommendation 
was unsuitable in any event  notwithstanding the £30,000 in savings Mr A had  
because the notes from the sale suggests that he did not want uncertainty with his 
payments and did not plan on making any regular overpayments. So an offset 
mortgage would not have been a suitable option for him in these circumstances, as it 
is a tracker mortgage product, which can see payments increase or decrease 
throughout the term of the mortgage. 
Mr A is also unhappy that Barclays failed to respond to his secure messages about 
his mortgage. Its not clear why Barclays failed to respond to his messages, and I can 
appreciate this would have been frustrating. However, Barclays have already offered 
£50 for the distress and inconvenience caused, which I consider to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances. 
Mr A is also unhappy with Barclays handling of his complaint. However, as explained 
by the investigator, complaint handling is not a regulated activity this service is able 
to consider. So I cannot comment any further on this aspect of Mr As complaint 
within this final decision.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr A. But in the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that Barclays recommendation was unsuitable, or that it failed to offer an offset 
option. So, I will not be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman