DRN-3515916
The complaint
Mr B complains Society of Lloyds unfairly turned down his claim made against his Personal 
Accident and Sickness policy. 
Mr Bs complaint has been brought on his behalf by a representative. But for ease I will refer 
to all representations as having been made by Mr B himself. 
What happened
Mr B holds a Personal Accident and Sickness policy underwritten by Society of Lloyds. The 
policy is designed to pay a benefit in the event that Mr B suffers an illness causing loss of 
sight in both eyes, permanent total disability by paralysis, or temporary total disability. And in 
the case of a successful claim for temporary total disability, the policy states it will pay 75% 
of the policyholders average weekly wage before deductions, for up to 52 weeks. 
Mr B said he was unwell from the beginning of March 2020. And he was signed off work by 
his GP. Society of Lloyds said it thought Mr Bs illness from the beginning of March until 
June 2020, was related to a mental health condition. And it said this was excluded under the 
policy. 
The policy exclusion Society of Lloyds relied on is as follows. 
This insurance does not cover death, loss, disability or expense directly or indirectly 
caused or
contributed to, by, resulting from, or in connection with the following:
4) Suicide, attempted suicide, intentional self-injury or an insured person having any 
psychiatric,
mental or nervous disorder including stress or depression, post-traumatic stress 
disorder or
form of dementia.
Society of Lloyds said some of the medical evidence for the first period of illness referenced 
Mr Bs high blood pressure. However it had not seen enough evidence that this caused Mr B 
to meet the policy terms of the illness cover. It said Mr B could supply more evidence for 
review, but it thought the claim wouldnt be covered as high blood pressure was a pre-
existing condition Mr B had before he took out his policy. 
The policy terms in relation to claims for illness are as follows. 
We will pay up to the sum insured shown in the schedule if an insured person suffers an 
illness, the symptoms of which first appear during the period of insurance and which 
results in any one of the following events. 
Loss of sight in both eyes 
Permanent total disability by paralysis 
Temporary total disability (while the insured person continues to be disabled, we 
will pay the weekly benefit shown in the schedule for up to fifty two (52) weeks 
from the first date of absence due to illness, less the excess period)
In June 2020, Mr B was diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and a pulmonary 
embolism. To consider the claim from this point, Society of Lloyds asked Mr B for evidence 
of his earnings. But after receiving this, it said Mr B would not be eligible to receive benefits 
under the policy, as the evidence of his earnings showed he had not earned an average 
weekly wage in the 13 weeks prior to the start of the illness. And it said there was no 
evidence he had earned dividends or declared a profit to the tax authorities during the 
relevant period. 
The policy terms state the following about the way a policyholders average weekly wage is 
to be calculated. 
An insured persons average weekly wage (not including payments for overtime, 
commission or
bonuses) before tax and National Insurance for the 13 weeks immediately before the 
first date
they are off work due to the accident or illness.
If the insured person is self-employed or a director or shareholder of a small private 
company,
this will be 1/52 of the total of:
the insured persons net profit as declared to HM Revenue & Customs or the Irish
Revenue; plus
the insured persons regular dividend payments for the 13 weeks before the first 
date
they are off work due to the accident or illness; plus
any items which we consider to be non-refundable overheads in the insured 
persons
trading accounts.
In this calculation we will not include any items we consider to be variable costs.
Mr B complained about his claim being declined. And Society of Lloyds said it thought it had 
assessed the claim fairly. 
Unhappy with Society of Lloyds response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. And 
an investigator here said they thought Society of Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly. 
Society of Lloyds made no comment on the investigators view. However Mr B disagreed. In 
summary he said he thought his condition of high blood pressure had been disregarded and 
he thought the exclusion related to pre-existing conditions was being applied to him unfairly. 
As Mr B disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Society of Lloyds 
has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr Bs health issues, having considered the policy terms alongside 
the evidence supplied, I dont think Society of Lloyds declined his claim unfairly. And I say 
this for the following reasons. 
Having reviewed the medical evidence related to Mr Bs first period of illness 
between March and June 2020, this shows he was unwell and signed off work 
due to a combination of anxiety, depression and high blood pressure. Whilst I 
accept Mr B was unwell, this is not the test I need to apply. It is the terms and 
conditions of the policy which set out the criteria to be met for a valid claim. And 
Society of Lloyds has said Mr Bs claim is not covered under the policy due to an 
exclusion.
Society of Lloyds has pointed to an exclusion relating to mental health 
conditions. And Im satisfied that this exclusion has been applied fairly. This is 
because the exclusion is very clear and states that there is no cover when the 
claim is related to any psychiatric, mental or nervous disorder including stress or 
depression. And the medical records reflect that Mr B had been treated for two 
mental health conditions; anxiety shortly before the start of the first claim period, 
and later for depression. And he reported symptoms of anxiety and panic attacks 
to the GP in his first consultation in March 2020.  
Mr Bs medical records also referenced high blood pressure as a cause of him 
being unable to work in the first claim period of March to June 2020. However, 
there is also evidence recorded by the GP that high blood pressure had been 
stated as a cause for Mr B to be signed off work, as he had not wanted the doctor 
to note down anxiety. The notes recorded by the GP in early March 2020 state 
patient will not let me write anxiety on sick note therefore wrote unwell and 
mentioned his current high blood pressure. This together with the other medical 
evidence Ive seen, persuades me that the greater cause of Mr Bs illness in 
March to June 2020 was his mental health conditions, and that high blood 
pressure was not the primary cause. 
Society of Lloyds has said it hadnt seen sufficient evidence that high blood 
pressure caused Mr B to meet the threshold for a successful claim. And based on 
what Ive said above in regard to the GP records, I dont think this was an 
unreasonable conclusion. The policy terms are particularly strict in this case, in 
that for a successful claim under the illness section of the policy, the insureds 
illness must have caused loss of sight in both eyes, permanent total disability by 
paralysis, or temporary total disability. And I agree that the medical evidence 
presented about Mr Bs high blood pressure doesnt support that he met any of 
the three criteria for an illness claim. 
Society of Lloyds said it thought high blood pressure would also be excluded 
from cover, as it said this was a pre-existing condition. Mr B has said that he 
doesnt think this would be fair, as he has always declared his high blood 
pressure to the insurer. Ive considered this, and although I accept what Mr B has said around declaring 
his high blood pressure, not all sickness policies will cover pre-existing 
conditions, even if these have been declared to the insurer. And in the case of Mr 
Bs policy, I think the policy wording of the illness cover is clear in expressing that 
for an illness to be covered, the symptoms of it must first appear during the 
period of insurance.
Ultimately, I dont think I need to make a finding on whether or not it would be fair 
for Society of Lloyds to exclude a claim related to high blood pressure. And thats 
because thats not what has happened here. Society of Lloyds has not applied 
an exclusion in relation to this condition  it has said it hasnt seen evidence that 
high blood pressure caused Mr B to meet the policy terms for an illness claim 
during the first period of absence, and it said it would consider further evidence of 
this if it is presented. 
If Mr B has further evidence that he met the terms of the cover for an illness due 
to his high blood pressure, he can submit this to Society of Lloyds for review. 
And if he is unhappy with the response, he can raise a further complaint. 
Mr B was diagnosed with DVT and a pulmonary embolism in June 2020. And 
Society of Lloyds has not said this condition was excluded from cover. However 
it has not agreed that this condition caused Mr Bs illness prior to June 2020. And 
based on the medical evidence Ive seen, I think this is fair, as the first mention of 
this condition in Mr Bs medical records is in June 2020. There is a reference to 
Mr B having said in June that he thought he was experiencing the same type of 
pain hed had around 9 weeks earlier. However this is a record of Mr Bs own 
self-reporting an no medical opinion is recorded in relation to this in the notes. 
Society of Lloyds went on to assess Mr Bs average weekly wage for the claim 
based on a start date of 1 June 2020, in relation to him being unwell due to DVT 
and a pulmonary embolism. And Im satisfied it fairly assessed Mr Bs income 
according to the policy terms and conditions. Although I appreciate Mr B had 
been earning more the year prior to the claim period, and he wanted his earnings 
to be calculated based on the last set of accounts his company had filed in 2019, 
this is not the way the policy terms specify earnings must be assessed. It is the 
13 weeks prior to the start of the claim period on 1 June 2020. This is the period 
Society of Lloyds has considered and I dont think it would be reasonable for me 
to direct it to reference any other period in respect of the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Society of Lloyds. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman