DRN-2683613
The complaint
Mr L complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) caused unnecessary delays in settling his Motor 
Insurance claim.
Mr L has been represented when bringing his complaint to us, but for ease I will just refer to 
him. The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr L Ive considered all the points hes provided to our service. But Im 
going to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont 
intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in 
it.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
UKI initially attempted to process a direct payment to Mr Ls account. But due to 
security restrictions this was unsuccessful. I can see from call notes at the time UKI 
said the amount being transferred might have been too high to be authorised by this 
type of payment. As these types of payments are usually for much smaller amounts 
than being transferred to Mr L, I dont think this is unreasonable
Because of this UKI issued Mr L a cheque the same day. UKI said this is their usual 
process and it will only make guaranteed payments in exceptional circumstances. I 
recognise the payment being made by transfer wouldve been more convenient for 
Mr L, but UKI had offered an option for the payment to be made to him and its not 
our services role to comment on how a business operates. So I dont think they 
acted unreasonably here
Ive seen screen shots from UKI showing the cheques had been issued. I can also 
see the address UKI sent it to matches Mr Ls, and is the same one provided to this 
service. So while I appreciate Mr Ls frustration the cheques never arrived, and hes 
experienced no other issues with the post, Im satisfied the cheques were sent  and 
to the correct address. So I cant hold UKI responsible for them not arriving
A second cheque was issued but I can see there were delays in it being processed. I 
think given the situation with the first cheque, and the contact from Mr L, UKI could 
have made sure this was done sooner. Mr L tried to work out alternatives but UKI 
couldnt accommodate them and there were further issues with the second cheque 
not arriving  meaning Mr L again chased the payment with UKI, and he was without 
a vehicle. 
Around three weeks after the second cheque hadnt arrived UKI arranged to have a 
guaranteed transfer processed to Mr Ls account. In their final response, UKI 
apologised for the lack of alternative payment methods they were able to offer  and 
acknowledge there had been delays in processing the second cheque
In recognition of this, UKI offered Mr L £80 compensation. Taking everything into 
account, I think this is a reasonable amount and it fairly reflects the inconvenience 
UKIs actions caused. I wont therefore be asking UKI to make any further payment to 
Mr L
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman