DRN-3878004
The complaint
The estate of Mr L complains about the suitability of the advice he received in 1989 to take
out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan with Mercer Limited and
then to transfer the funds into a new FSAVC plan in 2000.
What happened
Mr L had joined the Navy and so was a member of the Armed Forces Pension Scheme
(AFPS) from 1968 when, in May 1989, he met with John K Miln & Co, now part of Mercer 
which is how Ill refer to the business throughout the rest of my decision. Following the
meeting, Mr L agreed to take out an FSAVC plan with a gross monthly premium of £133.33 
invested into a managed fund - until his normal retirement date of 17 December 2002.
Mr L increased his contributions to £200 per month from February 1992.
In October 1999 Mercer wrote to Mr L to explain that, following a recent change to the rules,
it would now be possible to defer taking the benefits of an FSAVC plan beyond the 
retirement date of the main Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). It confirmed that some 
providers had yet to decide whether to offer that facility and Mr Ls provider was one of 
those. So it said that if Mr L wanted to take advantage of the change in rules then he might 
need to transfer his FSAVC plan to another provider.
In May 2000 the FSAVC provider wrote to Mr L outlining the fund hed accrued and options
for the annual benefits he would be able to receive.
But because of his circumstances Mr L didnt need the income, and because the existing
FSAVC provider hadnt declared its intentions around the new rules, Mercer suggested that
he deferred taking his benefits until age 58 and in order to be able to do that he needed to
transfer to another FSAVC plan that offered such a facility. A statement from the new
provider from 2000 showed a transfer of £38,726.53 took place on 11 July 2000.
Mr L had been due to retire from his role in June 2000, although this was extended to
October 2001. But he was offered another position within the armed forces in July 2000
which he took and continued with until May 2008. He accrued an annual scheme pension of
£3,979.88 from that period of service.
In 2005 Mr L decided to defer taking his benefits from the FSAVC plan having reached his
new selected retirement date (SRD). He changed the SRD to age 65 and switched his
investment into a property fund.
In May 2007, aged 59, Mr L used his FSAVC fund of £46,311 to draw his tax free cash lump
sum of £11,578 and purchase an annuity from a new provider with the residual fund. After he
left the armed forces in 2008, Mr L took up a new training position as a consultant for
a private firm but still operating within the armed forces.
In early 2020 Mr L complained, through a representative, about the suitability of the advice
he was given to take out the original FSAVC plan and then to subsequently transfer to
another one.
Mercer said it couldnt find any evidence that Mr Ls original FSAVC plan was included in the
industry wide pensions review  which included FSAVCs. And as it wasnt satisfied that
Mr L had been made aware of the alternative of buying added years through his OPS, it
upheld Mr Ls complaint about the suitability of the original sale and said it would carry out a
calculation to establish any potential financial loss Mr L had suffered as a result.
But it said that by 2000 the rules had changed, and FSAVC plan benefits were no longer
required to be taken alongside the main scheme when a member retired. So it thought that,
as Mr Ls original provider hadnt established whether it intended to comply with the new
rules when he changed jobs, the advice to transfer his FSAVC plan benefits to a new
provider who had confirmed that its product was in line with the new rules, was appropriate.
It said this was further supported by the fact that Mr L didnt draw his benefits until seven
years later when he was approaching 60. So it didnt uphold that part of Mr Ls complaint.
Mr Ls representative accepted the outcome in respect of the calculation for the unsuitable
original advice but didnt think Mercer had reached the right outcome regarding the transfer
in 2000. It asked a number of questions in respect of the AFPS and the rules in place at the
time.
But as Mr L remained unsatisfied with the outcome, he brought his complaint to us where
one of our investigators looked into the matter. Initially Mercer didnt consent to us looking at
the complaint as it thought it had been made outside of the time allowed. But our investigator
thought it had been made in time, which Mercer then accepted, so the investigator looked at
whether the advice had been suitable. She thought it had and that the complaint relating to
the transfer in 2000 shouldnt be upheld.
She said that Mercer had been unable to determine that Mr Ls original FSAVC provider
would allow him to defer his benefits in line with the recent change in the rules. So, because
Mr L didnt require income at that time, she thought it was reasonable for Mercer to
recommend a transfer to a provider that would allow the deferment. She also took into
account that, as Mr L had left his job in 2000, his OPS would have automatically paid out his
benefits which wouldnt have allowed him to defer the FSAVC.
The representative didnt agree. It said that Mercer had given unsuitable advice on two
occasions in Mr Ls case and was trying to limit its liability to when the FSAVC was
transferred. The representative thought Mr L would have been better to take out another
added years arrangement and reviewed the suitability of the FSAVC plan at that time. It
said it had asked the original provider to confirm that it wouldnt defer the FSAVC plan in
2000 as it also believed that Mr L would have been able to defer his OPS benefits and
wouldnt have needed to draw them at that time in any case.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view and referred the complaint to an
ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review.
My first provisional decision
In my initial provisional decision I said the complaint shouldnt be upheld, although I did set 
out confirmation of the basis on which Mercer ought to carry out the redress calculations it 
had already agreed to, relating to the original 1989 FSAVC sale. I made the following points 
in support of the provisional decision:There didnt appear to be any dispute that suitable advice in 1989 was to have 
entered into an added years arrangement.
The dispute seemed to be around the advice from 2000 when Mercer advised Mr L, 
because he was by now allowed to defer his FSAVC benefits, to transfer them to 
another FSAVC plan. Whereas Mr Ls representative said that he ought to have been 
advised to purchase another added years arrangement at that time.
There was no evidence that Mr L had taken any steps to improve his pension 
benefits after 2000  so it was difficult to decide what he would have done. But I 
thought that it would have required a deliberate action to stop the FSAVC 
contributions Mr L had been making when he transferred to another provider, and I 
didnt think it was in Mercers interest to make that decision itself. I thought Mercer 
would have automatically recommended Mr L to maximise his retirement provision as 
well as wanting to continue to receive commission payments for the contributions.
So I thought it was more likely than not that Mr L made a conscious decision not to 
continue with his FSAVC contributions. But even if he didnt  and he expected them 
to be continued  I would have expected him to have questioned why they werent 
being deducted from his bank account. I thought the evidence suggested that Mr L 
stopped his contributions, which would mean it was unlikely he would have 
purchased added years at that time  especially as they would most likely have 
been more expensive.
I also went on to consider whether the transfer to the new FSAVC provider was 
suitable. I found that the existing provider had since confirmed to Mr Ls 
representative that it wouldnt normally have allowed a deferment of its plan at the 
time. I also took into account the consistency of Mercers approach at the time and 
that its recommendation was in line with what the existing provider has since said. So 
I didnt think, considering the uncertainty of his situation at the time, that the advice to 
recommend a transfer of his FSAVC fund to another provider was unsuitable. 
Although it was with the benefit of hindsight, Mr L didnt draw his benefits until seven 
year later  which he wouldnt have been able to do had he remained with his 
existing provider in 2000.
So I thought the advice in 2000 was suitable and appropriate in the circumstances. I 
didnt think it was likely Mr L could have afforded to take out added years at that 
time as the evidence would suggest he didnt continue with any personal 
contributions to enhance his retirement provision when he transferred the FSAVC.
I said that Mercer should confirm the position with regards to carrying out the redress 
calculation for the advice from 1989, but for completeness I confirmed it should 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators FSAVC review 
methodology on an added years basis.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mercer confirmed that it understood my intention not to uphold Mr Ls complaint about the
2000 advice.
But it also explained that it had to review the suitability of its recommendation from 1989  as
the case handler who had previously agreed to compensate Mr L for that advice had since
left.
It went onto confirm that, having reviewed that advice, it didnt now believe it to be unsuitable
and thought it was in Mr Ls best interest. It went on to explain that because Mr L joined the
AFPS scheme as an officer before he was age 21, he didnt have scope to purchase added
years as he would have achieved maximum service by age 55. So he had several other
AVC options available at the time:
An increase in death in service lump sum benefits.Widows benefits to maximise increases based on representative rates of pay.
Enhance all benefits AVC pension based on final salary rather than representative 
rates for AFPS 75 pension rank.
Mercer said the scheme administrator suggested that Mr L wouldnt have been able to take
these options as he left the scheme as an officer. But in any case it noted that the first two
options werent suitable for him given his circumstances at the time, and the last option  if it
were available to him to maximise his pension benefits, would only have been appropriate if
there was a guarantee that his final salary would have been greater than his representative
pay rank  which wouldnt have been known at the time.
So Mercer concluded that as added years wasnt available to Mr L at the time of its original
advice, and the other enhancement options werent suitable or available, its
recommendation to take out FSAVCs was suitable given his circumstances in 1989.
Unfortunately, on 15 April 2022 Mr L sadly passed away and it wasnt therefore possible to
obtain a response to my provisional decision or indeed to continue dealing with the 
complaint in his name. However, subsequently the representative who brought the initial 
complaint confirmed that the late Mr Ls beneficiaries would like to bring a complaint on 
behalf of his estate.
The complaint was then set up. But before I gave a further decision on the matter, I asked
for any further comments the beneficiaries would like to make about the provisional decision
and Mercers further submissions  in which it changed its mind about compensating the late
Mr L for its 1989 advice. The representative made the following points in submission:
Mercer had caused great inconvenience to the late Mr L, his widow, and his son in 
handling the complaint. It wasnt now possible to put to him the points that had been 
raised about added years not being available to him and whether his final salary 
would have been greater than the representative pay of his rank at retirement.
There was no evidence to support the claim that these technical considerations 
were put to the late Mr L at the time of the sale or that he was directed to the in 
house pensions team for clarification. It understood that all OPS had to offer its 
members in-house AVC options.
The late Mr L had previously confirmed that he didnt leave the service, but was 
transferred when the work he did was sub contracted. It thought this transfer of 
employment and potential change of rank would have undoubtedly change his 
pension entitlement.
Mercer hadnt justified why it thought the transfer of the FSAVC in 2000 was suitable.
If I were to decide that added years wasnt an option for the late Mr L in 1989, it 
wanted me to confirm whether the option of an AVC based on final salary would have 
been available to Mr L at the time rather than assume it was unlikely to be in his best 
interest.
If I decided that both parts of the complaint shouldnt be upheld, it wanted me to
direct Mercer to make a distress and inconvenience award to the late Mr Ls estate in
respect of the costs incurred in bringing the new complaint and the distress caused
by being unable to confirm (with the late Mr L) the points Mercer raised when it
withdrew its offer of redress  for what was previously deemed to be unsuitable
advice.My second provisional decision
Following Mercers new submissions explaining that it didnt think its original advice had 
been unsuitable, I issued a second provisional decision in which I said neither aspects of 
Mercers advice were unsuitable and that I wasnt going to ask it to do anything further. I 
recognised that Mr Ls passing was a very difficult time for his family and that it wouldnt 
have been easy for it to have to resubmit a pension complaint on Mr Ls behalf only to 
discover that the outcome had changed, and he was no longer due any redress. 
I gave the following reasons in support of my revised provisional decision:
No further submissions had been made regarding the advice from 2000  so I didnt 
propose to change my initial conclusion that the advice to transfer the FSAVC had 
been suitable in the circumstances, and that I didnt think the late Mr L would have 
purchased added years at that time instead.
But I had reconsidered the suitability of the advice from 1989 and I now thought that 
advice was suitable. I said that because of the options available to the late Mr L when 
he met with Mercer at the age of 21, he wasnt eligible for added years and the 
resettlement commutation would only have applied upon leaving the service. This 
meant the only possible option at the time was in-house AVCs.  
However, the only option available within the heading of in-house AVCs was 
determined by whether his pensionable pay was likely to be higher than his 
representative pay for his rank at retirement. I thought it was difficult for Mercer to 
decide this would be the case at the time and therefore it was reasonable for it not to 
recommend the in-house AVCs. If the late Mr L had taken up AVCs it was possible 
the contributions may not have had a material influence on his retirement provision  
which Mercer ought to have taken into account when it made its recommendation in 
1989. 
I thought that, regardless of the process Mercer went through to determine its advice, 
the late Mr L probably ended up at retirement in the position he ought to be. I said 
that because he was ineligible for most of the in-house alternatives in 1989 and the 
one option he was eligible for was likely to be inappropriate for his situation. So I 
thought it was more likely than not that the FSAVC plan was in his best interest and I 
was satisfied that the transfer of one FSAVC plan to another in 2000 was also 
suitable.
I had considered whether Mercer should make a compensatory payment to the 
complainants for the distress and inconvenience caused by its change of position. 
But I didnt think it was fair for me to simply punish Mercer for carrying out a review of 
the complaint in light of new evidence it obtained  and I was satisfied the correct 
outcome had now been reached.  
Mercer didnt respond to the decision, but the representative said that it was disappointing 
that I hadnt seen fit to recommend a compensatory payment for the inconvenience caused 
over resolving this complaint. It said that, had Mercer reached the correct outcome initially 
neither the late Mr L nor his family would have been subjected to this complaint process or to 
the anticipation of a redress payment into his pension at a clearly difficult time for everyone 
involved.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further submissions regarding the facts or indeed the 
provisional outcome of the complaint I see no reason to depart from my conclusions.The suitability of the 1989 advice
I went back to the AFPS (75) pension scheme booklet for the late Mr Ls OPS, to confirm 
which options he had to increase his pension scheme provision at the time he met with 
Mercer. The options were, in-house AVCs, the purchase of added years, and resettlement 
commutation. I looked at whether the late Mr L was eligible for, or qualified to take up the 
options  which Ive set out below for each one:
 
Added years
The late Mr L was just 21 when he joined the AFPS as an officer. The AVC added years 
authorisation application form confirms that, if applying under AFPS 75, I can buy added 
years from my 18th (for other ranks) / 21st (for officers) birthday until the day before I joined 
the Armed Forces. So the late Mr L didnt have any shortfall in service when he joined the 
scheme and would have achieved the maximum service available if he retired or left the 
scheme at age 55. So I dont think he was eligible to purchase added years at that time or 
at the very least I dont think that Mercer could have recommended that the late Mr L should 
have purchased added years as a way of enhancing his overall pension benefits.
Resettlement commutation
This option gave a member the chance to commute part of the pension in return for a lump 
sum. But the qualification criteria meant that it applied to someone in Mr Ls situation leaving 
the armed forces before age 55 and on completing at least 16 years service. So I dont think 
this was an option that Mr L was eligible for when he met with Mercer at age 21. This option 
only applied upon leaving the service if certain criteria had been met.
In-house AVCs
The AFPS (75) booklet explained the ways in which AVCs could be used to increase 
retirement provision. Ive set them out below:
Death in Service lump sum  increase from 3 times representative pay to 4 times 
representative pay at the full career point, or 4 times pensionable pay at the date of 
death.
Surviving spouse/civil partners pension  provides your spouse/civil partner with a 
pension worth 4/9ths of representative pay.
Rate of pay upon which the pension is calculated  the actual rate of pensionable 
pay is used if it is more than the representative rate.
I dont think the first two options would have appealed to the late Mr L  or been suitable for 
his circumstances. At age 21 the late Mr L would have been looking simply to increase his 
income provision in retirement as opposed to providing extra death and spousal benefits. 
But I do think the third option might have applied as it did offer the opportunity of increased 
retirement provision, albeit under certain situations.
So Ive looked further at those situations and in particular what the scheme booklet said 
about the difference between representative and pensionable pay. It said, for the vast 
majority, AFPS 75 is calculated on your final rank and length of reckonable service (the 
actual years and days that count towards your pension). Members of the Armed Forces with 
the same rank and same number of years of reckonable service are normally awarded the 
same pension, regardless of their actual pay either at retirement or discharge, or earlier in 
their career. This is known as the representative rate of pay for the rank.
Representative pay is worked out using specially selected rates of military salary and doesnot include extra amounts which those with special qualifications may earn. For those with
special qualifications (e.g. medical officers, dental officers, nurses, professional aviators, and
clearance divers), your pension is paid according to the standard rates of pension, with an
additional supplement for those that qualify.
So the basis of making a recommendation for the third option  as set out above under the 
in-house AVC heading, was that Mercer needed to be sure that the late Mr L would have 
had a higher final salary than the representative pay for his rank. 
The representative in this complaint has said that it was highly likely that Mr L would 
eventually have changed rank or been promoted to a higher rate of final salary, but I have to 
consider what was known at the time of the advice. I think the more likely conclusion to have 
drawn at the time would have been that the late Mr L would most likely not have benefitted 
from receiving a higher pensionable pay instead of representative pay, Therefore it wouldnt 
have been appropriate for Mercer to recommend a solution which may have led to the late 
Mr L making significant contributions to purchase something which might not have made a 
material difference to his retirement provision. 
Obviously I cant discount the possibility that Mr L may have benefitted from a higher 
pensionable pay  but Mercer couldnt have known that at the time of the advice, and I think 
it was more appropriate to recommend a different plan where such a risk didnt exist. 
Of course, I cant now know what was discussed between Mr L and Mercer at the time of the 
advice and whether these differences were taken into account. So I cant conclusively say 
that Mercer went through this process in order to determine the most suitable way forward 
for the late Mr L.
But my role is to establish the position the late Mr L would have been in had the correct 
advice been given at the time, and I think, on balance that he would have been in the same 
position he ended up in at retirement. I say that because in 1989 he wasnt eligible to take 
out added years and I dont think the AVC alternatives were appropriate for his 
circumstances at the time. Given that the late Mr L wanted to maximise his retirement 
provision I dont think it wasnt unsuitable for Mercer to have recommended a FSAVC for that 
purpose.
I have thought carefully about the representatives view that I should tell Mercer to make a 
significant payment for the distress and inconvenience it caused the late Mr Ls estate by 
changing its mind about upholding the complaint and saying that it would carry out a redress 
calculation. 
But, as Ive said previously its not my role to punish a business or to interfere with the way it 
carries out its commercial practices, and I think Mercer was entitled to review the outcome of 
this complaint if the situation changed or it became aware of new information which might 
alter the outcome of the investigation. I have sympathy for the late Mr Ls family here and I 
understand this will be a difficult time for them in any case, regardless of the unfortunate 
chain of events which has led to them not receiving the compensation they assumed would 
be paid even after Mr L sadly passed away. 
But I dont think Mercers advice was unsuitable either in 1989 or 2000. 
I have previously set out my reasons for deciding the subsequent advice in 2000 was 
suitable. I explained in my previous provisional decision that I thought Mercer had confirmed 
why it thought its recommendation was appropriate  and I havent received any further 
submissions on this point following the second provisional decision. But for completeness 
Ive replayed the findings I made about that advice from my provisional decision below.  
Should added years also have been recommended in 2000?Ive thought carefully about what I think should have happened in 2000, because while Mr L
thinks he would have taken out added years in 2000 as well, it would seem that he didnt
contribute to any AVC or additional pension arrangements at this point. His contributions to
the FSAVC didnt continue, and he took no further steps to improve his retirement provision
other than to rejoin the AFPS and to transfer his FSAVC to another provider  so its difficult
to conclude what alternative route Mr L might have taken to improve his pension if he didnt
take any action at all in that regard.
However, that doesnt mean that he wouldnt have taken the added years alternative if hed
been advised to do so, and Ive thought about whether the stopping of the FSAVC plan
premiums was advised by Mercer.
Theres no suitability report available to confirm the advice Mr L was given in 2000  the
adviser at the time said the deadline in transferring the FSAVC benefits meant the
transaction had to be concluded swiftly and there was no time to provide a full report. So Ive
had to decide what actions I think were taken regarding the ongoing contributions to the
FSAVC plan on the balance of probability  or what I think was most likely to happen.
When the FSAVC plan was transferred, contributions would only have ceased if there was a
deliberate action not to include either the same level of contribution  or possibly a lower
level, on the application form. But Im not persuaded it was in Mercers interest to stop the
contributions without Mr Ls authorisation.
I say that because its advice would most likely have been for Mr L to maximise the ongoing
opportunity to increase his pension provision and it would have received ongoing
commission from the provider for any regular contributions.
So I think its more likely than not that Mr L made a conscious decision not to continue with
the FSAVC plan contributions. There could have been a number of reasons for this such as
the uncertainty of when he might retire and the value of making further contributions for a
relatively short period of time, or more likely an issue of affordability. Ive seen evidence to
suggest Mr Ls new position attracted a salary of just over 50% of his previous salary  so
its plausible that he would have seen affordability as an issue at that time.
But even if I am wrong in the assumptions Ive made here, if Mr L didnt authorise the
cessation of his FSAVC plan premiums then its fair to assume that he would have expected
them to have continued. And therefore, I would have expected him to have picked up that
they werent being paid from his bank account  they were after all not an insignificant
amount  and I think he would have alerted either the provider or Mercer to that situation.
The fact that he didnt raise any concerns would suggest to me that Mr L himself had
cancelled the FSAVC plan premiums, and if Mr L had made that decision himself then its
difficult to argue that he would have begun buying added years  which would have more 
likely than not been more expensive.
The suitability of the FSAVC transfer
However, I also have to consider the suitability of the transfer of the FSAVC plan here as
well. There would have needed to be a good reason to advise the transfer as being in Mr Ls
best interest.
Mercer first contacted Mr L about the possibility of deferring his FSAVC plan benefits in
October 1999. It met with him some months later when it seemed that he was going to leave
the AFPS and potentially draw his benefits  which would have meant he had to draw theFSAVC benefits as well. Mercer was consistent in this explanation of the reason for the
transfer as it said Mr Ls existing provider wouldnt allow the deferment of the FSAVC plan
which it had made Mr L aware had now changed under new regulations.
Its unfortunate that Mercer hasnt been able to provide details of a fact find or suitability
report from the time of that advice, but it has been clear in the reasons for recommending
the transfer. So I asked for evidence of the previous FSAVC providers stance on deferment
at the time and Mr Ls representative has confirmed that it wasnt normally available with the
provider at that time.
So, in view of the rules in place at the time, and the uncertainty of Mr Ls position and future
employment, I dont think it was unreasonable to recommend a transfer to another provider
that would have provided the flexible deferment allowed at the time. And, although with the 
benefit of hindsight, it would seem that Mr L didnt draw the FSAVC plan benefits until seven 
years later, which he wouldnt been able to do if hed remained with his existing FSAVC 
provider.
So, I dont think the recommendation to transfer was unsuitable and I think it was more likely
than not that Mr L consciously made the decision to stop the FSAVC plan contributions 
which would mean I cant reasonably say he would have purchased added years in 2000.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint from the estate of Mr L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman