DRN-2157823
The complaint
Miss B complains about what happened when she tried to pay a bankers draft into her
account with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
What happened
Miss B was sent some money from a parent who lives overseas. The money came in the
form of a banker's draft. It was meant to tide her over at a time when she was short of
money. She tried to pay the bankers draft into her account, which she said shes done
before.
Miss B said the money showed as available in her account the day after she made the
deposit, but then it disappeared again. Miss B said she was told repeatedly that the cheque
had bounced. She kept trying to explain that this couldnt happen with a bankers draft, but
she said no one was listening. She finally got through to someone from the bankers draft
team who agreed it wouldnt bounce, and said the branch would investigate, but then no one
investigated. Miss B said she had to borrow money to feed her children.
Over the weekend, Miss B was told the money was in a suspense account in RBS. But after
the weekend, the branch told her she still couldnt have it, and nothing had been done. She
said it took her ten days to get access to the money. RBS had since confirmed that the serial
number had been keyed incorrectly. So she had gone through all of this because of the
banks mistake. It had apologised, paid the money from the draft into her account, and paid a
total of £240 in compensation.
Miss B then contacted us again. She said that RBS had told her that although it had paid the
money into her account, it didnt actually have the funds from the draft. She told us RBS said
it had sent the money back to her parents bank. But it hadnt, it had sent the money back to
an intermediary bank. The intermediary bank said it would send the money back to RBS if
RBS requested it, but RBS wouldnt do that. And RBS said that because her parent had the
money back, it was going to take this money out of her account. Our investigator asked RBS
not to take this money back until wed investigated.
RBS said that Miss B shouldve had her money two days after she paid the draft in. And the
draft shouldnt have been returned. That was a mistake. But RBS said Miss B did have
access to money. She had an overdraft of £500 which she wasnt using in full, as well as
money in other accounts and an unused credit card. So RBS thought she wasnt left without
money before it paid the funds into her account. For those reasons, RBS thought that the
payment it had made of £240 was an appropriate amount to make up for what had
happened.
Miss B then contacted us again, to say that RBS had now told her it was no longer tracing
the money, as the complaint was with our service. She said her parent had checked, and the
money was still with the intermediary bank. She told us her parent had been seriously
unwell, and was having to make repeated trips to the local bank to try to sort this out. And
she said that local bank wasnt willing to help without cost, because RBS had made the
mistake.
RBS then said the bankers draft did bounce. It didnt know why, and it mightve been
because of its mistake. But RBS said it had never received the money that it had credited
into Miss Bs account. RBS seemed to have assumed that the money had been returned to
the originating bank, not an intermediary. It doesnt seem to have investigated this itself.
Miss B sent us evidence that her parent had started the process of cancelling the draft. She
said that she wouldnt be able to get a breakdown of all the costs until the process was
complete. And she was very worried about the effect of RBS taking the money back.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Miss B had agreed that
the best way forward was to cancel the original draft and get another issued. RBS had
agreed to cover any additional costs of this. Our investigator thought this was reasonable, as
long as receipts were provided. Our investigator thought Miss B should repay the original
amount by early February. He said that although errors were made, he felt that RSB had
acknowledged its mistake and made a reasonable offer to reimburse any extra costs now.
And it had offered £240 in compensation. So he didnt think it needed to do more now.
Miss B didnt agree. She said that RBS had made a serious mistake by inputting the wrong
serial number for the bankers draft. Our investigator said that although RBS said this
initially, it had later concluded that it hadnt make a mistake. But Miss B still thought that the
reason the draft didnt clear was because of this initial mistake by RBS. And she showed us
that RBS had written again to confirm the reason the draft didnt clear was because of its
mistake in keying the wrong serial number.
Miss B told us her parents bank had traced the money, and it was being returned there, so a
new draft could be issued. Miss B said that the new draft had cost her parent over $300
more in local currency to send the same amount in pounds sterling, because of the changed
exchange rate in the meantime.
Then Miss B called to say that RBS had made the same mistake again. It had credited the
money from her draft to her account, then taken it back again.
This case then came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
First, Ill deal with the events up to the point when our investigator issued his view, 
then Ill look at more recent events.
Miss B paid in a bankers draft, which was first accepted and paid, then rejected by 
RBS. Im satisfied that this was as a result of a mistake by RBS, not least because 
RBS itself has confirmed this. I think this is why things started to go wrong.
I dont think Miss B was left without access to any money when RBS took back the 
money from this draft. RBS has shown us she had access to borrowing and savings.
RBS did then pay the money from the draft into Miss Bs account. But it also told her 
it didnt have the funds, and she would have to pay the money back. I think this was a 
further mistake by RBS, and it shouldve taken steps to make sure the money wasnt 
just sent back. RBS then doesnt appear to have supported Miss B in trying to find 
the missing money. I wouldve expected it to offer her some support, and in particular accurate information on what it had done with the original draft, and where the money 
went. I havent seen anything so far that makes me think it did this.
Miss B traced the missing money. I understand that has been returned to her parent. 
And she got a second draft issued, at some cost to her parent.
As some time had passed since we last spoke to the parties in this case, I contacted 
both sides to ask about the current position.
RBS said that it received a second draft, in January 2020. It had paid the money from 
this draft into Miss Bs account. That money was then taken back out the next day. I 
asked why there had been difficulties with this draft, when Miss B said she had 
previously paid such drafts into her account without any problems. RBS said The 
attached cheque is drawn abroad and we believe it will not pass through normal 
sterling cheque clearing. More over this cheque should be paid to us by [Miss Bs 
parents bank] they should have unpaid this cheque, hence the customer would have 
been debited for this cheque. Ill comment on this response below.
We also asked Miss B, and she said that nothing had changed. Her parent hadnt 
received back the money from the second draft. RBS still said she owed it the money 
from the first draft, which her parent did get back. Miss Bs parent is struggling to get 
any support locally to trace the money from the second draft, and Miss B said shed 
travelled to see her parent and tried to help, but the only option that has been offered 
by that local bank is to cancel the second draft again.
I dont think that its clear, on the basis of the information I currently have, what went 
wrong with the second draft. I think its likely that this will become clearer in time. But 
this may take some time yet. RBS says it has asked for clarification on this, but RBS 
took two months to respond to my first request for additional information. I dont think 
its fair to Miss B to prolong the whole of this case further now.
I note that RBS also hasnt had an opportunity to respond to a complaint about this 
second draft. And we dont know whether this draft can be successfully cancelled 
and the money retrieved. So I wont reach any decision on any part of this complaint 
that deals with the second draft here. Miss B can bring a second complaint to our 
service about this if she wishes to.
However, I think the problems with the first draft ought to be brought to a resolution.
Although I dont think that Miss B was left without access to funds, I do think RBS has 
made a number of mistakes there, and let Miss B down. It then seems to have left 
her to fix the problems it created, and to find a large amount of missing money. That 
has involved considerable trouble, and cost, for both Miss B and her parent.
Miss Bs parent isnt a party to this case, and I cant award compensation for costs 
incurred by third parties, or for trouble that others have been put to. I note that RBS 
has offered to refund any additional costs that Miss B can evidence that her parent 
incurred. It hasnt given any commitment to meet the losses incurred because of a 
change in exchange rate, which Miss B has evidenced.
But I can award compensation to Miss B. And I can see that Miss B herself has been 
put to a considerable amount of trouble, both in trying to trace all of the money 
involved, and to support her parent in doing the same.
Miss B is also faced with needing to pay RBS back funds that it effectively lent to her, 
whilst at the same time returning the underlying bankers draft unpaid. She was paid £240 in compensation, and £3,650 as a loan, in September 2019. RBS wants the 
£3,650 back.
The compensation Miss B received was for the trouble shed faced when the funds 
were taken out of her account, before they were paid back. A lot more has gone 
wrong in this case since then. So I think RBS should pay considerably more 
compensation than it has paid to date. And I think the easiest and fairest way to do 
that, is to require that RBS only reclaims part of the money it lent to Miss B. So I 
propose to say RBS can only ask Miss B to pay back £3,150 out of the money it lent 
her.
RBS should allow Miss B a six month period to do this, from the date that Miss B 
accepts this decision. That would also allow Miss B to choose to repay in instalments 
if she wishes, or to repay all the money at the end of the six months.
Im allowing six months for repayment, in the hope that this will leave enough time for  
funds from the second draft to be recovered, although this decision would stand 
whether or not that was done. Once that time is up, RBS can treat this as any other 
debt.
I know that Miss B and her parent prefer to avoid the cost of wiring money from  
overseas to a UK account. However, RBS has twice failed to cash these drafts. I 
would suggest Miss B would be wise now to find another way to receive her funds 
into the UK. I appreciate that this will put her to some further trouble, and Ive taken 
that into account in reaching my decision on this case.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc cannot seek to recover more than 
£3,150 of the £3,650 credit it made into Miss Bs account on 13 September 2019. And it 
should not seek to enforce any repayment for six months, starting from the date that Miss B 
accepts my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman