DRN-3698802
The complaint
Mr A complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that HSBC Bank Plc didnt do 
enough to stop that happening or to recover his money.
What happened
Mr A was advised to invest in cryptocurrency by a broker claiming to work for a company Ill 
refer to as C. The broker told him to make payments to a cryptocurrency exchange 
company Ill refer to as B before sending the money to an online wallet. 
Between 18 December 2020 and 15 Jan 2021, Mr A made five payments of £3,700, £3,500, 
£5,000, £4,400, and £5,000 using his HSBC Visa debit card  linked to his current account. 
When he realised hed been the victim of a scam, Mr A contacted HSBC to ask it to help him 
get his money back. But HSBC told him a request under Visas chargeback scheme would 
be unsuccessful. It said there was insufficient evidence to support a claim for 
misrepresentation and that B had fulfilled its obligation to pass the funds to an online wallet.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and so he complained to HSBC, but it maintained its position, 
confirming it had processed the claim for a refund correctly and in accordance with Visas 
chargeback rules.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. Responding to the complaint, 
HSBC explained it had been unable to raise a chargeback request because all the 
transactions had been authorised by Mr A using a one-time password and Mr A had failed to 
prove B hadnt supplied the agreed services.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he was satisfied HSBC had 
acted fairly by declining to reimburse Mr As losses. He explained the starting point is that Mr 
A was liable for payments he authorised and that as chargeback is a voluntary scheme, 
HSBC isn't required to put a claim forward unless that claim was likely to succeed. He 
commented that, in this case, the payments were made to a legitimate crypto exchange 
company which had provided the service it was obliged to provide, so a chargeback wouldnt 
be successful.
Our investigator went on to explain that there was no adverse information recorded about B 
with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), and the payments wouldnt have triggered HSBCs anti-fraud 
systems based because they werent particularly large or out of character and they werent 
unusual because Mr A had previously made several large payments to another 
cryptocurrency exchange company. He concluded he wouldnt have expected HSBC to have 
intervened when Mr A made the payments and, consequently, it hadnt missed an 
opportunity to prevent his loss.
Mr A has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Hes argued that HSBC 
should've blocked the disputed transactions and that it had a responsibility to monitor and 
detect unusual activity on his account. Hes argued the size and sequence of the payments 
werent consistent with his regular account activity and as he isnt an experienced investor it 
was for HSBC to spot the hallmarks of an investment scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr A authorised the payments. This is because they were made by 
him using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by HSBC. Mr A believes hes 
entitled to a refund because, even though he authorised the payments, he was the victim of 
a scam and HSBC should have either done more to stop that happening or help him get the 
money back.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded C was operating a scam. 
Although Mr A didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, B was a 
genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, HSBC has an obligation to be alert to 
fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to consider 
whether HSBC ought to have intervened to warn Mr A when he tried to make the payments.  
If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect HSBC to intervene 
with a view to protecting its customers from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr A 
normally ran his account and I dont think they were. This is because they werent for 
unusually high amounts when considering the normal operation of Mr As account and he 
had previously made payments to crypto exchange companies. Because of this, I dont think 
the fact HSBCs fraud systems werent triggered by the payments was either unfair or 
unreasonable.
Chargeback
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Mr As payments 
when he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr A).HSBC didnt raise chargeback claims because B had fulfilled its obligations to convert Mr As 
payments to crypto and then deposit the crypto onto a wallet address using Mr As 
instructions, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr A lost 
such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think HSBC is 
to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman