DRN-2414408
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs H took out a PPI policy during a meeting in 1996 to protect their mortgage 
repayments. The policy gave them accident, sickness and unemployment cover and they 
paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr C and Mrs Hs complaint. Mr C and Mrs H disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the
balance of probabilities. So on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and
the wider circumstances. Santander has been unable to confirm the benefit split between 
Mr C and Mrs H or the benefit level they selected so I have based my analysis on the 
information we have.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C and Mrs H say they dont remember anyone explaining PPI to them. I cant know what 
was said to Mr C and Mrs H, but based on what we know about the banks sales process at 
the time its most likely Mr C and Mrs H would have been given information about the policy 
allowing them to decide if they wanted it. They would have needed to complete a separate 
PPI application form and direct debit mandate for the cover to be set up.
Ive thought carefully about Mr C and Mrs Hs comments, but I also have to consider how 
long ago the sale was and how that might impact what they recall. Overall, without stronger 
evidence to the contrary, I think its most likely that it was made clear to Mr C and Mrs H that 
they had a choice about whether to take the PPI, and they agreed to take it out.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr C and Mrs H, so it had a responsibility to check it 
was right for them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for them, based on what theyve 
told us about their circumstances at the time. Mr C was entitled to six months sick pay and 
Mrs H was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick. But the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 24 months. It also 
gave them up to 24 months redundancy cover so would have allowed them to protect any 
lump sum redundancy payment, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult 
time. Mr C also had a death-in-service benefit from his employer but this protects against a 
different event and wouldnt help with monthly mortgage repayments in the same way as 
PPI. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful if Mr C and Mrs H were sick, had an 
accident or lost their job(s).
As Santander no longer knows how the benefit was allocated between Mr C and Mrs H I 
cant know it made the right recommendation about the split. But no matter how the cover 
was set up, the overall cost to Mr C and Mrs H wouldve been the same. This is because the 
cost of this policy was based on the benefit it would pay. So although the way the benefit 
was split between them might not have been right for their circumstances, the cost wouldnt 
have changed if the benefit had been shared differently.
This means Mr C and Mrs H might only be worse off if one party made a claim and received 
less than they should have. But Ive seen no evidence this happened. So, as Mr C and 
Mrs H never made a claim on their policy they havent lost out.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr C and Mrs H all the information they needed before 
they decided to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear, but the PPI was 
reasonably priced and apparently affordable. I also dont know that it pointed out the main 
things the policy didnt cover. But it seems Mr C and Mrs H werent affected by any of the 
main exclusions or limitations. So I dont think better information wouldve changed their 
decision.
It follows I dont think Mr C and Mrs H have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman