DRN-3553293
The complaint
Mr K complains that CB Payments Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr K became involved with what he believed was a genuine cryptocurrency 
trading platform. Unfortunately, he was actually dealing with fraudsters. He deposited funds 
into a CB Payments electronic money account, before converting those funds into 
cryptocurrency, which credited a cryptocurrency account held in his own name and provided 
by a separate entity  Coinbase UK Limited. From that account he sent his cryptocurrency to 
blockchain addresses presumably controlled by the fraudster. In total, Mr K lost over 
€300,000.  
In October 2020 he reported the matter to CB Payments. Coinbase (responding on behalf of 
both CB Payments and Coinbase UK) responded to his complaint. It said that it had no 
connection with the fraudulent trading platform, was unable to recover his funds and, 
because hed made the payments himself, it had no liability to him. 
Mr K referred the matter to our service. Coinbase said our service didnt have the power to 
consider the complaint as it did not relate to the regulated electronic money services 
provided by CB Payments, but rather the unregulated cryptocurrency activity provided by 
Coinbase UK.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. They were initially of the view that our 
service couldnt consider the complaint but, after further clarification from Mr K, they were 
satisfied that parts of Mr Ks complaint did relate to the electronic money activities provided 
by CB Payments  in particular those which related to whether CB Payments failed to 
identify suspicious activity on his account and carry out adequate due diligence.
However, the investigator concluded that CB Payments couldnt have reasonably believed 
that Mr K was at risk of financial harm from fraud, so they didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view, but CB Payments didnt provide any further 
submissions. In summary Mr K said:
- When CB Payments transferred his funds from one part of its organisation to 
another, it ought to have checked what the funds were being used for to ensure that 
no crime was being committed.
- CB Payments had an obligation to protect him from being scammed and it breached 
that obligation. In fact, its business model makes it easy for fraudsters to operate.
- The fact he transferred large amounts as a new customer should have been 
sufficient for the activity to flag with CB Payments.
- Checking the identity of a client is not sufficient to counter money laundering risks, 
they need to comprehensively check the destination of funds. 
- CB Payments violated a code of conduct they are supposed to adhere to.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that our service cannot consider the actions of 
Coinbase UK, so I dont need to comment on this further. Neither is it in dispute that Mr K 
made the purchases of cryptocurrency from his CB Payments account himself. So, the 
starting point is that he, rather than CB Payments, is responsible for the loss.
However, in line with good industry practice, I agree that CB Payments should monitor its 
customers accounts for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud. This should include monitoring account activity for transactions that are unusual 
or out of character. In some circumstances, it should take additional steps, or carry out 
additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud.
Mr K had seemingly only opened his CB Payments account for the purpose of paying the 
fraudsters. It follows that there was no meaningful transaction history to compare the 
disputed activity against in order to establish whether that activity was typical for him. Im 
also conscious that a CB Payments account can only really be used for one purpose  to 
purchase, or receive the proceeds from the sale of, cryptocurrency. And, thats exactly what 
Mr K was doing. 
Mr K suggests that the fact he was a new customer making significant payments, ought to 
have caused CB Payments more, rather than less, concern. But I think its important not to 
conflate CB Payments obligations in relation to combatting money laundering with its 
obligations to protect customers from financial harm from fraud. Even if CB Payments had 
suspected money laundering, it doesnt necessarily follow that it should have contacted Mr K 
to discuss its concerns. In fact, quite the opposite may be true, such enquiries might put a 
money launderer on notice. And, in this case, theres no suggestion that Mr K was in any 
way involved in money laundering  he was who he said he was, and the source of his funds 
was entirely legitimate. 
Though I agree CB Payments, in most cases, should take some steps to understand what a 
customers funds are going to be used for, I dont think, in this case, that obligation extended 
beyond finding out the broad purpose  in this case to invest  not the specifics of who the 
money was being sent to and the circumstances surrounding each transaction.
Neither can I agree there was any general obligation on CB Payments to make enquiries 
with its customer about the destination of the funds (which, in any case, the immediate 
destination was his own Coinbase UK account). Thats not to say CB Payments dont have 
any obligation to check the destination of funds  for example by not sending money to 
destination accounts which have previously been flagged as relating to fraud, but thats not a 
general obligation to check who controls each and every destination account. I think CB 
Payments were only obligated to make such enquiries where it had reasonable grounds to 
suspect Mr K was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive reviewed the code of conduct that Mr K refers to, but it does little more than reinforce the 
obligations that Ive already agreed CB Payments had (to monitor customers accounts) and, in any case, it again primarily relates to combatting money laundering. It also highlights the 
particular risks around cryptocurrency but isnt descriptive about the actions a firm should 
take and it doesnt, I think, provide any basis for me to uphold this complaint about CB 
Payments.
Overall, I dont think that, considering CB Payments obligations at the time and what it knew  
(and ought to have known) about Mr K, there were sufficient grounds to suspect that he was 
falling victim to a scam  so it follows that it didnt make a mistake by failing to question him 
about the disputed activity or his overall use of the account.
I know that this outcome will be very disappointing for Mr K and I understand this fraud has 
had a devastating impact on him, but I dont think CB Payments have made a mistake by 
declining his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman