DRN-4214796
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs Xs complaint is about a claim they made on their Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to RSA include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs X made a claim on their RSA legal expenses insurance policy for cover to deal 
with a dispute with their neighbours and the company that owns the freehold of their 
property. 
RSA arranged for their panel firm to assess the claim against that company, but the panel 
firm concluded the claim wasnt covered by the policy as it related to matters of company 
law. As for the remaining claims, RSAs panel firm assessed them not to have reasonable 
prospects of success, as required by the policy.
Mr A and Mrs X litigated the claims themselves to conclusion and were successful, but they 
incurred considerable costs in doing so. They want RSA to fund their costs in pursing the 
claim RSA said was covered because it related to matters of company law because they feel 
RSAs stance on this was wrong.
Our investigator considered Mr A and Mrs Xs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
He thought that the claim against the company that owned the freehold of Mr A and Mrs Xs 
property should have been covered by the policy, subject to the remaining policy terms. He 
directed that RSA instruct a panel Solicitor to assess the merits of the claim, including 
whether it was proportionate to pursue, based on the information available when Mr A and 
Mrs X made their claim. The investigator said that if the assessment proves to be positive 
then RSA should pay Mr A and Mrs Xs costs up to the limit of indemnity. 
RSA have agreed to the investigators findings, but Mr A and Mrs X have not. They say that 
if the assessment of their claim is positive, RSA should discharge all their costs which are 
more than the limit of indemnity available under the policy. Theyve also made some 
submissions about the prospects assessment, as directed by the investigator.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr A and Mrs Xs complaint for the same reasons set out 
by the investigator.
RSA has accepted the investigators findings so it follows that theyve also accepted they 
should have considered the merits of Mr A and Mrs Xs claim against the company that 
owned the freehold of their property, rather than take the view this was a matter of company 
law so not covered under the policy. Because of this, I dont need to determine the matter as 
its now been agreed by RSA. The issue I need to consider is what RSA should do to put 
things right. 
I appreciate that Mr A and Mrs X arent comfortable with an unknown Solicitor assessing the 
merits of the claim they made as this opens them up to the risk that their claim might not be 
covered. I appreciate that they incurred over £50,00 worth of costs themselves and that the 
risk of now not being able to recover this based on a Solicitors opinion might be daunting, 
but the recommendation the investigator made is not outside this Services usual approach 
to matters of this nature. 
Whilst Mr A and Mrs X made the decision to pursue the claim themselves, I cant say that 
RSA need to be responsible for the cost of this if it didnt meet the terms of the policy. As 
with most before the event insurance policies, Mr A and Mrs Xs policy requires the policy to 
have reasonable prospects of success- so be more likely than not to win. This essentially 
translates to the claim having over 51% prospects of success at the time it was made. And it 
includes the requirement for the claim to be proportionate to pursue.  
I know that Mr A and Mrs X arent comfortable with that assessment being from either the 
panel firm or a Solicitor of RSAs choosing, but if things had gone as they should and RSA 
had accepted the claim as one that fell within cover, they would have been entitled to have 
the matter assessed by their own choice of Solicitor. Thats because they would be 
responsible for funding the claim if it had reasonable prospects of success. So, it follows that 
they should be entitled to choose who assesses the claim. I think that principle is still 
applicable here and therefore I agree that RSA should appoint either the panel firm or their 
own choice of Solicitor to consider the merits of the claim Mr A and Mrs X made in the First 
Tier Tribunal. 
The investigator directed that the firm RSA instruct should be provided with the information 
available in the claim up until April 2022, which is when Mr A and Mrs X first asked for help. I 
think thats the right approach. It wouldnt be fair for the relevant firm to be provided with 
everything that came out of the litigation thereafter nor indeed the outcome of it because it 
would paint a skewed picture of the evidence available at the time the claim was made. If 
RSA had accepted the claim, the assessment it would have obtained would have been 
based on all that was available at the time. As such, its fair that Mr A and Mrs X shouldnt be 
given an unfair advantage at this point. 
When making this determination, Ive considered everything that Mr A and Mrs X have said 
but there isnt an alternative approach I consider to be fair in this case. And whilst I know that 
their own Solicitor felt they couldnt put a value on the merits of their claim mid-way through 
proceedings, that doesnt mean another Solicitor wont be able to. Indeed, such 
assessments are commonplace in insurance funded claims so I would expect a 
determination to be capable of being made, even if its not necessarily a positive one. 
I understand that Mr A and Mrs X are concerned that if the claim does have reasonable 
prospects of success, RSA will only pay their costs up to the limit of indemnity. They feel that 
RSA should discharge everything theyve incurred. I understand their point, but I dont agree 
with it. Its clear that Mr A and Mrs X were prepared to fund the claim they pursued to 
conclusion, either with or without RSAs help. By doing so, they accepted the liability that 
followed. The purpose of this award it to put them back in the position they would have been 
in had RSA agreed to fund the claim. So, if the claim is one that is capable of cover, all Mr A 
and Mrs X will be entitled to is their costs up to the limit of indemnity. Because of this, I dont 
think RSA need to pick up any of Mr A and Mrs Xs Solicitors costs beyond this. 
The other thing to note is that if the claim had been covered by RSA from the outset, they 
would have likely instructed their own panel firm to act for Mr A and Mrs X at lower rates, meaning the cover might have extended further than the costs actually incurred and possibly 
meant they wouldnt have exceeded the indemnity limit. By awarding reimbursement of their 
reasonable legal costs actually incurred in this litigation (albeit on a reasonably incurred 
basis) at the hourly rate they were incurred, up to the indemnity limit applicable to the policy, 
I have tried to put Mr A and Mrs X back in the position they would have been in had things 
gone as they should. This strikes a balance between the possibility that they might have 
chosen to instruct their own Solicitors when proceedings became necessary. When thinking 
about the shortfall beyond the indemnity limit, Ive taken into account the fact that Mr A and 
Mrs X would have gone ahead with the claim irrespective of RSA cover so this isnt 
something they should be reimbursed for. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out above, RSA should:
Instruct their panel firm or another suitably qualified Solicitor to provide a legal opinion on 
the merits of Mr A and Mrs Xs claim in the First Tier Tribunal based on the information 
available in April 2022. 
The panel firm should not be told of the outcome of the proceedings Mr A and Mrs X 
pursued or be provided with anything outside the scope of what was available to Mr A 
and Mrs X in terms of evidence in April 2022.
If the panel firms opinion is that the matter had reasonable prospects of success, then 
RSA should reimburse Mr A and Mrs X for the reasonable legal costs they incurred in 
this litigation at the hourly rate they were incurred, up to the indemnity limit applicable to 
the policy. RSA are entitled to have those costs assessed. Mr A and Mrs X may 
challenge this assessment by obtaining their own cost assessment by a cost draftsmen 
or apply to Court for a detailed assessment, if the matter cannot be agreed with RSA.
If the panel firm concludes Mr A and Mrs Xs claim doesnt have reasonable prospects of 
success or isnt proportionate to pursue, Mr A and Mrs X may challenge this by obtaining 
an opinion from a suitably qualified Solicitor, based on the same information RSAs 
Solicitor considered. Because of this anyone they choose to instruct must not have 
knowledge of or have been involved in the original claim. If the opinion is positive, RSA 
can accept it or instruct a suitably qualified Barrister to make a final determination of the 
merits of Mr A and Mrs Xs claim.My final decision
I uphold Mr A and Mrs Xs complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited and 
direct it to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman