DRN-3339237
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected the claim they made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system 
and an air source heat pump (ASHP) sold to them by a supplier company Ill call P.
To resolve their complaint, Mr and Mrs C wanted the solar panel system and ASHP removed 
and their two finance agreements with Shawbrook cancelled.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C wanted an alternative energy solution for their home as their oil system was 
inefficient and they wanted to reduce their bills. They contacted P and, after being visited by 
two representatives of P in or around July 2018 decided to purchase the solar panel system, 
and ASHP, and finance them through two fixed sum loan agreements with Shawbrook.
P sent Mr C a solar and voltage optimiser quotation. And on the following day P sent Mr C a 
quote for the ASHP. The solar panel system (the system) and ASHP were subsequently 
installed in August 2018.
The cost of the system was £9,943. Mr C paid a deposit of £100. The term of the loan was 
122 months, the monthly repayments £118.84 and the total amount payable £14,360.80. Ill 
call this Loan A. Mr and Mrs C made two payments towards Loan A, one in November and 
one in December 2018.
The cost of the ASHP was £14,995. The term of the loan was 98 months, the monthly 
repayments £211.59 and the total amount payable £20,312.64. Ill call this Loan B. Mr and 
Mrs C made one payment towards Loan B, in November 2018.
Overall, the total credit was £24,838, and the total amount payable was £35,234.30. Mr and 
Mrs C have explained they only made a couple of loan repayments because they soon 
began to feel both the system and ASHP had been misrepresented to them.
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs C complained to P and Shawbrook. They made the following 
points which Ive summarised against the respective products:
The Solar Panel System
They were told that the energy savings and income received from the Feed in Tariff 
(FIT) payments would mean the system would pay for itself;
They were told to purchase a battery at additional cost  they didnt buy one because 
they started to feel the system had been mis-sold, but without a battery the system 
was redundant;
They were told theyd need to buy virtually no energy from the grid;
The FIT account wasnt opened until 28 October 2018 because of an initial problem 
with the MPAN number on the MCS certificate;
The voltage optimiser didnt make their electricity usage more efficient as promised; 
and
Theyd been told the system would generate 3300 kWh per annum, but it wasnt 
generating in line with expectations.
The ASHP
They were told theyd save £228 per month on oil costs  as the finance payments 
for the ASHP were £211 It was pitched that the system pays for itself, but the ASHP 
had increased their electricity bill by £235 per month;
The property needed to have an energy performance rating of Band D or above to be 
suitable for an ASHP  the Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) commissioned by 
P said the property had a total floor area of 212 square metres and gave a D rating, 
but an earlier EPC completed in May 2014 said the property had a total floor area of 
201 square metres and gave an E rating  Mr C thought the EPC rating had been 
artificially inflated by Ps energy assessor to make the property eligible for the ASHP 
when it shouldnt have been;
Theyd since done research which told them the ASHP is not suitable for older 
houses like theirs;
An issue with the hot water pressure was resolved on 19 November 2018 with a 
replacement valve, but the pressure was still not powerful enough to power a 
shower as described;
The installation was completed on 17 August 2018, but the correct meters werent 
fitted until 5 November 2018;
There was a delay of just over a month following installation for them to receive their 
handover documents so they couldnt apply for the Domestic Renewable Heat 
Incentive (RHI)1 or a Metering and Monitoring Service Package (MMSP) until 
24 September 2018;
They were led to believe the ASHP would generate a RHI payment of £430 per 
quarter; and
They were told the RHI payments would be in place before the loan repayments 
became due.
They also said they were surprised that Shawbrook had lent them over the 2 contracts, 
nearly £35,000, because theyd been declined for a bank loan in June 2018.
P replied to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in February 2019. They said:
The Solar Panel System
1 The Domestic RHI is a Government financial incentive introduced by the Department for Business, 
Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS) to encourage the use of renewable heat. People who join the 
scheme and keep to its rules receive payments every three months for seven years.They were unable to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs claim that theyd been provided with 
incorrect information at the point of sale;
The salesperson thoroughly went through the contents of both the contract and the 
finance agreement, and Mr and Mrs C signed these;
The systems cost, expected generation, expected returns and monthly loan 
repayments were clearly set out;
The declaration page of the agreement provided the average monthly difference, 
between the expected returns and monthly loan repayments;
Solar panels are not completely able to cover a propertys electricity consumption 
especially without the installation of a battery system  the savings the system was 
expected to provide without a battery were set out in the documentation;
It was too early to say whether the system was performing as it should because of 
the time of year, but if the generation meter showed underperformance an engineer 
would attend and rectify any issues; and
The voltage optimiser looked to be doing what it should.
The ASHP
The seven-year benefit as shown on the estimate and contract worked out as an 
average of £183.14 per month;
It was clear that the monthly loan repayment would be £211.59;
They were sorry thered been a delay with the RHI payments but that was not within 
their control;
The EPC assessment had been carried out by an independent energy assessor and 
was necessary as to be eligible for the RHI scheme a property must have an EPC 
less than 2 years old without any recommendation for loft or cavity wall insulation; 
and
They acknowledged there had been some relatively minor issues with the system 
following installation but considered these resolved.
What Mr and Mrs C told us
When Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us, they said their house was now colder than 
when theyd had the oil system, and their electric bill had doubled despite having the system.
Mr and Mrs C also explained that their credit files had been in query since January 2019 
because of their non-payment of Loan A and Loan B, and said that had prevented them from 
re-mortgaging and obtaining a consolidation loan. They also explained the FIT payments 
theyd received had been far lower than expected. They said, this is far from a system that 
will pay for itself [or] practically living off grid as described by the solar panel salesman. 
They said that they stopped sending meter readings to be able to receive FIT payments as 
they wanted to wash our hands with it all.
They said theyd not been worried about getting into debt to purchase the systems because 
theyd been assured they would pay for themselves; we could of never afforded £35k otherwise.
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs C received notification that the ASHP no longer had Domestic 
RHI accreditation because theyd failed to make the necessary annual declaration in 2019. 
The effect of this was that theyd receive no further RHI payments for any heat generated by 
it.
What Shawbrook told us
Shawbrook rejected Mr and Mrs Cs claim. They didnt agree that the system or ASHP had 
been misrepresented. They also didnt agree the lending had been unaffordable.
They said theyd carried out appropriate checks, and the credit appeared to be manageable. 
They said they hadnt confirmed Mr and Mrs Cs income but had relied on a joint net monthly 
income of £4,063.00 with expenditure of £2,545.00; leaving a disposable income of £1,518 
per month. They said with Loan A and Loan B their debt to income ratio was 98%. Theyd 
assumed credit card debt payments at 5% minimum when calculating their expenditure.
Inspections
In response to our investigators request, Shawbrook arranged an inspection of both the 
system and the ASHP. The system was inspected by P. The meter reading taken on the 
date of inspection shows that the system is generating within 10% of the generation 
estimation given at the point of sale. Overall, the inspection concluded the system is working 
correctly but recommended to boost the performance that Mr and Mrs C get the panels 
cleaned and trim some trees which had begun to cause shading.
The ASHP was also inspected. The inspection report identified some maintenance issues. 
As a gesture of goodwill, Shawbrook offered to pay for the maintenance work to be done.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators looked into what happened and reached the following conclusions:
Was the solar panel system misrepresented?
Our investigator didnt think that the solar panel system had been misrepresented. She 
considered that a document called Your Personal Solar Quotation (the solar quote) which 
had been given to Mr and Mrs C by P, formed a central part of the sales presentation. She 
said the solar quote set out clearly that the FIT payments alone wouldnt cover the cost of 
the loan, and that the total benefits they could expect from the system wouldnt cover the 
cost of the loan from year one either. In short, she thought it had been made clear that the 
system wouldnt be self-funding from the start.
She accepted, however, that P had told Mr and Mrs C the system would be self-funding 
before the end of the loan term. But she didnt conclude that this was an untrue statement of 
fact. She said the underlying assumptions P had used to estimate the financial benefits 
Mr and Mrs C could expect to receive from the system  i.e. the expected generation, energy 
usage, increase in utility prices and uplift in FIT payments  had been reasonable. She also 
said shed seen no evidence that the system was underperforming when compared to the 
estimates given in the solar quote.
Was the ASHP misrepresented?
Our investigator noted that Mr and Mrs C had been provided with a document called Your Personal Energy Saving Solution (the ASHP quote) which she thought set out clearly the 
costs and benefits of the ASHP. These figures didnt include any finance costs but showed 
that the ASHP was expected to pay for itself within seven years of installation  with the total 
benefits over seven years amounting to £15,384.33. She also noted that Mr and Mrs C had 
been supplied with a copy of the credit agreement which showed the total amount payable 
including finance costs would be more than £20,000.
The investigator then looked at whether the ASHP was, in fact, generating the predicted 
benefits and savings. She noted that Mr and Mrs C had received £2,383 in RHI and MMSP 
payments in the first year of having the ASHP, and that this aligned with what the ASHP 
quote had said they could expect. She acknowledged that theyre no longer receiving RHI, 
but didnt think that was the fault of P.
With regard to the savings provided by the ASHP, our investigator said Mr and Mrs C had 
provided several energy bills and from these shed calculated that before the ASHP was 
installed theyd consumed an average of 11,423kWh electricity per year and after installation 
theyd consumed an average of 17,969kWh per year. She also calculated that before they 
had the ASHP theyd spent £2,736 on oil (£228 x12) and £2,203.88 on electricity  a total of 
£4,939.88 per year.
After the ASHP she said their costs were, £2,539 for the loan (£211.59 x 12) and £3,482.13 
on electricity, but with the RHI payments taken into account their total costs post installation 
were £4,305.13. So, she didnt think the ASHP had increased their costs or been 
misrepresented by P at the point of sale. She thought the RHI payments were as predicted 
and their energy costs were, overall, lower.
She also didnt think P had given Mr and Mrs C incorrect information about when the RHI 
payments would begin. About Mr and Mrs Cs concerns regarding the EPC, the investigator 
said it had been completed by an independent energy assessor and shed been provided 
with no expert evidence to undermine that assessment.
Was the lending irresponsible?
Turning to whether Shawbrooks decision to lend to Mr and Mrs C was irresponsible, our 
investigator found that Shawbrook had failed to undertake reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy themselves that Mr and Mrs C would be able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable way. In particular, she said Shawbrook had failed to check Mr and Mrs Cs 
declared income, even though the debt to income ratio was high. And she said Shawbrook 
had significantly underestimated Mr and Mrs Cs expenditure on running credit account 
(credit card) repayments by assuming minimum repayments at 5% of the balance 
outstanding in their calculations.
Overall, she said Shawbrooks decision to lend to Mr and Mrs C placed them at heightened 
risk of financial distress and was irresponsible. So, she didnt think Shawbrook should have 
lent them the money for the system or the ASHP.
Putting things right
Recognising that, with the system and ASHP already installed at their property (and 
therefore subsumed into the value of the property), its not possible to put Mr and Mrs C in 
the position they would have been had Shawbrook not lent to them, our investigator said 
Shawbrook should make it so that the loans dont cost them more than the capital borrowed. 
So, they would effectively be interest free.
Responses to the viewAlthough they didnt accept that theyd failed to complete a thorough affordability 
assessment, Shawbrook agreed to adjust both loan accounts in the way the investigator had 
set out so that Mr and Mrs C dont pay back more than the capital borrowed. Shawbrook 
also agreed to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr and Mrs Cs credit files, and 
discuss an affordable repayment plan.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this outcome. They said they still believed both systems had 
been mis-sold because theyd been told theyd be self-funding through income and savings, 
and they werent. They said the benefits of both the system and ASHP had been vastly 
inflated. Mr C also made the following points:
P had dishonestly enhanced their propertys energy efficiency rating so that they 
qualified for the ASHP, when they really shouldnt have  the ASHP was not suitable 
for their home (a property too old to have cavity wall insulation) and the property was 
always cold after installation;
They didnt receive a battery with the solar panel system as they expected, so the 
system doesnt perform in line with the quotation estimations (which they said are 
based on the system including a battery); and
The loans, even at 0% interest, were still unaffordable for them.
Mr C said, How can you say on one hand, that Shawbrook shouldn't of leant us the money, 
because they were unaffordable, yet on the other hand, say we have to pay the money 
back?
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator did and for broadly the 
same reasons. I know that Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed by this. But whilst Im sorry to 
hear that theyve found themselves in financial difficulty, and I can appreciate why they 
brought their complaint, I dont think either the system or the ASHP were misrepresented. 
However, Im upholding this complaint because I do agree that Shawbrook lent to Mr and 
Mrs C irresponsibly. Ill explain my reasoning against each point of the complaint, but first Ill 
set out the considerations I think are relevant.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr and Mrs C paid for the system and ASHP with fixed sum loan agreements, 
Shawbrook agrees that section 75 applies to these transactions. This means that Mr and 
Mrs C could claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by P in the same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive 
taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs C and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Was the solar panel system misrepresented?
Mr and Mrs C say they bought the system on the basis that it would pay for itself through a 
combination of energy savings and FIT income but that it didnt do so or generate the 
amount of electricity expected.
There are several key documents that have been provided by both parties. These include 
the credit agreement and the solar quote. Ive considered these in detail and whether they 
support the misrepresentations Mr and Mrs C claim P made.
The solar quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. I agree with the 
investigators assessment that it formed a central part of the sales presentation. Im also 
satisfied its a document that Mr and Mrs C received  they signed it and Ive seen a copy of 
the email from P to Mr and Mrs C that the quote was attached to. I therefore think its 
relevant when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and 
Mrs Cs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement also sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Ill now consider whether Mr and Mrs C were told that the energy savings and income 
received from the FIT payments would mean the system would pay for itself. But before I 
do that, I want to address Mr and Mrs Cs assertion that everything they were told about the 
system was based on them having a battery which they decided not to buy because of the 
additional cost. From the evidence Ive seen I dont agree thats the case. The information 
completed by Ps salesperson to generate the solar quote included the following:So, I dont think the figures used in the solar quote assumed theyd have a battery.
The FIT payments
Mr and Mrs C have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered whether the solar quote 
supports what they say they were told.
Page eight of the solar quote set out the estimated income Mr and Mrs C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first 
shows the expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected 
average income over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT 
payments for 20 years and this is why 20 years was used in the quote.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr and Mrs C could expect to 
receive a total income in year one of £220.80 from their FIT payments.
Pages eight to nine of the quote go on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs C could 
expect from their system as well as any savings they would make from taking any optional 
extras including a voltage optimiser. The expected year one electricity savings was £393.64 
and the combined income and savings in year one was shown as £830.44. This is shown in 
a table titled Putting it all together.
The following page (page 10) has a section titled Repayments. This has three tables set out 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. The table for 120 months is highlighted in 
orange as this is the length of the loan term that Mr and Mrs C entered into with Shawbrook. 
This table sets out that there would be 120 monthly payments of £118.91 due and compares 
the overall expected grand total returns from the system, averaged over a monthly basis, 
versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs C could expect to receive from the 
system as well as their expected contractual monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that 
the table doesnt simply compare their FIT income to their monthly loan repayments, it does 
clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to receive by way of FIT income and 
any savings, would not be sufficient to cover their monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im 
not satisfied that they were told that their monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income alone. Indeed, Mr C has indicated that he knew this. In his complaint he wrote:
Following the installation of both the solar panels and ASHP, my wife and I opened 
up a specific bank account for RHI/MMSP & FIT to be paid into, and for the direct 
debit of the finance to come out of. We were aware that we would have to top up 
this account to cover the out goings.
Were Mr and Mrs C told that the system would pay for itself?
I think the credit agreement made it clear that although the cost price of the solar system 
was £9,943, the total cost to Mr and Mrs C including the finance would be £14,360.80. The 
question is whether they were told the systems benefits would cover that amount.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr and Mrs C were expected to have 
made a loss of £49.71 a month and that theyd continue to make a loss, albeit a reducing 
one, for at least 10 years. Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be 
self-funding from the start. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between 
their expected income and monthly loan repayments.
However, I do think Mr and Mrs C were likely told that the system would pay for itself over 
time. Page 12 of the solar quote has a table headed Estimated performance over 25 years:
This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs C could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under their loan agreement. This table also 
sets out the panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made them aware that 
performance of the system would deteriorate over its lifetime.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs C that the system would pay for 
itself by year 13, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation. So, Ive gone on to 
consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract between 
P and Mr and Mrs C.
The performance of the system and the assumptions used by P
Mr and Mrs C say they were told that the system would generate 3,300 kWh per annum, but 
it hasnt generated in line with expectations. The solar quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,370.96 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by 
way of FIT payments and savings in their energy bills, that Mr and Mrs C could expect to 
receive.
When the solar system was inspected in August 2021 the meter reading was 9,374.25 kWh. 
So, over the three years since installation the system had generated 3,124.75 kWh per 
annum. Whilst this is slightly lower than the estimated generation provided in the quote, I 
think its within a reasonable margin. So, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line 
with the quote. Based on this, I would expect the system to be on track to cover its cost by 
2031 (13 years after installation).
Mr and Mrs C believe the system wont pay for itself based on the FIT payments and energy 
savings theyve seen to date. Theyve told us their electricity costs have gone up and that 
they received only small FIT payments totalling £156.25 in the first year. So, Ive gone on to 
consider whether P overstated the potential income and savings Mr and Mrs C could expect 
to receive by, for example, using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote P provided to Mr and Mrs C was personalised to their specific circumstances and 
used a number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits they could 
expect to receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included: the expected 
annual generation in kWh from the system; the amount of energy generated by the system 
that Mr and Mrs C would use rather than buying it from their energy provider, therefore 
leading to savings on their energy bills; and the expected increase in utility prices alongside 
the expected annual increase in RPI inflation. The expected increases in utility prices and 
RPI were based on the Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 to 2015.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, that the FIT payments Mr and Mrs C have 
received are in line with what was expected. However, I do note that Mr and Mrs C stopped 
providing meter readings to their FIT provider and so have not been receiving the FIT 
payments that they otherwise would have. Theyve said they stopped providing meter 
readings because it didnt seem worth it  as it wasn't quite meeting our expectations. 
While I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C were frustrated that the system wasnt paying for itself 
from the start, their decision not to provide meter readings and therefore not receive FIT 
payments will impact the likelihood that the system will pay for itself by year 13. But thats 
not something I can hold Shawbrook (or P) responsible for.
The quote sets out that Mr and Mrs C were expected to use, or self-consume, 75% of the 
kWh generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual 
saving of £393.64. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the ONS 
data Ive mentioned above.
Shawbrook have provided detailed information about Ps sale process in relation to 
calculating the amount of energy a consumer would self-consume from the system. They 
explained that they would ask a consumer what their current electricity consumption and cost was, and then use this information to estimate the potential savings.
I think Ps method for calculating the self-consumption rate is reasonable and personalised 
to Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances, based on the information they provided at the time of the 
sale. I dont think its unreasonable for P to ask their consumer what their current electricity 
spend is and then rely on this information to calculate the electricity savings the system 
would generate.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy that Mr and Mrs C were expected to self-
consume were both reasonable assumptions for P to have made.
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Mr and Mrs C could expect to 
receive from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line 
with the available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases was 
6.80% and for RPI was 3.04%. The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based 
on the available information from the ONS from 2006 to 2015. Therefore, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for P to have used these assumptions to calculate the expected financial 
returns from the system.
If energy prices dont rise in the way P assumed (based on ONS data) until 2031 there is, of 
course, a risk that the system wont generate the same value of savings predicted at the 
point of sale. But if that happens, that doesnt make Ps statement that the system would pay 
for itself by year 13 an untrue statement of fact. Its also possible that Mr and Mrs C may not 
see the level of electricity savings predicted because theyve changed the way they occupy 
the property and use electricity since the time of the sale. But again, this wouldnt mean the 
systems benefits had been overstated or misrepresented by P at the point of sale.
Overall, Im unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs C were told that their loan repayments 
would be covered by the FIT income and predicted energy savings from the start. I do think 
that Mr and Mrs C were told the system would pay for itself (including finance costs) by year 
13. However, Ive seen nothing to suggest that statement was based on unreasonable 
assumptions or an untrue statement of fact.
Was the ASHP misrepresented?
Mr and Mrs C have said that they were told that the ASHP would pay for itself but that it 
ended up increasing their energy costs. Ive had sight of the ASHP quote that was sent to 
Mr and Mrs C. This document included the following table on page 10 setting out the 
expected costs and benefits:I think this table is clear that Mr and Mrs C could expect the benefits of the system by way of 
energy savings and RHI payments to cover the cost price of the ASHP over a period of 
seven years. But I dont think this document supports Mr and Mrs Cs claim that they were 
told the ASHP would pay for itself if they bought it on finance. The total seven year benefit is 
clearly stated as £15,384.33, and I think Mr and Mrs C were given sufficient information, in 
the form of a credit agreement, that showed if they used a loan to purchase the ASHP, it 
would cost them £20,312.64  so, more than the total benefits they could expect. In short, I 
dont think they were told the ASHP would pay for itself in their circumstances.
As I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs C were told the benefits would pay for the cost 
price of the ASHP (£14,995.00) Ive gone on to look at whether thats likely to happen and, if 
not, whether the statement that the benefits would total more than that over seven years was 
an untrue statement of fact.
The ASHP quote gave Mr and Mrs C reason to believe that theyd receive £12,476.30 in RHI 
and MMSP payments over seven years. Ive seen evidence that for the first year, up to 
September 2019, Mr and Mrs C received RHI and MMSP payments totalling £2,383.01. 
Based on this I have no reason to think that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have achieved close to 
the estimated benefit in RHI and MMSP. The reason they havent done so isnt because of 
any misrepresentation or error in estimation at the point of sale. The reason theyve received 
no RHI since September 2019 is because they didnt meet their ongoing obligation to 
complete an annual declaration. And because of this their ASHP is no longer accredited to 
the scheme.
Turning to the savings Mr and Mrs C could expect from the ASHP, the ASHP quote 
estimated that Mr and Mrs C would save £415.43 per year in energy costs. Given what 
Mr and Mrs C have said about what they paid for oil prior to August 2018 and what Ive seen 
from their electricity bills, I think prior to having the ASHP installed they were paying £2,736 
on oil (£228 x12) and £1,982.64 for electricity  a total of £4,718.64 per year.
After the installation of the ASHP they were no longer paying for oil, and from what Ive seen 
of their electricity bills, I would have expected them to pay around £3,152 to £3,630 per year 
for electricity after the ASHP was installed. Ive worked this out in a similar way to how our 
investigator did.
Electricity costs before the ASHP was installed
The only electricity bill Mr and Mrs C have supplied us with from before the installation of the 
ASHP is based on the energy suppliers estimates, not actual readings. This shows that they 
used 12,049 kWh over the 385 days between 11 August 2017 and 30 August 2018. This 
cost £2,091.28. Over a 365-day period this would work out as £1,982.64.
Electricity costs after the ASHP was installed
From the electricity bills Ive seen, Mr and Mrs C used 45,183 kWh of electricity over the 908 
days between 22 June 2019 and 15 December 2021  these bills used actual meter 
readings rather than estimates. Over a 365-day period this would work out as 18,163 kWh. 
Between these dates the average unit price (according to the bills Ive been supplied with) 
was 18.52p and the average standing charge was 25.68p. So, I think an annual electricity bill 
after the ASHP would have been approximately:
18,163 kWh x 18.52p = £3,363.78
365 x 25.68p = £93.73
VAT @ 5% on £3,457.51 = £172.88
Total: £3,630.39
Another way of reaching an approximation of Mr and Mrs Cs annual electric costs following 
the installation of the ASHP would be to look at it this way  the kWh used per year after 
installation was around 59% higher than before. So, their annual bill would have been about 
59% higher than before - £3,152.40.
Based on these calculations I think Mr and Mrs Cs overall fuel costs will have reduced by 
more than the £415.43 a year that P estimated after the ASHP was installed. So, I dont think 
theres anything to say the benefits of the ASHP were misrepresented to Mr and Mrs C.
Was the AHSP unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Cs home?
Mr and Mrs C are adamant that the ASHP should never have been sold to them as its not 
suitable for their type of property. Although Mr C has made it clear he feels very strongly 
about this point, I havent been presented with any expert evidence that the ASHP is 
unsuitable for the property. Ive also not seen anything to suggest its not working as it 
should. I note an inspection of the ASHP was carried out in September 2021 and this 
identified only maintenance issues.
I also note that the EPC produced just prior to installation was completed by a qualified and 
accredited Energy Assessor. Mr and Mrs C allege that P influenced the EPC rating of their 
home so that theyd qualify for the ASHP when they shouldnt have. But commenting on the 
accuracy of a professional Energy Assessors findings is not something that it would be 
appropriate for me to do. As the Government Find an energy certificate website explains, if 
someone is unhappy about a propertys energy assessment or certificate, they can complain 
to the assessor directly or the assessors accreditation scheme. I think that would be a more 
appropriate route for Mr and Mrs C to pursue their concerns about the EPC assessment.
What I can say is that I dont think P had any reason to influence or artificially inflate the EPC 
rating up to a D. Ofgems Factsheet: An introduction to the Domestic RHI from May 2018 
said that to be eligible for the scheme the property must have an EPC less than 24 months 
old, and that if the EPC recommended loft and cavity wall insulation this must be installed 
(unless a valid insulation exemption applied). It didnt specify a particular rating that had to 
be achieved. Indeed, I note that the current version of Ofgems Essential Guide to RHI says: The energy efficiency rating on your EPC does not affect your eligibility to the 
Domestic RHI. So, I think its unlikely the energy efficiency rating alone would have 
determined their eligibility for the scheme.
Was the lending irresponsible?
Mr and Mrs C have said that Shawbrook shouldnt have lent them the money to purchase 
the solar panel system and ASHP because they were already financially overstretched and 
had recently been declined for a bank loan.
Our investigator upheld this aspect of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and provided a detailed 
analysis of the relevant figures in her view. As both parties are already aware of those 
figures, I shant rehearse all the detail of Mr and Mrs Cs financial position here, but I have 
reviewed the investigators calculations and agree with her findings.
When lending to Mr and Mrs C, Shawbrook were required to carry out an assessment of 
their creditworthiness considering the impact on their financial situation and their ability to 
make repayments over the life of the credit agreement. The creditworthiness assessment 
needed to be based on sufficient information obtained from the customer and, where 
necessary, a credit reference agency. The assessment needed to be proportionate to such 
factors as the type, amount and cost of the credit and the customers credit history.
Shawbrook have shown us the credit checks they undertook. Theyve told us Mr and Mrs C 
declared a joint net income of £4,063 per month with expenditure of £2,545 per month, 
leaving a disposable income of £1,518 per month. They also said their credit checks 
revealed no affordability issues. Based on this and acknowledging that the new lending 
would bring Mr and Mrs Cs (secured and unsecured) debt to income ratio up to 98%, 
Shawbrook approved their applications.
However, Shawbrook didnt undertake any checks to verify Mr and Mrs Cs income and from 
the evidence Ive seen, if they had done, theyd have seen that it was closer to £3,900 per 
month.
I also dont think Shawbrook sufficiently took into account Mr and Mrs Cs existing debt 
obligations when calculating their expenditure. I dont think calculating their expenditure 
assuming credit card debt payments at 5% minimum accurately reflected their monthly 
outgoings. I think a more reasonable approach, as our investigator set out, would have been 
to assume Mr and Mrs C might have to repay the maximum amount of credit available to 
them (their total credit limit) within a time fame typical to that which would apply to a fixed-
sum unsecured personal loan for an amount equal to the credit limit.
The credit check Shawbrook did showed that Mr and Mrs C had:
credit card debt totaling £12,942 (with a total credit limit of £20,950)
a current account credit facility of £500
unsecured loans nearing £10,000
secured loans totaling around £235,000
Taking all these repayment obligations into account, I think their monthly expenditure should 
have been calculated as closer to £3,400 per month. With the new lending this would have 
risen to more than £3,700 per month  leaving them with a joint disposable income of around 
£200 per month.I dont think leaving Mr and Mrs C with such a small amount of disposable income was 
reasonable in the circumstances. £200 would not be sufficient to meet unforeseen 
expenditure without having to borrow more. Overall, I think Shawbrook acted irresponsibly 
by increasing Mr and Mrs Cs indebtedness and they shouldnt have approved these 
applications.
Shawbrook havent agreed that their decision to lend to Mr and Mrs C was irresponsible in 
the circumstances. However, they have agreed to settle this complaint and remediate the 
loan accounts as Ive set out below. For all the reasons Ive explained, I think thats a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
currently satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced 
Mr and Mrs C to enter into the contracts for the solar panel system or the ASHP. However, 
Im upholding this complaint because I find that Shawbrook lent to them irresponsibly.
Putting things right
Our role is to consider whether financial businesses, in this case Shawbrook, have acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of a complaint. Where they havent, we consider 
the consequences of what theyve done and try to put the complainant back in the position 
they would otherwise have been in.
However, in this case I cant ask Shawbrook to remove the system and ASHP and cancel 
Mr and Mrs Cs loans as if theyd never had them, because the system and ASHP are 
already installed at the property. From the evidence Ive seen, theyre working and capable 
of providing the expected benefits. And Mr and Mrs C have let us know that the property has 
been or is in the process of being sold. It simply isnt possible to put Mr and Mrs C back in 
the position they would have been in if the loans hadnt been approved.
So, bearing in mind that Mr and Mrs C received the goods they paid for with the loans, 
goods that might well have added value to their property, I think its fair that they are liable 
for no more than the principal sums advanced. In that way, they wont pay interest or 
charges on the loans. And will just pay for the assets that they own (or owned until they sold 
the property). I think thats fair compensation.
So, I think Shawbrook should:
1. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr and Mrs C have paid to date, or have 
otherwise accrued, on both loans.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce the outstanding capital balance by the amount 
calculated at Step 1 for any sums that theyve paid.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, ensure that it isnt 
subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges  i.e. just the principal 
amounts of the loans will remain payable. But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, 
the amount in question should be given back to Mr and Mrs C and 8% simple interest 
a year* should be added to the surplus from the date the payments were made until 
when theyre refunded.
4. Arrange for the removal of any adverse information recorded on Mr and Mrs Cs 
credit files with any credit reference agencies to which they have reported as a result of the non-payment of the principal, interest and charges to date.
5. Enter into discussions with Mr and Mrs C about an affordable repayment plan for any 
outstanding principal amounts of the loans that are still due, treating them positively 
and sympathetically in light of their current financial situation.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Shawbrook deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr and Mrs C request it, Shawbrook should give them a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken off so that they may reclaim it if appropriate.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part. Shawbrook Bank Limited 
should take the actions Ive set out in the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman