Complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank plc lost all his savings and couldnt provide him with the 
correct information about the balances in his accounts. He also complains about the service 
he received from HSBC UK Bank plc
Background
Mr F had a current account and a Flexi savings account with HSBC. He also had two 
investment accounts and an uninvested cash account in HSBCs Global Investment Centre 
(GIC). 
Mr F says he contacted HSBC on 15 December 2018 to enquire about becoming a Premier 
customer but during the call he was told that he had less than £50 with GIC. He says he was 
very distressed and alarmed to hear this since he had substantial savings with GIC. He was 
worried that HSBC had lost his savings or his account had been breached.
Mr F says he tried to phone HSBC shortly after this but he failed HSBCs voice recognition 
security process. So, he had to attend a branch. He asked the branch to unlock his account 
and deactivate the voice recognition. He says the branch manager wasnt able to tell him 
what the balances on his accounts were. And, when the branch manager phoned him later, 
he didnt give him correct information about the GIC accounts. He also says the branch 
manager didnt verify his identity before speaking to him.
Mr F says he intended to invest the money in his savings account with GIC. But, because of 
what happened, he wasnt able to do that. He says hes lost out as a result. He told HSBC 
this in December 2018. He says he was given assurances he would be compensated for any 
money he wouldve made had he invested it at the time.
Mr F also raised a number of complaints about the service he received. He says HSBC 
delayed actioning his request to deactivate voice recognition; didnt deal with his requests for 
call recordings correctly; and incorrectly split his complaint into two parts.
He complained to HSBC about these matters. 
HSBC investigated his complaint. It said the reason why hed been given the incorrect GIC 
balances was because of a system issue. As a result, its telephone and branch banking 
teams couldnt access GIC account information. It apologised that Mr F had been 
inconvenienced when the voice recognition hadnt worked. It apologised that the branch 
manager hadnt confirmed Mr Fs identity before speaking to him and had only provided him 
with some of the information hed requested.
DRN-1586593HSBC offered to pay Mr F £300 by way of compensation for whatd happened. It told him it 
had now deactivated the voice recognition from his account. It apologised for the delay in 
actioning this request. GIC also wrote to Mr F about his complaint. But it didnt offer any 
additional compensation.
Mr F was dissatisfied with this response. So he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it. She didnt uphold the complaint. She thought HSBC had 
apologised for what had gone wrong and had offered £300 by way of compensation. She 
said our role wasnt to punish it. She didnt agree that HSBC had agreed to compensate Mr 
F for potential losses on investments that hadnt been made. In these circumstances she 
thought HSBC had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr F didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id just make clear this decision wont be dealing with the complaint Mr F 
makes about how HSBC has dealt with his requests for call recordings. That issue will need 
to be dealt with separately.
Mr F has raised a number of issues and Ill deal with each in turn:
The balances in the GIC accounts
Mr F contacted HSBC on 15 December 2018. It is the case that during this call he was given 
the correct balances on his current account and Flexi saver account. But, he was also told 
that the balance on his GIC accounts was less than £50. This was incorrect information. He 
had substantial sums invested in his GIC accounts. So, I can understand why he was 
alarmed and concerned when he received this information. 
During the call Mr F asked to speak to a manager. Ive listened carefully to this call. Mr F told 
the manager that HSBC had lost all his money. But, the manager explained to Mr F that she 
hadnt said HSBC had lost his money. She said she didnt have full access to the GIC 
system. She repeated this at another point in the call when she said she couldnt view the 
information on GIC systems.
She told Mr F she would look into it as soon as GIC opened the following Monday and she 
would contact him then. And, I can see that HSBC did try to contact Mr F the following 
Monday but he wasnt available to take the calls.
So, whilst I can understand why Mr F was worried about what hed been told, I think HSBC 
had tried to explain that the money wasnt lost and that the GIC system wasnt accessible to 
the team hed contacted.
Ive also thought about the length of time it took before Mr F was given the correct 
information about his GIC balances. He says he had to visit a branch, after failing the voice 
recognition when he tried to phone. But, the manager wasn't able to give him the balances 
on the accounts. When the manager phoned him later he only provided the balance on one 
of his GIC accounts. And, Mr F says the information was incorrect. 
There is a further phone call on 18 December 2018. Mr F was again only given the balance 
on one of his GIC accounts. He said this balance was incorrect. HSBC did tell him that the GIC information wasnt accessible and he would need to speak to the GIC team. He was 
also given an assurance that any money he had with HSBC would all be returned to him 
together with any interest accrued. But, HSBC didnt remind him of the other ways he could 
use to immediately access the information about his GIC account balances.
Mr F was given the correct information about his GIC balances in February 2019. But, it is 
the case that the correct information about the GIC accounts had been available to him 
online. I can see that quarterly statements for the GIC accounts (including statements dated 
1 January 2019) were made available online. And, Ive noted during the call on 18 December 
2018 Mr F referred to looking online to check his balances. So, I think he knew he could view 
the correct information online.
Whilst I know Mr F was alarmed about what hed been told on 15 December 2018, Im 
satisfied, on balance, HSBC had explained to him that his money wasnt lost. And, although I 
agree that HSBC couldve done more to make sure he was given the correct information 
sooner, I think he knew he could contact GIC directly or check his GIC balances online. 
Loss of potential returns on investment
Mr F has referred to the telephone call with HSBC on 18 December 2018. He told HSBC his 
intention had been to invest all the money in his Flexi saver account with GIC but he couldnt 
do that until his concerns about the balances in his GIC accounts had been resolved. He 
says that during the call he was assured hed be compensated for any loss he suffered as a 
result of not being able to proceed with the investment.
Ive listened to the call. Ive noted HSBC told Mr F that if he felt hed lost out on any 
investment that would be looked into as part of the investigation. HSBC assured him this 
would be added to his complaint and it would be agreed together with him how the matter 
could be resolved. Thats what Id expect HSBC to do. But, I dont think that by agreeing to 
add something to the complaint HSBC was providing an assurance that the complaint would 
be upheld or that compensation would be paid.
HSBC hasnt upheld this part of Mr Fs complaint. It says there was nothing to stop him 
investing the money that was in the Flexi saver account. It says there was never any doubt 
about the balance in this account. 
Mr F says he wanted to invest in certain stocks and shares. But HSBC says that wouldnt 
have been possible since his account with GIC wouldnt have permitted this type of 
investment. It also says that if he was concerned about placing his money with GIC he 
couldve invested it through other providers.
Having considered this I can understand why Mr F was reluctant to invest further funds with 
GIC. But, in these circumstances, he was free to take the funds from his Flexi saver account 
and invest them elsewhere. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require HSBC 
to compensate him for potential losses arising from his decision not to invest the funds at all.
Service issues
Mr F has raised several service issues. And, HSBC has accepted it did get some service 
issues wrong. It has apologised for not deactivating the voice recognition and has confirmed 
that this action has now been taken.  It has also apologised for the branch manager not 
verifying Mr Fs identity during a phone call.
Mr F has also complained that HSBC split his complaint into two parts. But, its not for this 
service to tell HSBC what procedures or processes it should put in place as a business. Nor can this service look into his concerns around this here, where those concerns specifically 
relate to a complaints process, which is not a regulated financial activity. 
So, having considered everything here Im satisfied that HSBC has apologised for what went 
wrong and its offered to pay Mr F £300 by way of compensation. I think thats fair and 
reasonable and I dont require it to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Irene Martin
Ombudsman