DRN-3424828
The complaint
Mr W complains UK Insurance Limited (t/a Green Flag) caused further damage to his car 
after he made a claim on his roadside assistance policy. 
What happened
Mr W has breakdown cover for his vehicle with Green Flag. The policy is to provide roadside 
assistance, recovery, and the cost of repairing breakdowns. 
Mr W contacted Green Flag on 26 November 2021 to request assistance with a flat tyre. He 
says Green Flag told him it would send someone who could recover his car since Mr W was 
on a motorway.  Mr W says when the recovery truck arrived it was too small to tow his car. 
Mr W says he told the recovery agent the suspension warning light had come on but the 
agent told him this was normal while the vehicle was lifted. The agent attempted to replace 
the tyre but wasnt able to. And so Mr W and the agent drove to the next junction which was 
a couple of miles away. A larger recovery vehicle then took Mr W home.  
A few days later Mr W called Green Flag regarding the warning light since he felt the 
problem was caused by the recovery agent who initially attended the call out. Green Flag 
told him to obtain a diagnostic test on his car and it would consider the matter further. Mr W 
did this and says the fault didnt show due to the particular software the garage used. Mr W 
went to a different garage and this time the error was showing. 
Green Flag told Mr W to find a garage which could run a proper diagnostic and confirm an 
estimate for the cost of repair. An assessment was carried out and it was found a 
suspension compressor part was required. The estimate was £2,800 plus VAT for the part 
and labour. The estimate was sent to Green Flag who said it would discuss the work with its 
own technicians. Green Flag said it didnt agree its agent caused the damage to Mr Ws car.
During this time Mr W was unable to work as he required a car to do his job. Mr W says by 
this point almost a month had passed and he was concerned he would lose his job. And so 
Mr W complained to Green Flag.
Green Flag didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said Mr W reported the suspension warning 
light being on when trying to recover the car. It said Mr W had asked for it to be noted. On 2 
December 2021 Mr W told Green Flag the suspension on his car had collapsed and he 
believed it happened due to the wheel change attempt on the day of the puncture. It said it 
didnt find any evidence to suggest the suspension failure was linked to the attempted repair 
of the tyre and wouldnt pay the costs of repairing the car. 
Mr W wasnt happy with the response from Green Flag. He said he has evidence which 
proves the suspension warning light wasnt on before the attempted repair, and he sent this 
to Green Flag. And so he referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. He didnt uphold the complaint. He said the 
steps taken by Green Flag in investigating the damage were reasonable. And because it had 
relied on the advice provided by its technical team the investigator didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr W wasnt happy. He said his car had been inspected by a garage who also carried out 
electronic diagnostic testing on the car but Green Flag didnt accept this evidence. And so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Mr Ws car has still not been repaired. He says he cant travel to work and has only 
managed to work when he is able to borrow a car which is around seven days in two 
months. Mr W says he has been using his savings to support his family. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. Ive focused my comments on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont think it affects 
the outcome. 
I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
been upsetting for Mr W to have issues with his car. And I understand why he feels unfairly 
treated by Green Flag. He feels it should ensure the repairs to his suspension be undertaken 
at no expense to himself. But for me to say Green Flag should cover the cost of the work I 
need to be satisfied that there is a link between the repair carried out by the recovery agent 
and the failure of Mr Ws suspension. And in this situation I dont think thats the case. 
Damage to suspension 
Mr W says the suspension was damaged whilst the recovery agent was attempting to 
change the wheel on his car at the roadside. But I havent seen any evidence, such as a 
report from an independent garage, to confirm it was this incident which caused the damage. 
Mr W says he was instructed to drive his car with a flat tyre a considerable distance to the 
nearest service station. Mr W says the fault occurred because of this since the suspension 
was trying to compensate for the flat tyre. 
Mr W took some pictures of the recovery truck and his dashboard from the night of the 
breakdown. He says these prove the recovery agent caused the damage to his car. But 
these photographs only show warning lights being on, they dont show the cause of the 
suspension failure. 
Green Flag sent the report obtained by Mr W to their own experts for review. Green Flags 
technician said the parts and labour costs were inflated and the report didnt prove the 
damage was caused by the attempted repair. And so Green Flag asked Mr W to provide it 
with contact details for the garage who prepared the report. I cant see Mr W provided that 
information. 
The report from the garage does note the issues with the suspension and includes reference 
to the attempted repair. But its just a possibility. Further detail from suitably qualified people 
would need to give more information to show whether its more likely than not the cause of 
the damage claimed. 
There is no reasoning in Mr Ws documentation to justify why or how the failed suspension 
could be related to an attempt to inflate his tyre. Mr W told this service he was obtaining a report from the manufacturers garage but to date 
this hasnt been received. In the absence of any conclusive evidence to prove the link 
between the attempted repair and the damage to the suspension I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Green Flag to deny liability for the damage and not to pay for the repair. 
I havent seen any evidence to support Mr Ws belief that the suspension failure is due to the 
recovery agents actions. 
Green Flag have relied on its own technicians opinion in declining Mr Ws claim for damage 
to the suspension. Green Flag have advised Mr W it would look at his claim again if he 
provided further evidence confirming the fault was caused by the recovery agent. So I think 
Green Flag have acted fairly and reasonably in rejecting Mr Ws claim for damage to his 
suspension. 
Mr W uses his car for his work. And he says whilst the car hasnt been repaired he has been 
unable to work and so has struggled to support himself and his family. I am sorry to hear this 
has been the case.  Since I dont think Green Flag has acted unfairly I dont find it 
responsible for Mr Ws loss of income whilst his car has been off the road. 
Green Flag cover is to assist when there are issues with the car at the roadside. And so 
when Mr W contacted Green Flag it sent a recovery vehicle and where it wasnt able to carry 
out the repair, it took Mr W and his vehicle back home. So it has done what I would have 
expected it to do. 
Having thought about this carefully Im not persuaded that Mr W has demonstrated that its 
more likely than not his car was damaged by the recovery agent.  And thinking more widely 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances I dont think it would be fair to 
compel Green Flag to pay for the repair on Mr Ws car. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman