DRN-2006365
The complaint
Mr W complains about how TSB Bank Plc dealt with his request to withdraw funds from his 
current account. Hes also unhappy his account was closed afterwards.
What happened
On 18 October 2019 Mr W attended his local TSB branch to withdraw £5000 in cash from his 
current account, which he wanted to pay into a savings account he holds elsewhere. TSB 
asked Mr W to provide ID, which he said he did. But TSB said it was unable to facilitate Mr 
Ws withdrawal request because it didnt have access to that amount of cash in the branch 
that day. 
As TSB was unable to act on Mr Ws request it offered to transfer £5000 electronically to his 
nominated savings account. But Mr W declined to do so as he wanted the cash. So, TSB 
asked him to return to the branch on 22 October 2019  by which time the cash withdrawal 
would be available for him to collect.
On 22 October 2019 Mr W returned to his local branch. He was expecting his visits to be 
brief and had been driven there by his niece who also had her young child present in the car. 
However, when Mr W arrived in branch he said he was questioned about the reason for his 
withdrawal request. He said he was then informed the attendance of the police had been 
requested. Lloyds stated this was due to its decision to invoke banking protocol.
Mr W was upset about the length of time he had to wait in branch and the fact that TSB had 
contacted the police. So, he went outside briefly. While he was outside the police arrived. Mr 
W said he raised his voice, due to having hearing difficulties, and was he was subsequently 
warned about arrest for a public order offence.
When Mr W accompanied the police inside the branch he said he was questioned further 
about the reasons for his withdrawal. He said this created a further delay in the time he 
spent in branch. Subsequent to this questioning, TSB decided to allow his cash withdrawal. 
But it also informed him it would be closing his bank account with immediate effect due to his 
behaviour in branch, which it deemed to be unacceptable.
Mr W was unhappy about his experience during this branch visit. He felt the way in which 
hed been treated by TSB was unfair. He said hed felt like a criminal and been caused 
embarrassment, distress and inconvenience. He also said this had all impacted on his niece, 
whod attended the branch with him on 22 October 2019, and his elderly mother, who was 
vulnerable and unwell and had been left at home alone during his branch visits. Overall, Mr 
W thought TSBs decision to close his account was unreasonable. So, he complained.
When TSB responded to Mr Ws complaint it confirmed that it had had to investigate his 
cash withdrawal request due to its duty to protect his account and funds from fraud and 
coercive control. It explained that, due to the behaviour Mr W had exhibited in branch, it was 
unable to continue to offer banking facilities to him and had decided to close his account. It 
further stated that it wasnt prepared to reinstate his account. Overall, TSB didnt feel it had 
made an error. It felt it had acted in Mr Ws best interests and it didnt uphold his complaint.Being dissatisfied with TSBs response to his complaint Mr W referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought TSB had acted fairly and reasonably. They didnt think 
it had made any errors. So they didnt recommend upholding Mr Ws complaint. But he 
disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr W and TSB that Ive read everything that theyve provided. 
So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr W and his family experienced here. I can 
understand that the police attending must have been particularly traumatic. And I can 
appreciate that Mr W was caused embarrassment, distress and inconvenience by what 
happened. But the issue here is whether I think TSB made a mistake, or treated Mr W 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about 
everything he and TSB have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
This complaint was prompted by TSBs inability to provide him with the cash he requested 
during his branch visit on 18 October 2019 so Ill focus on that issue first.
Based on the evidence Ive seen its clear TSB was unable to facilitate Mr Ws cash 
withdrawal request on 18 October due to limitations on how much cash was kept in branch. I 
dont think this was unreasonable and Im satisfied that offering to transfer the funds Mr W 
had requested electronically to his savings account was a fair alternative, which 
demonstrates TSB was attempting to assist him.
It appears that Mr Ws rejection of TSBs offer triggered concerns here and caused it to look 
more closely at the reasons behind the withdrawal hed asked it to make. It was high in value 
and, from reviewing statements of his account, I can see it was an out of character 
transaction. 
I appreciate Mr Ws cash withdrawal request was made of his own free will. But banks have 
a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from coercion and fraud. 
Customer protection is as important for the bank as it is for its customers. To do so a bank 
may question a customer about the reasons behind a cash withdrawal request as TSB did 
here. While these questions might have seemed intrusive to Mr W, I can understand why 
TSB had concerns and cause to be vigilant given the overall circumstances of this 
withdrawal request,. 
Ill turn now to Mr Ws complaint about the way in which he was treated when he re-attended 
his branch on 22 October 2019 in order to collect his cash.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, its clear TSB continued to have concerns about the 
reasons Mr W wanted to withdraw a large sum from his account. As Ive already outlined, I 
dont think these concerns were unreasonable. And I can understand why TSB felt it 
necessary to invoke banking protocol, which I believe was in efforts to protect both Mr W 
and the funds in his account from potential exploitation and financial loss. I can appreciate why Mr W might think it was necessary for TSB to invoke banking 
protocol. But its entitled to determine its own policy in relation to how it deals with 
customers it suspects may be vulnerable and/or at risk of coercive control.
As our investigators already explained our service cant comment on whether a business 
policy is right or tell it that its policy should be changed. Impartially though I think invoking 
banking protocol was a reasonable precaution for TSB to adopt in the prevailing 
circumstances. 
I recognise this all caused inconvenience and upset to Mr W  it resulted in him spending an 
extended period in branch while his reasons for his high value cash withdrawal request were 
explored in detail and this impacted on his niece and unwell mother. But I dont think TSB 
had an alternative given its concerns about the withdrawal Mr W had wanted it to make 
remained unresolved.
I can understand Mr Ws frustrations regarding his experiences here. But Im satisfied that 
the action TSB took here was motivated by a genuine desire to act in his best interests. Im 
also satisfied it approved Mr Ws withdrawal request as soon as its concerns had been 
allayed. Whilst I can accept Mr W was caused embarrassment and upset by what happened, 
Im not persuaded that TSB treated him unfairly. 
I appreciate Mr W is unhappy TSB took the decision to close his account and that he wasnt 
given notice about that. But the terms and conditions of his account entitle TSB to close a 
customers account with immediate effect in circumstances where it feels a customer is 
behaving improperly  such as in a threatening or abusive manner. 
Ive taken on board Mr Ws comments that he was raising his voice due to problems with his 
hearing. But the fact that the police warned him his conduct could amount to a public order 
offence satisfies me that TSBs perception of his behaviour wasnt unreasonable here. It 
follows that I cant fairly conclude it made an error in deciding to close his account. 
In his complaint form to our service Mr W said he wanted his account reinstating. But I cant 
ask TSB to offer him banking services  thats a commercial decision for it to take and our 
service wont interfere with its discretion on that.
I understand Mr W feels very strongly about the issues raised in his complaint. But for the 
reasons already outlined I think TSB has dealt with this complaint fairly and done all it can to 
resolve this dispute. Im not persuaded it made an error here. So, I wont be asking TSB to 
do any more.
I realise Mr W will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with TSB informally, can do for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman