DRN-3126261
The complaint
Mr W says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W took out a 48-month instalment loan from ELL on 6 October 2020 for £5,100. The
monthly repayments were £272.85 and the total repayable was £13,096.80. He is now in 
arrears on the loan.
Mr W says he shouldnt have been given the loan. He was struggling financially and owed, 
and still owes, a lot of money.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint saying the lenders checks werent proportionate
and better checks would have showed the loan to be unaffordable. She said he seemed to 
have a number of informal debts and taking those repayments into account as well left him 
with only £52 disposable income each month. She noted Mr W was already paying a 
significant proportion of his income to manage his existing debt, often an indicator that a 
longer-term loan will not be sustainably affordable. 
ELL disagreed saying, in summary, there is no evidence that Mr Ws average monthly 
payments of £600 to family and friends were regular commitments. So the loan was 
affordable. 
As an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr W required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr W. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ws
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make a fair lending decision?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr W before it approved the loan. It asked 
for details of his income and rent. It estimated his living costs using national statistics, adding 
a buffer to cover unexpected costs. It also checked Mr Ws credit file to understand his 
existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. And finally it asked about the 
purpose of the loan which was to purchase a car and for debt consolidation. From these 
checks combined ELL concluded Mr W had monthly disposable income of £243.65 and so 
could afford to take on the loan.
I dont think these checks were proportionate given ELL needed to be sure Mr W would be 
able to repay his loan sustainably over a four-year period. I think it needed to complete a 
fuller financial review, verifying Mr Ws income and reviewing his actual monthly costs rather 
than relying on his declarations and national averages. ELL sent us copies of bank 
statements that its case notes refer to as having been used to verify his salary and 
outgoings. But the statements are for a savings account and do not show either Mr Ws 
salary or regular outgoings so I cannot see how it used them to inform its assessment. 
I have looked at Mr Ws bank statements from the three months prior to application for his 
main current account to understand what better checks might have shown ELL. As the 
adjudicator highlighted they show a high value of monthly payments that seem to be as a 
result of informal borrowing. ELL argues that there is no evidence these are regular 
commitments. But excepting one payment for £1,000 which I understand was payment 
towards a car, and I agree could therefore be excluded, such transactions appear in each of 
the months we have statements for. So I think had ELL carried out better checks it would 
have seen Mr W appeared to need to borrow from friends regularly, and so it could have 
investigated this. I dont think we need to reach a conclusion on what was the exact amount Mr W owed to 
friends, suffice to say better checks would have most likely shown Mr W had ongoing 
informal debts that would have reduced the amount of disposable income in ELLs 
assessment. And ELL concluded from its credit checks that Mr W would have ongoing credit 
commitments of £387.46 after the consolidation he planned to do. Giving this loan with its 
repayment of £272.85 meant he would be spending around 40% of his monthly income to 
service his formal debt. 
I think this, combined with the uncertainty around Mr Ws informal debt, ought to have 
indicated to ELL that there was a risk Mr W would not be able to make his repayments for 
four years without suffering some kind of adverse financial consequence, such as needing to 
borrow to repay. ELL needed to consider this to meet its regulatory obligations, not just the 
pounds and pence affordability. Plus, there were other indicators that Mr W was most likely 
having problems managing his money such as using a buy-now-pay later product, unpaid 
direct debits and a recent payday loan. 
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give the loan to Mr W. I havent seen any evidence ELL 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mr W.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he 
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been provided to him.
So ELL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr W
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ws loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ws account results in there still be a capital balance outstanding ELL
must try to agree an affordable repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr W a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ws complaint. Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, 
must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman