DRN-1610897
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont pay her back all the premiums 
she paid for a card protection policy (CPP) that she held between 2002 and 2017.  
What happened
When Mrs P complained about her CPP, NatWest paid her back the premiums shed paid 
before January 2005. But it wouldnt pay back premiums after that. It said shed been invited 
to claim those payments back under a redress scheme that had now closed, and as she 
hadnt claimed at the time, it was too late now to do so.
Mrs P said she didnt get those documents, and she said that was NatWests fault. It hadnt 
passed on her updated address to the CPP provider. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that the scheme required the refund 
letter to be sent to the last address the CPP provider held for the customer. And in Mrs Ps 
case, this was her old address. She hadnt updated that address with the CPP provider, and 
our investigator said that the onus was on her to do that. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She said that shed sent some photos of her old CPP agreement which 
showed it was administered by NatWest, and the instructions were to inform NatWest if there 
was any change to her address. Shed done that. She thought it would be NatWests fault, 
not hers, if that information wasnt passed on.
Because Mrs P didnt agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is against NatWest, not against the CPP provider, the redress scheme or 
those who administered it. So Im looking here at what NatWest did, or didnt do.
As our investigator set out, the administrators of the scheme were required to post 
information on the scheme to the address held by the CPP provider. This was Mrs Ps old 
address, which by then was out of date. But Mrs P says that was NatWests fault, it 
shouldve sent her new address to the CPP provider. 
Mrs P sent us two excerpts from her CPP agreement. The first of those makes clear that this 
agreement is between Mrs P and the insurer. The insurer was the CPP provider, not 
NatWest. That also says You must provide us with full and accurate information in 
connection with your cover, including changes to your personal details. That suggests to me 
that Mrs P was supposed to update the CPP provider with her new address. The second excerpt says We may ask your card issuers for details of changes in your 
address  so that [the CPP provider] can be updated. That confirms that this agreement 
was made between Mrs P and the CPP provider, not with the card issuer, NatWest.
Nothing that Ive seen in this agreement places NatWest under any obligation to pass on 
updated contact details to the CPP provider. So I dont think that, on the evidence Ive seen, 
I can hold NatWest responsible for not sending updated contact information to Mrs Ps CPP 
provider. And that means I dont think its NatWests fault that Mrs P didnt receive 
information about this redress scheme while it was open.
I know Mrs P will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman