DRN-4257827
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) handling and 
settlement of a claim made under her car insurance policy.
What happened
A third-party vehicle hit Mrs Ps vehicle causing damage. So, Mrs P contacted Admiral, her 
car insurance provider.
Mrs Ps car was deemed a total loss. As the car was on a lease hire agreement, Admiral 
cleared the remaining agreement balance. They also paid Mrs P £516.19, which was a 
proportion of the deposit that shed paid the finance company at the outset of her agreement.
However, Mrs P was unhappy with the settlement she received. She said that as the market 
value of the vehicle was much more than the remaining lease hire payments, she should be 
given the difference, or at least the full amount she paid as a deposit. She was also unhappy 
with Admirals handling of the claim. So, Mrs P complained to Admiral.
Admirals claim settlement decision remained the same, as they said this was in line with the 
policy terms. However, they agreed the handling of the claim fell short, so they paid a total of 
£200 compensation.
As Mrs P remained unhappy, she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt uphold it. She thought 
Admiral had acted reasonably, so she didnt recommend they do anything further.
Mrs P didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral accepted their communication and claim handling fell short. This included not telling 
Mrs P that payment had been made to the finance company, the hire vehicle had been 
terminated at short notice and the excess had been deducted from the settlement. Admiral 
offered a total of £200 compensation. I think this is a reasonable amount for Admirals 
handling of things, so Im not going to direct them to increase the level of compensation.
Mrs P is also unhappy with how Admiral has settled her claim. The terms of Mrs Ps policy 
say:
If your vehicle is subject to a hire purchase agreement, we will pay any money owed 
to that company first and then pay any remaining money to you. If your vehicle is on 
lease or contract hire, we will pay the lease or contract hire company either the 
market value of the vehicle, or the amount required to settle the agreement, 
whichever is less.
Mrs P says she wasnt made aware that this is how claims for lease hire vehicles would be 
settled. However, this was in the terms and conditions provided when she took out her 
policy, and I think they were clear.
The terms explain that where the vehicle is on a contract hire or lease agreement, if the 
remaining agreement amount is less than the market value, thats all Admiral would pay. 
Thats relevant in this case as the remaining agreement amount was £23,024, and the 
market value was higher than this, so Admiral settled the claim in this way.
However, Mrs P says that as the market value was higher, Admiral should pay her the 
difference between the market value and the remaining agreement amount, or at least what 
she paid for the initial deposit. Instead, Admiral has paid £516.19, which is the unused 
deposit amount pro-rata for the remaining time the agreement was due to run, which is much 
lower than the initial payment Mrs P made to the lease hire company.
I agree with what our investigator said to Mrs P. I wouldnt expect Admiral to pay Mrs P the 
difference between the agreement remainder and the market value, as Mrs P had no equity 
in the car because it was under a lease hire agreement, so she wasnt the owner and 
wouldnt have been at the end of the agreement. As Mrs P had no equity in the vehicle, the 
only financial loss she has incurred is the unused portion of her deposit which was paid at 
the start of the agreement to cover the duration of the agreement period. But Admiral has 
paid Mrs P that unused proportion already. If they hadnt, thats what I would have been 
directing them to do. But as they have already done that, I think theyve acted fairly and 
reasonably, so Im not going to direct them to pay more than this.
Mrs P has said if she had the finances at the time to arrange a different type of finance 
agreement, rather than lease hire, shed have been in a better financial position now. This is 
because she says she would have received the difference as per the terms of her policy, so 
she says shes in a worse position because of the agreement she had and that isnt fair. 
However, the fact here is that Mrs P had a lease hire agreement, so she wasnt the owner of 
the vehicle, wasnt going to become the owner when the agreement ended and didnt have 
any equity in it, whereas other agreements would have operated differently to this. So, it 
wouldnt be fair to direct Admiral to pay Mrs P additional funds, based on how a claim would 
be settled for an agreement she didnt have.
Mrs P has also questioned why the third party isnt paying her the difference as she said 
they were responsible for the accident. My remit here is Admiral and Mrs P as their 
customer, I cant comment on the third party or their insurer as part of this complaint.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman