DRN-3438589
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC declined transactions he attempted on his debit card 
and wont give him a reason as to why.
What happened
Mr W attempted to make a purchase on his Lloyds debit card, but the transaction was 
declined. Mr W attempted the transaction again, but the transaction was declined by Lloyds 
again. Mr W contacted Lloyds about this, but he wasnt happy with the information he was 
given by Lloyds agents about the attempted transactions, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Ws complaint. They confirmed that they hadnt declined the 
transactions, which meant that the error had to have been somewhere else in the 
transactional chain. However, Lloyds did acknowledge that Mr W had received conflicting 
information from their agents when hed contacted them about the transactions, and so they 
apologised to Mr W for this and made a payment of £50 to him by way of compensation.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Lloyds response to Mr Ws 
complaint already represented a fair and reasonable response to what had happened, and 
so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied from the transactional audit trail information that Lloyds have 
presented to this service that they didnt decline the attempted transactions as Mr W 
believes. 
As such, it seems apparent that the problems Mr W experienced when trying to complete the 
transaction arose from issues at some other point of the transactional chain, for which Lloyds 
werent responsible. Consequently, I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ws complaint.
In their response to Mr Ws complaint, Lloyds acknowledged that when Mr W had first 
contacted them to ask why the attempted transactions werent completely successfully, he 
was given conflicting information by the Lloyds agents that attempted to answer his query. 
Lloyds have apologised to Mr W for this and made a payment of £50 compensation to him 
for any trouble or upset that he may have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But given the 
circumstances here, including that this payment of compensation was solely for the provision 
of conflicting information to Mr W, the £50 that Lloyds have already paid here does feel fair 
to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I might have instructed Lloyds to 
have paid, had they not already done so.
All of which means Im satisfied that the response that Lloyds have issued to Mr Ws 
complaint, including the confirmation that the transactions werent declined by them and the 
payment of £50 compensation, already represents a fair and reasonable response to this 
complaint.
I realise this might not be the outcome that Mr W was wating, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. I trust 
that Mr W will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman