DRN-2535822
The complaint
Mrs G complains that an online education programme for her children which was financed by 
3J Finance Limited (3J) wasnt suitable for purpose or of satisfactory quality, and the nature 
of the finance was misrepresented to her. She brings this complaint under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
In April 2018 Mrs G contacted a supplier of online education programmes which Ill call E, 
and arranged for its representative to visit her home and discuss online education 
programmes for her two children. At the conclusion of that visit, Mrs G signed up for the 
supply of two programmes which were to be financed over 4 years by 3J at a total cost of 
£3,590.
In July 2019, Mrs G contacted E and complained about the quality of the programmes, and 
their suitability for her children. E offered to contact her and assist with any issues she was 
having. However, Mrs G said she just wanted to terminate the arrangement with E.
E said the 14 day cancellation period for the programmes had expired more than a year ago. 
And as she had purchased the programmes with finance provided by 3J, she would have to 
speak to that company. She was unaware of 3Js involvement; but when she contacted 3J, it 
said she had entered into a loan agreement with it for the full cost of the programmes, 
repayable over 4 years, which couldnt now be cancelled. So she brought this complaint 
against 3J to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said that for Mrs G 
to bring a claim against 3J under Section 75, there had to be a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by E in respect of the programmes or their financing. 
Mrs G had complained to E in July 2019 about issues she was experiencing with the 
programmes. E asked Mrs G to contact it to see if it could help. But by this time Mrs G just 
wanted to cancel the programmes. The investigator said she didnt have enough evidence  
to say a breach of contract had occurred.
The investigator then considered if the loan had been misrepresented to Mrs G by E. She 
said Mrs G maintained she was unaware that the programmes were being financed by a 
loan. She thought she was paying a subscription which she could cancel at any point. She 
thought the 14 day withdrawal period was the period within which she could cancel without 
paying any fees.
The investigator said the satisfaction form that E arranged for Mrs G to sign referred to a 
Lifetime Licence rather than a fixed sum loan. So the investigator didnt think it was clear 
that a loan was being provided. She also accepted Mrs Gs testimony that she was looking 
for a flexible learning programme, and wouldnt have signed up to something expensive that 
she couldnt cancel.
On balance, the investigator didnt think the finance was correctly explained to Mrs G by Es 
representative. If it had been, the investigator didnt think it likely Mrs G would have entered 
into a four year contract, unless she was told she could cancel it. 
Overall, the investigator considered that the finance was misrepresented to Mrs G at point of 
sale. To put things right, she recommended that 3J:
1. cancelled the agreement from the first notice given by Mrs G on 23 July 2019;
2. refunded any payments made by Mrs G after 23 July 2019;
3. refunded the £100 deposit Mrs G had paid;
4. paid Mrs G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her; 
and
5. removed any negative information reported on Mrs Gs credit report after 23 July 
2019.
3J responded to say, in summary, that:
Mrs G had signed, and initialled every point on, the Customer Clarification & 
Satisfaction Form to confirm her understanding of the points on that form;
the loan agreement which Mrs G signed electronically carried the heading in bold 
type Fixed Sum Loan Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974;
because of the wording used in the loan agreement, such as Loan Agreement and  
the amount you have borrowed it thought it was clear that Mrs G would be paying 
the cost of the programme by finance or fixed sum loan;
Mrs G was left copies of  all the paperwork and had 14 days to reconsider her 
purchase, or ask questions, if she was unclear; but she did not;
there was a general legal principle that when someone had signed a document, they 
were taken to have read and understood it; 3J didnt think the documents Mrs G 
signed here were unclear; and
Es representative also confirmed in writing that he had made everything clear to   
Mrs G at the time she signed the documents.
The investigator said the use of the generic term finance, and Lifetime Licence in the 
documentation, rather than specifically, fixed sum loan, made things unclear, so that 
Mrs G thought she was entering into a subscription, not a loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that the way the 
programmes performed amounted to a breach of contract by E. So if I am to conclude that 
Mrs G should be allowed to succeed in this complaint against 3J, I need to be satisfied that 
E, or its representative, misrepresented the programmes or the arrangements financing 
them, so that it is fair that 3J should provide Mrs G with a remedy. 
Mrs G has been consistent in her correspondence and discussions with us that she believed 
she hadnt received a loan to pay for the programmes. She says she thought she had 
entered into a subscription arrangement that she could terminate. So I have looked at the 
documents Mrs G signed at the time to see if this belief was reasonable.
I dont think the wording of the Customer Clarification and Satisfaction Form is clear. It refers 
to a Lifetime Licence and uses the generic term Finance instead of loan. I think it is 
understandable that a lay person reading the form wouldnt understand that they were entering into a fixed term loan commitment.
I accept that the loan agreement itself does contain the statutory wording for a fixed sum 
loan agreement, and other wording for a loan. But this was signed by Mrs G electronically 
and it isnt possible to know at this stage what the circumstances of the signing were. So I 
dont think this is sufficient to remove the lack of clarity left by the wording of the Satisfaction 
Form.
Es representative was present at the time and has signed a finance compliance document 
to say the fixed sum loan agreement was fully explained to Mrs G. However, she is adamant 
that whatever was said, she was left not realising that she had entered into a fixed term loan 
agreement that she wouldnt be able to cancel after the initial 14 day cooling off period.
In this connection I note that Mrs Gs email to E dated 30 July 2019 was headed Stop my 
subscription now, which seems to support what she says she believed. So all in all,I 
conclude that the finance compliance document is incorrect when it says Mrs G received an 
adequate explanation of the Fixed Sum Loan Agreement. I think whatever explanation was 
given of it amounted to a misrepresentation of the nature and effect of this document.
Under section 75, 3J is equally responsible with E for any misrepresentation made in the 
course of the sale of the programmes. So I think its fair and reasonable that 3J should 
provide a remedy for Mrs G as the investigator recommended, and as I have set out more 
fully below.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think 3J should take the steps, and pay the money, as set out in my final 
decision below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order 3J Finance Limited to:
1. cancel the loan agreement, without further cost to Mrs G, with effect from the first 
notice given by Mrs G to E on 23 July 2019, and with Mrs G ceasing to be entitled to 
access the programmes with effect from that date;
2. refund any payments made by Mrs G under the loan agreement in respect of the 
period  after 23 July 2019;
3. refund the £100 deposit Mrs G paid under the loan agreement;
4. pay Mrs G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her; 
and
5. remove any negative information reported in respect of the loan on Mrs Gs credit 
report after 23 July 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 Lennox Towers
Ombudsman