DRN-2450163
The complaint
Miss G complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) plc failed to act on instructions from the 
appointee named in a Short Procedure Order issued by the Office of Care and Protection.
Miss G is represented by Mrs M.
What happened
Miss G says that a Short Procedure Order (the Order) was made in relation to her account in 
2010. She says that under the terms of the Order her mother (Mrs G) and her sister (Mrs M) 
were appointed jointly and severally to operate the account she held with Bank of Ireland. 
She says that a copy of the Order was provided by hand to Bank of Ireland in 2010.
Miss G says that since 12 March 2018 further copies of the Order have been provided to 
Bank of Ireland by recorded delivery and by email. Despite this, she says Bank of Ireland 
has failed to note the terms of the Order on its systems. She says this means that 
sometimes it complies with instructions from the appointee and sometimes it does not.
Miss G says her appointee wrote to Bank of Ireland on 17 October 2018 and asked it to 
cancel a standing order due to be paid on 29 October 2018. She says it failed to do this until 
after the payment date. This meant that a payment of £55 was made in error. She says that 
a further instruction sent on 22 November 2018 to cancel a standing order from 3 December 
2018 wasnt actioned until January 2019. She says this resulted in five payments each for 
£124 being paid from the account when they shouldnt have been. 
Miss G complained to Bank of Ireland. It investigated her complaint. It said it had no record 
of having received the Order. It said it did hold a mandate appointing Miss Gs mother, Mrs 
G. That mandate had been in place since 2005. It said it needed an original copy of the 
Order before it could act on instructions from Mrs M. It offered to pay the costs of posting the 
Order to it (£25) and also offered to pay Miss G a further £50 because of the delays shed 
experienced. 
Bank of Ireland issued its final response to Miss G on 12 March 2019. Miss G says her 
appointee posted the Order to it by registered delivery on 27 March 2019 but she says it still 
didnt action it. As a result of what happened Miss Gs appointee, Mrs M, issued an 
instruction for the account to be closed. In accordance with this instruction, Bank of Ireland 
closed the account in December 2019.
Miss G says that because of whats happened a total of £675 was paid out of her account 
which shouldnt have been. She remained dissatisfied with how Bank of Ireland had dealt 
with her complaint. She complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. She thought that Bank of Ireland had made 
errors. She said it had actioned letters signed by Miss Gs appointee dated 12 March 2018 
and 17 October 2018. In respect of the October letter, one of the requests was to cancel a 
standing order for £55. This request had been actioned after the date for payment of the 
standing order.  A further letter sent on 22 November 2018 instructing Bank of Ireland to 
cancel a standing order payment of £124 hadnt been actioned and payments had been 
incorrectly taken from the account. 
Our investigator thought Bank of Ireland had received these letters and it shouldve actioned 
the requests. As a result, she said £675 had been incorrectly paid from the account. Miss G 
said shed recovered £420 of this. So, our investigator said Bank of Ireland should pay Miss 
G £255 plus 8% simple interest from the date the funds had left her account. She said Bank 
of Ireland had offered to pay Miss G £75 for the costs of postage and for distress and 
inconvenience. She thought it should increase this amount to £150.
Bank of Ireland didnt agree. It said there was no evidence the Order had been delivered to it 
in 2010. It also said that under our Rules any complaint about a failure to action a document 
delivered in 2010 was out of time and so we couldnt consider it. Bank of Ireland also thought 
that it was reasonable for it not to have actioned a request to cancel a standing order which 
was received within such a short timescale of the date when it was due to be paid. And, it 
said there was no evidence of where the letters from Miss Gs appointee had been sent.
Our investigator considered what Bank of Ireland had said. But she didnt change her view. 
She said that the complaint was not about what happened in 2010. She was satisfied it had 
received the letters and the requests in 2018 and those letters were clear. She said that 
where Bank of Ireland had made payments from the account after instructions to cancel 
those payments had been received, it was not up to Miss G to have to seek to recover those 
payments. 
Bank of Ireland didnt accept this. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Preliminary points raised by Bank of Ireland
Bank of Ireland has raised some preliminary points which Id like to deal with at the outset.
First, Id just point out that Im not considering whether a copy of the Order was provided to 
Bank of Ireland prior to 12 March 2018. Miss Gs complaint relates to what happened after 
12 March 2018 when she says she did provide a copy of the Order. This is the complaint 
that was dealt with in Bank of Irelands final response letter dated 12 March 2019. The 
complaint was referred to our service within six months of the date of that letter.
Secondly, Bank of Ireland says it gave Miss G referral rights to our service on 12 February 
2019 and the six month time limit ran from that date.  But it issued its formal final response 
letter, including a revised offer of compensation and (therefore) new referral rights, in its 
letter of 12 March 2019. 
Ive looked at the letter dated 12 February 2019 which Bank of Ireland sent to Mrs M. It does 
include information stating that Mrs M could refer Miss Gs complaint to our service. But it 
isnt a summary resolution communication. It didnt say it considered the complaint had 
been resolved. It said that a full investigation was being carried out and asked Mrs M to 
provide further information within two weeks otherwise it would consider the matter to have 
been resolved. No further communication was sent by Bank of Ireland until its final response 
letter dated 12 March 2019. Miss G referred her complaint to our service within six months of 
the date of that letter. So, Im satisfied this is a complaint our service can look into.
The Short Procedure OrderThe Short Procedure Order stated that Mrs G and Mrs M were appointed jointly and 
severally by the Court. They were authorised to operate the account held with Bank of 
Ireland in Miss Gs name as trustees for her benefit. So, this meant Bank of Ireland could act 
on instructions from either Mrs G or Mrs M in relation to the operation of the account.
The Letters of Instruction
Mrs M, one of Miss Gs appointees, issued several letters of instruction to Bank of Ireland in 
the period since 12 March 2018. Ive referred to each of these letters below and noted how 
Bank of Ireland responded to each instruction:
 letter dated 12 March 2018. 
The letter doesnt indicate what address it was sent to. But it does say that a copy of 
the Order is enclosed together with identification documents (a driving licence and a 
utility bill). The letter also asked for three standing orders to be set up.
Although its not clear from the documents Ive been provided with, when these 
standing orders were set up, I can see they were set up and payments were taken 
from the account. Miss G hasnt said this instruction wasnt complied with. So, Im 
satisfied Bank of Ireland received the letter and complied with the instructions.
At that time, I wouldve expected Bank of Ireland to note the terms of the Order on its 
systems. If it wasnt able to do that, or required additional documentation, Id have 
expected it to contact Miss G or write to Mrs M and Mrs G to explain what its 
requirements were. But it didnt do that. 
letter dated 22 August 2018. 
This letter included four separate instructions. Bank of Ireland has provided a 
document entitled Additional details for the following amendment transaction which 
shows that three of these instructions were actioned on 28 August 2018. And, it 
shows that these amendments were not made as a result of an internet banking 
request. So, Im satisfied Bank of Ireland received the letter dated 22 August 2018 
and actioned it.
A fourth instruction to amend the destination account for a standing order from 3 
September 2018 was also actioned  but after 3 September 2018. Miss G hasnt 
raised any complaint about that delay.
The fact that these requests were all actioned by Bank of Ireland, without any 
reference back to Miss G, Mrs G or Mrs M evidences not only that the requests were 
received by Bank of Ireland but also that it accepted Mrs M had authority to issue 
instructions on the account. 
letter dated 17 October 2018
 
This letter included three instructions. Two of these instructions were actioned on 23 
October 2018. A third instruction to cancel a standing order payment of £55 which 
was due to be paid on 29 October 2018 wasnt actioned until after that date. The 
information provided by Bank of Ireland supports the view that these changes were 
made as a result of the letter of instruction and were not made through an internet 
banking request. Bank of Ireland didnt contact Miss G, Mrs G or Mrs M to query these instructions or 
to ask for any additional information. So, Im satisfied it was content to rely on the 
documentation which it had already been sent as being sufficient for its purposes. 
Miss G did complain about the delay in cancelling the standing order referred to in 
this letter. 
Bank of Ireland has mentioned the short timescale given to cancel the standing 
order. It appears from the information Bank of Ireland has provided that this 
instruction was received on or before 23 October 2018  that is the date two of the 
instructions were actioned. So, I think, on balance, there wouldve been enough time 
to cancel the standing order for £55 before 29 October 2018.
Bank of Ireland has also queried who the payee of this standing order was. It has 
suggested that the standing order was paid into another account in Miss Gs own 
name. So, it says she wouldnt have suffered any loss as a result of its delay in 
cancelling this standing order. 
Mrs M hasnt commented on what Bank of Ireland has said but she has confirmed 
shes been able to recover this payment. And, its been included in the amount of 
£420 which she says shes recovered. So, I wouldnt expect Bank of Ireland to have 
to refund the payment of £55 which was paid out of the account on 29 October 2018.
 letter dated 22 November 2018. 
Like the previous requests, this letter referred to the Order and to the copies of 
identification already provided. The request was to cancel a standing order for £124 
paid weekly from 3 December 2018. Mrs M noticed the request hadnt been actioned. 
So, she wrote again to Bank of Ireland on 19 December 2018 to ask why. 
Bank of Ireland received the letter of 19 December 2018. But, in response, it sent an 
undated hand-written note to Miss G asking her to contact the branch. The standing 
order wasnt cancelled until 2 January 2019. By that date a total of five payments had 
been made from the account. 
Conclusions
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied Bank of Ireland received copies of the 
Order and Mrs Ms identification in March 2018. It relied on that documentation to follow her 
instructions in March 2018, August 2018 and October 2018. It hadnt questioned those 
instructions. If it had any additional requirements, it couldve raised them with Miss G, Mrs G 
or Mrs M. It hadnt done that. 
I think its fair and reasonable to have expected Bank of Ireland to comply with the instruction 
sent on 22 November 2018. It didnt do that. Although Bank of Ireland has suggested it may 
not have received the letter dated 22 November 2018, thats not the reason it gave for not 
actioning the request. It said it couldnt action the request because it didnt have a copy of 
the Order. And, its also said the timescale given was too short. 
Ive also looked at a screenshot from Bank of Irelands systems which shows a copy of the 
letter dated 22 November 2018 and an entry dated 9 December 2018 which states - Payer 
surname and signature does not match I think this supports the view that it had received 
the letter of instruction but decided not to action it because it didnt recognise Mrs M as a 
signatory for the account.As mentioned above, Im satisfied it had received a copy of the Order in March 2018. I also 
think there was sufficient time to cancel the standing order as requested in the letter dated 
22 November 2018 given that similar timescales had been achieved for previous requests. 
So, I think it shouldve actioned the instruction. Because it didnt do that, payments were 
taken from the account after the date when the standing order shouldve been cancelled. 
Miss G has been able to recover some of those payments. The balance she hasnt been 
able to recover is £255. I think its fair and reasonable to expect Bank of Ireland to pay that 
amount back to her and, as our investigator said, it should pay 8% simple interest on that 
amount from the date when it was taken from her account.
Bank of Ireland has apologised for the distress and inconvenience the situation caused. It 
offered to pay £75 (in total) by way of compensation for postage costs and for distress and 
inconvenience. Having considered the matter, I agree with what our investigator said about 
this. I think Bank of Ireland should increase this amount to £150 (in total). I think thats fair 
and reasonable compensation for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) plc. I now 
require it to take the following actions:
Refund the following sums (being £255 in total) together with interest as set out 
below to Miss G:
- £7 together with simple interest of 8%* from 17 December 2018 to the date of 
payment
- £124 together with simple interest of 8%* from 24 December 2018 to the date of 
payment
- £124 together with simple interest of 8%* from 31 December 2018 to the date of 
payment
Pay Miss G £150 (in total) for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of 
what happened.
*If Bank of Ireland (UK) plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part 
of my award, it should tell Miss G how much its taken off. It should also give Miss G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman