DRN-4087266
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked his accounts without notice. The 
accounts were later closed. Hed like to be compensated for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr K held a number of accounts with Nationwide, including a current account and savings 
accounts.
In October 2020 Nationwide placed his accounts under review, and blocked access to the 
account while they did so. They asked for further information about how he was using his 
accounts, and the source of his funds. Mr K says he provided information in branch, but 
Nationwide say they dont have a record of this. His accounts remained blocked. 
In January 2021 Mr K complained to Nationwide. Nationwide responded to say that the 
terms of the account allow them to restrict transactions while they carry out a review. They 
felt the blocks were applied correctly.
In February 2021 Nationwide wrote to Mr K to say they would not be providing him with 
banking services anymore, and that the money in the accounts was available to collect from 
branch. Mr K went to collect the money in June 2021, but found Nationwide were only willing 
to pay him a single cheque covering all the balances held by him  including his sole 
accounts, as well as joint accounts he held with other parties. Mr K explained he needed 
separate cheques for accounting purposes, but Nationwide wouldnt budge. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator got Nationwide to agree to send 
a cheque for the sole accounts separately. But they felt the reason for the blocks was 
reasonable, so they wouldnt ask Nationwide to compensate for any losses resulting in the 
block. They couldnt see Nationwide had caused any delays. They also found that the 
account was closed in line with the terms.
Mr K disagreed, saying they had received rude and unprofessional customer service. He 
accepted Nationwide closed the accounts as per the terms and conditions. But he said 
because separate cheques for the various accounts hadnt been issued, he had been 
deprived of his money for two years, which hed found incredibly stressful. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. After 
reviewing the file I was minded the complaint should be upheld in part. I issued my 
provisional decision which said:
Its right to say that Nationwide have certain legal and regulatory obligations to meet as part 
of their role in providing accounts to their consumers. These obligations mean that on 
occasion they need to review accounts and ask for further information from the consumer to 
understand how the account is being used. This is what happened with Mr Ks accounts, so I 
dont see this as unreasonable in itself. Its also not unreasonable for them to restrict the use 
of the account while they do so.
In this case the review began in late October 2020, but it wasnt until early February 2021 
that the review was completed. This is longer that Id expect this to take. Nationwide havent 
been able to adequately explain why this took such a long time. But I also accept they were 
waiting for information from Mr K to review.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about providing information in branch in November, 
although Nationwide dont have a record of this. Its unclear what information Mr K was trying 
to provide at the time, so I cant say that this likely would have changed Nationwides 
decision. And Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr K provided any of the information asked 
for about the funds in the account after this.
But Nationwide could have been clearer around what was happening, and how their review 
was progressing. I can see why Mr K would be frustrated by the lack of communication. 
Reviewing the account statements, I can see there were several regular direct debits that Mr 
K would have had to rearrange. Ive no doubt that would be inconvenient for him, but as Ive 
explained I think the initial decision to block the account was reasonable, so hed always 
have to make alternative arrangements for these payments.
Mr K has accepted that once the review was complete Nationwide were acting within their 
terms in closing the account. Ive reviewed the terms around when they can close accounts 
with no notice and considered the wider circumstances of the complaint. Im satisfied that in 
these circumstances the immediate account closure to be reasonable.
The funds were made available to withdraw in February 2021, but it isnt until June 2021 that 
Mr K attends branch to withdraw them  I appreciate this was during the pandemic, but it 
also doesnt suggest to me Mr K urgently needed these funds.
He was originally offered a cheque for the balances across all his accounts  but he asked 
for cheques in the names of the different capacities he held accounts. I accept this was a 
reasonable request. But I also consider that at this point Mr K did have his funds available to 
him to take. I appreciate his reasons for declining the cheque, but I dont see hes been 
denied access to these funds.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide were reasonable to block the account and request further 
information. When they didnt receive it its reasonable for them to close Mr Ks account. But 
I can see their communication on what was needed from him and the status of the 
investigation wasnt to the standard Id expect to see. I havent seen anything that Id 
consider rude or unprofessional, but I see why Mr K would be confused and upset by the 
service hed received and the length of time between the block and the releasing of the 
funds, and its reasonable for Nationwide to pay some compensation to reflect the impact of 
this. Having considered this, I find £75 would be a reasonable amount to pay.
Nationwide accepted the provisional decision. Mr K disagreed saying that Nationwide had 
caused the delay by not agreeing to issue separate cheques for the various capacities he 
held accounts with them to begin with, and it was his right to withdraw money as they 
require. He said he had handed in all the relevant documentation to branch, and he wasnt 
not updated during the investigation. He said they had not attended branch until June 2021 
because he was a vulnerable member of society, so it was not feasible to do so earlier 
because of the pandemic. He commented they were disappointed by the level of 
compensation and suggested this be discarded and he would pursue this through court.
After reviewing the additional points raised by Mr K it now falls on me to issue my financial 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied with the conclusions drawn in my provisional decision. 
Ive considered the additional points raised by Mr K and Mrs K, but will only make reference 
to those I feel are necessary to reach a fair outcome on this complaint.
Mr K held accounts with Nationwide is various capacities  so to be clear this decision 
concerns the accounts held in his sole name.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Nationwide were entitled to carry out a review of 
Mr Ks account  and during this review they were entitled to ask Mr K for more information 
about how the account was being run.
I considered what Mr K has said about giving the required documents to branch  but 
ultimately, I dont have enough evidence to support this. Mr K has asked that CCTV should 
be checked. But considering the length of time that has passed I think it unlikely any CCTV 
will be available for review. And in any case if CCTV could be found of Mr K in branch it 
would be unlikely to demonstrate what documents may have been handed in, and whether 
these would have likely changed Nationwides decision to close his account. I remain 
satisfied that Nationwide closed the account in line with their terms.
I agree with Mr Ks points that the review took much longer than is reasonable, and he 
wasnt properly updated during this process. I also agree that the request for the cheques to 
be issued in the capacity the accounts were held was reasonable, and its disappointing that 
Nationwide didnt agree to this originally. But Im satisfied that their offer to do so now is fair.
Im not persuaded this means Mr K had no access to the funds in the account  Nationwide 
were willing to allow Mr K to withdraw his funds  albeit also including funds he held jointly 
with others. I havent seen anything to show that it would have been impossible or onerous 
on Mr K to accept a cheque in his sole name and apportion the funds afterwards. He could 
have done more to mitigate his circumstances.
Likewise, I appreciate Mr K was a potentially vulnerable individual in the context of the 
pandemic  and I can understand the reluctance to attend branch. But Ive also seen nothing 
to suggest alternative arrangements were sought before June 2021. I remain satisfied that 
the funds have been available to Mr K since February 2021.
But there have been failings by Nationwide that Ive identified  around the length of time the 
review took, and the communication during this period. Its right that compensation is 
offered. Ive taken on board that Mr K wishes to pursue this through other means, but my 
role here is to decide what a fair and reasonable outcome would be. So, Im still minded that 
as part of my decision Nationwide should pay Mr K £75 to reflect the distress caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must
Issue a cheque in Mr Ks name for the funds he held in his sole name
Pay him £75 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman