DRN-2218916
The complaint
Mr I complains that he was mis-sold car finance provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS). Mr I is represented by a relative who Ill refer to as Ms M. 
What happened
Mr I took out a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with MBFS in early 2017. Last year he 
decided to change cars and he was shocked to find hed been paying interest and still owed 
about £20,000 under the finance. Mr I changes his car about every three years. Ms M says 
he never took out finance in the past and he had enough savings to fund this purchase so he 
must have been misled into taking out the HPA. 
MBFS doesnt accept that, it says (in summary)
Mr I was provided with information about the interest payable (amongst other things) 
in pre-contract credit information (PCCI) he received before he took out the HPA;
the amount of interest charged and the interest rate are also clearly displayed on the 
first page of the HPA that he signed; and 
Mr I was sent a statement every year that set out payment and interest details and he 
never questioned that. 
Our investigator is satisfied that the paperwork Mr I received and signed when he took out 
the HPA makes it clear that he was entering into a finance agreement and hed have to 
repay the credit provided plus interest. Shes not persuaded theres enough evidence to find 
Mr I was misled about the interest or other finance terms and she doesnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Ms M thinks thats unfair. She says other consumers who were mis-sold a different financial 
product received refunds  in spite of terms and conditions. She thinks the complexity of this 
sort of finance makes it easy to mislead vulnerable customers and she considers the dealer 
took advantage of Mr I. She asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr I has strong feelings about what happened here. And I can see that Ms 
M asked our investigator to ensure the ombudsman would see and consider correspondence 
that she sent. I want to assure Mr I and Ms M that I have read and considered everything 
that theyve said and sent to us. Im sorry to disappoint Mr I but, having considered all of the 
information available, Im unable to uphold this complain and Ill explain why below. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ms M has referred to complaints some consumers made about a different financial product 
which she thinks were upheld despite the provisions of standard terms and conditions. So, I 
should make it clear at the outset that we look at each complaint brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on its individual merits. And Im considering the particular 
circumstances of Mr Is complaint against MBFS here. 
Mr I took out this HPA over three years ago. I understand he changed his car regularly and 
he wouldnt generally take out finance to do this. Ms M has explained that she went with Mr I 
to get a new car in 2020. She says he only found out then that hed been paying interest 
under the HPA and he still had about £20,000 left to pay - and hed never have taken out the 
HPA if hed known what he was agreeing to.
I cant be certain what was said exactly when Mr I took out the HPA. I think its reasonable to 
look at the documents provided at the time  as this is likely to provide the best evidence of 
what was agreed. Ive read the HPA and the PCCI. Im satisfied this paperwork makes it 
clear that Mr I was entering into a finance agreement in order to acquire the car. I think the 
main financial consequences of doing so are displayed fairly prominently, on the first page of 
the HPA (in particular) where it sets out the cost of the car, the deposit Mr I paid, the interest 
rate, the APR, the amount of credit provided and the total cost of that, the size of each 
monthly repayment to be made over the 36 month duration and the amount of the optional 
final purchase payment. Im not persuaded this information is misleading or unclear. 
Ms M has suggested that the complexity of the agreement means it could easily be mis-sold 
to vulnerable customers. I can see Mr I was in his eighties when he took out the HPA but I 
cant reasonably find he was vulnerable on the grounds of his age alone. I asked our 
investigator to check if theres any reason the salesman in 2017 should reasonably have 
thought that Mr I might be vulnerable and/or require some additional explanation in relation 
to the finance - or need more time to think about the transaction. Ms M told us there isnt. 
She confirmed that, whilst she accompanied Mr I when he went to get another car last year, 
he didnt need her there for support or assistance  she just went along for something to do. 
I appreciate it must have been upsetting for Mr I when he realised the impact of the HPA 
terms last year. And I understand Ms M feels that he must have been misled when he took 
out the HPA. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr I was vulnerable at the relevant time. 
As I explained above, I think the terms of the finance agreement were made reasonably 
clear in the paperwork Mr I was given at the time. Mr I signed the HPA to confirm that he 
accepted the terms and Im satisfied he had two weeks to withdraw, if he changed his mind 
after he left the dealership. I also think its reasonable to bear in mind that Mr I was sent 
statements every year that set out payments and interest but he never queried that  or the 
amount he paid MBFS every month.  
I appreciate this may not have been Mr Is usual way of funding a new car. But, even if I 
accept he had enough savings to pay cash for this particular car, Im not persuaded thats 
sufficient grounds to reasonably conclude that this HPA was mis-sold. I cant be certain why 
Mr I decided to take out finance on this occasion. I can see from the relevant sale invoice 
that he got a cash rebate of over £4,000 as part of the deal. Ms M confirmed that Mr I 
cashed the rebate cheque  so he had the benefit of it. And I cant rule out the fact that this 
cash incentive may have been a deciding factor in Mr Is decision to take out finance for this 
particular vehicle.  
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that there are sufficient fair and reasonable 
grounds to uphold this complaint. For the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded MBFS did 
something wrong and I cant reasonably require it to provide a refund or do anything else. 
My final decisionMy decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman