DRN-4434394
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) reported missed 
payments to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) on a hire purchase agreement he had 
with them.
What happened
In September 2016, Mr O was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS. He paid an advance payment of £13,462.20 and the agreement was for 
£38,642.20 over 48 months; with 47 monthly payments of £448.19 and a final payment of 
£24,868.89 if Mr O wanted to keep the car. 
On 23 March 2020, Mr O contacted BMWFS as his income had been affected by the 
coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Following this discussion with BMWFS, Mr O made an 
agreed reduced payment of £100 a month between April and June 2020, before resuming 
full payments in July 2020. However, no arrangement was put in place for the £1,044.57 of 
payments Mr O missed during this period, and BMWFS reported this to the CRAs as arrears.
The agreement came to an end in September 2020, with the £1,044.57 still outstanding. It 
wasnt until February 2021 that Mr O paid this.
In October 2020, after returning the car to BMWFS, they charged Mr O £629.47 for mileage 
hed done in excess of what was allowed under the agreement; and £249 for damage to the 
car that fell outside of normal wear and tear. Mr O paid £20 in March 2021, £20 in April 
2021, and settled the outstanding amount in May 2021.
In 2022, Mr O applied for a remortgage and discovered BMWFS had reported arrears to the 
CRAs. He was also unhappy that the information being reported by the CRAs wasnt 
consistent. So, he complained to BMWFS. They said theyd reported factually correct 
information to the CRAs, so they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. But they did say 
they would ask the CRAs who were showing incorrect information to amend this.
Mr O wasnt happy with this response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidelines on support to 
customers whod been affected by Covid-19, published in April 2020, was clear that any 
temporary payment deferral shouldnt be recorded as arrears. And the investigator thought 
that what Mr O had agreed with BMWFS in March 2020 fell under these guidelines, so 
BMWFS shouldve retrospectively applied the guidelines, and not reported arrears.
The investigator also said BMWFS didnt make any arrangements for Mr O to repay the 
£1,044.57 deferred payments, either during the remainder of the agreement, or once it 
ended. So, the investigator thought BMWFS should amend Mr Os credit file to remove any 
arrears relating to the £1,044.57 deferred payments.
With regards to the end of contract charges, the investigator said he hadnt seen anything to 
show these charges werent due. So, he thought it reasonable that BMWFS reported arrears 
for the period this amount remained outstanding, and the agreement shouldnt be showing 
as settled until May 2021 when Mr O cleared the outstanding balance.
Finally, the investigator said that, while hed seen no evidence that Mr O hadnt been able to 
remortgage, or had received less favourable terms, because of what BMWFS were 
reporting; it would still have come as a shock to Mr O to find out BMWFS had been 
incorrectly reporting arrears, and this wouldve caused him some shock. So, the investigator 
said BMWFS should pay him £100 compensation to reflect this.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. He said that, while he accepted the excess mileage 
charges, he disputed the damage charges. The investigator explained that, as this wasnt 
something Mr O raised when he brought his complaint to us, it wasnt something weve 
looked into. 
Mr O was also unhappy the investigator recommended that BMWFS should report arrears 
for the end of contract damage charges, from when they were invoiced until when they were 
paid. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr O was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
Mr O first contacted BMWFS to explain how his income had been affected by Covid-19 on 
23 March 2020. Which was around a month before the FCA issued their guidelines about 
how affected customers should be treated. As such, I dont think BMWFS did anything wrong 
by making a three-month temporary arrangement of £100 a month. However, once the 
guidance had been published, I wouldve expected BMWFS to have applied this to Mr O.
This means that BMWFS shouldnt have reported the partially deferred payments as arrears. 
Whats more, I wouldve expected them to have contacted Mr O once he resumed making 
full payments. Given the short-term remaining on the agreement, it wouldnt have been 
reasonable for BMWFS to have expected Mr O to clear the deferred payments over the 
remaining term, and I wouldve expected them to extend the agreement by three-months, 
continuing to collect payments so as to clear the deferred payments.
However, BMWFS didnt do this. Instead, they reported the deferred payments as arrears. 
And they made no attempt to arrange repayment of the deferred payments with Mr O. So, I 
think they should do something to put things right.
With regards to the end of contract charges, Mr O has accepted the excess mileage charge 
is due. However, I havent seen anything that shows me the damage charges shouldnt have 
been charged.BMWFSs case notes show that Mr O raised the issue of the damage charges with them on 
17 November 2020. And they responded to his complaint on 15 February 2021, saying the 
charges were payable. If Mr O was unhappy with this response, he had six months in which 
to raise his complaint with us. And he didnt do so. As such, the damage charges arent 
something we have the power to consider. So, I wont be asking BMWFS to amend or waive 
this charge.
Putting things right
As Ive said above, BMWFS shouldnt have reported the deferred payments as arrears, so 
Id expect them to remove these from Mr Os credit file. However, the end of contract 
charges were invoiced on 21 October 2020, and its reasonable to allow Mr O a month to 
pay these. As he didnt do so, and as these formed part of the agreement he entered into 
with BMWFS, its reasonable that BMW record these as arrears from December 2020, until 
the payment was made in May 2021.
Whats more, as these final payments due under the agreement werent paid until May 2021, 
its also reasonable that BMWFS report the agreement as being open until then. So, Id 
expect BMWFS to make the necessary amendments to Mr Os credit file to reflect these 
changes.
Finally, its clear that Mr O was shocked when he found out BMWFS had been incorrectly 
reporting arrears. While Ive not seen any evidence that this has impacted his remortgage 
application, I still think BMWFS should compensate him for this. The investigator had 
recommended BMWFS pay him £100, which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no 
recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my 
final decision.
Therefore, BMWFS should update Mr Os credit file:
to remove any arrears relating to the deferred payments from April to June 2020; 
to show the arrears for the end of contract charges from December 2020 to May 
2021;
to show the settlement date of the agreement as May 2021; and
pay Mr O an additional £100 to compensate him for the shock and inconvenience 
caused by their incorrect reporting of his arrears.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint about BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman