DRN-3039532
Complaint
Miss B says Temple Finance Limited (trading as Perfecthome) irresponsibly lent to her.
  
Background
This complaint is about five Rent-to-own agreements Perfecthome entered into with Miss B. 
The agreements were to purchase household goods. Agreement 1 started in October 2008. 
Agreement 2 started in November 2010. Agreement 3 started in January 2016. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Bs complaint and thought that Perfecthome ought to 
have realised that agreements 3 to 5 were simply unsustainable for Miss B. Perfecthome 
didnt respond and the complaint was passed to me.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. And Ive referred to this when deciding Miss Bs case.
Perfecthome needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could afford to make her weekly repayments in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Perfecthome should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought Perfecthome unfairly ought to have 
realised that Miss B wasnt in a position to sustainably make the repayments on agreements 
3 to 5. As Perfecthome didnt respond, I dont know what it thinks our adjudicator got wrong.
Nonetheless Ive taken my own look at Miss Bs case and decided what I think is fair and 
reasonable. 
Having done so, I also think that Perfecthome shouldnt have entered into agreements 3 to 5 
with Miss B. I say this because given the amount being lent and the length of time Miss B 
was being expected to make payments for meant that it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate to get some idea of her income and expenditure. This is especially the case for 
agreements 4 and 5 which were entered into within weeks of each other and significantly 
increased Miss Bs weekly commitment to Perfecthome.  
If Perfecthome had done this, it would have seen Miss B had only recently been discharged 
from a bankruptcy. Shed also had significant difficulties making her payments to 
agreements 1 and 2. So Perfecthome ought to have realised Miss B had already faced a 
struggle attempting to sustainably repay what she owed and that there was a significant risk 
providing her with further credit in these circumstances would lead to her indebtedness 
increasing unsustainably. 
I think that Perfecthomes actions unfairly increased and prolonged Miss Bs indebtedness 
by giving her credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of time and the interest, 
warranties and insurances added got her into further debt. So Perfecthome should put things 
right.
 
Fair compensation  What Perfecthome needs to do to put things right for Miss B
Having carefully considered everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Bs case to put things right in the following way:
Perfecthome has already taken some steps, in relation to the balance on agreement 
3, in order to put things right. Im satisfied that what it did before closing this account 
was fair and reasonable. But Perfecthome now also needs to remove any adverse 
information recorded on Miss Bs credit file as a result of agreement 3;
rework the balances on agreements 4 and 5 to ensure that Miss B only pays the 
selling price of the goods concerned. This means that all interest, warranty amounts, 
insurance premiums and any late payment and over limit fees should be removed. 
The payments Miss B made should then be deducted from the new starting balance 
(in other words, the selling price of the goods);
AND
if the effect of removing all interest, warranty amounts, insurance premiums and any 
late payment and over limit fees results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Miss B, 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if 
they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all 
adjustments have been made, then Perfecthome should remove any adverse 
information from Miss Bs credit file.
ORif an outstanding balance remains on either of the agreements once these 
adjustments have been made Perfecthome should contact Miss B to arrange suitable 
repayment plans. Perfecthome should remove any adverse information from Miss Bs 
credit file if and when she clears the outstanding balance.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Perfecthome to take off tax from this interest. 
Perfecthome must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Miss Bs complaint. Temple Finance Limited 
should put things right in the way set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman