DRN-4118758
The complaint
Ms K complains that Santander UK Plc did not pay her the £200 switch incentive for 
transferring her current account to them.
What happened
Ms K says she made an online application on 27 January 2023 to switch her account from a 
third party provider to Santander in order to receive a £200 switch incentive. She says that 
because she did not have the physical card for her third party account, the online system 
directed her to a branch. Ms K says they told her she had 60 days to edit and complete the 
switch in order to receive the £200 incentive. Ms K says she contacted her third party bank 
to get a new card, switched two direct debits and transferred money to her Santander 
account. She contacted Santanders switch team who informed her the offer was not valid 
anymore. Ms K made a complaint to Santander.
Santander did not uphold Ms Ks complaint. They confirmed she applied for the account on 
27 January 2023 and the account was opened on the same day, however, she did not 
request a current account switch during the application because she didnt have her external 
bank details. They said she told them she attended the branch on 2 February 2023 with her 
external bank account number and sort code, but she hadnt received her new external debit 
card which was required to initiate the current account switch. 
Santander said she was told to call their switcher team when she received the card to edit 
the switch. They said although Ms K says she was told she had 60 days to complete the 
switch, the 60 day window is when Santander will check if she is eligible for the switch 
incentive offer after she first told them to switch the account. Santander said she called them 
on 13 February 2023 to start the switch, but the cash incentive offer expired on 9 February, 
therefore as she had not begun the switch prior to this date, she was not eligible for the 
£200. 
Ms K brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold her complaint. He 
said while Ms K did open a new account when the switch incentive was available, Ms K 
didnt have all of the required information to instruct the account switch. He said when she 
did have all of the information available, the offer had already been withdrawn. Ms K asked 
for an ombudsman to review her complaint and she sent us emails that Santander had sent 
her when she opened the account and information about the switch incentive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information that Ms K has sent us and Ive also looked at Santanders 
website where I can see this information and other information about the switch incentive. 
The press release shows that the incentive is Available to new and existing customers who 
fully switch their current account to Santander using the Current Account Switching Service 
(CASS) (1). Ive looked at the note (1) which says The £200 switching offer is for a limited 
time period and can be withdrawn at any time. Current Account Switch Service (CASS) 
makes switching simple, by transferring the existing current account balance, and all direct 
debits, standing orders and salary commitments, within seven days. Existing and new 
customers can switch in branch or online.
The press release also says To qualify, customers need to complete the switch using the 
CASS and, within 60 days, set up and maintain two active direct debits, deposit at least 
£1,000, and log in to online or mobile banking. So Santander are clear that the offer can be 
withdrawn at any time. So Ive looked to see if Ms K had used the CASS prior to the offer 
being withdrawn. And Im not persuaded she had. 
Theres no doubt that Ms K opened the account on 27 January 2023. But her application 
shows that she did not use the CASS at the point of application. There are no details of an 
account for Santander to switch over and the emails she sent us when her account was 
opened do not give any sign she initiated the CASS process as there is no mention of 
switching on the emails. Its likely she didnt initiate the switch as she was unable to as she 
did not have her external debit card number to give Santander. So although Ms K believes 
the switch started on 27 January, the evidence does not support this. 
As Ms K had to contact her third party bank to get a new card, by the time she contacted 
Santander on 13 February 2023, the offer had been withdrawn, which Santander had 
originally said the incentive can be withdrawn at any time. Santanders website confirms 
this with a press release on 9 February 2023 where it says Santander has confirmed that it 
will be ending its £200 switcher cashback today, with switch requests accepted until 23:59 9 
February 2023. The bank has seen strong demand in switching requests since the switcher 
cashback was launched on 23 January 2023. So as a switch request had not been made 
prior to 23:59pm on 9 February 2023, Ms K was not eligible for the switch incentive, despite 
her account being opened on 27 January 2023. 
Ive considered what Ms K has said about the branch staff saying she had 60 days to edit 
and complete the switch. But as Santander have said in their final response to her, the 60 
days relates to the window when Santander will check if shes eligible for the cashback offer, 
after she first told them to switch her account. But as she hadnt told them to switch her 
account (as she didnt have all of the required details to do this before the offer ended), then 
Im not persuaded Santander have made an error. So it follows I dont require Santander to 
do anything further here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman