DRN-1892287
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited took payment for a pet insurance policy 
hed asked them to cancel.
Background
In February 2019 Mr H was sent a renewal notice for his pet. Mr H decided not to renew his 
policy with Fairmead, but they went ahead and tried to renew the policy anyway.
Mr H has then had to spend time and effort in trying to make sure the policy gets cancelled, 
and no money is taken from his account for this policy.
After resolving these issues Mr H made a complaint about Fairmeads action in trying to take 
money from his account when he didnt authorise them to. He said this was illegal. He also 
said he was hounded for payment, when he called up they told him they had no information, 
and after receiving a letter saying the policy had been cancelled, he then received another 
letter saying money was owed.
In May 2019 Fairmead responded to Mr Hs complaint. They accepted there had been an 
error in setting up the direct debit after Mr H had specifically asked for it to be cancelled. 
They explained this happened as a result of the transfer of administration work from an 
outside company to their in-house team. The outside company didnt pass on Mr Hs 
instruction. They said sorry for what happened, and paid Mr H £50 compensation in 
recognition of their error.
Mr H though didnt accept £50 compensation for what he called a criminal offence. He said 
he didnt take out the policy, so asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so. In summary he said it wasnt in dispute that Fairmead had 
set up a new policy when Mr H had told them he didnt want to renew. And because we cant 
decide whether a criminal activity has occurred, hell only look at whether Mr H was caused 
financial loss, and if the compensation awarded was fair. Our investigator decided Mr H 
hadnt been caused any financial loss, as Fairmead told him the policy had been cancelled 
without anything being taken. And he felt £50 was fair compensation along with the apology 
Fairmead had offered.
Mr H didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
 
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Both parties agree on whats happened, in that Mr H asked for the renewal of his policy to be 
cancelled but it wasnt. So, like our investigator my focus at this point is to consider whether 
Mr H has suffered any financial loss, and whether the compensation paid to him is 
appropriate.
Fairmead have said no money was taken from Mr Hs account for this policy. Theyve 
provided copies of their letters to Mr H which also say this. This formed part of our 
investigators view which Mr H hasnt disputed, and I think he would have raised this if it were 
an issue. So, Im satisfied Mr H hasnt had any money taken out from his account.
He has though argued he would have suffered a financial loss if hed not put time and effort 
into resolving this issue. I can understand why hed say this. But my role isnt to deal with 
what could have happened, its to deal with what did happen  and as Mr H hasnt suffered 
any financial loss, I dont award anything for this. Its probably helpful to add that Id have 
expected Fairmead to refund any payments taken in error. And cover any financial difficulties 
this may have caused Mr H if payment had been taken.
Turning now to the compensation received. Its inevitable when something goes wrong that 
individuals will need to spend some time to put things right. Mistakes can and do happen, so 
my focus is looking at Fairmeads actions after Mr H made them aware of the issue.
Based on what Mr H has said it seems that Fairmead initially didnt deal with some of his 
concerns properly  hes said they didnt know about the renewal when he called up one 
time. But overall, Im satisfied Fairmead have acted fairly. I say this because they resolved 
the issue before any money was due to come out, and upon receipt of Mr Hs complaint 
responded within the timescales theyre allowed  providing an explanation for what 
happened. For those reasons Im satisfied an apology and £50 compensation is enough to 
resolve this complaint.
I can see that Mr H has raised a concern about the compensation being paid by a different 
company than the name of his previous insurer  saying as a result of this he doesnt accept 
hes had compensation from Fairmead directly. But I can also see in Mr Hs original 
complaint to us, hes said the other company is a subsidiary of Fairmead. So, I think its 
reasonable for me to say Mr H knew this other company was part of Fairmead, and as such 
Im satisfied the compensation hes received is ultimately from Fairmead themselves.
Mr H has said we should be raising this issue to the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. And where appropriate we can do that, although itll always be in confidence. Mr H 
can contact them himself if he wishes to raise his concerns.
Mr H has also raised several wider concerns about Fairmeads actions in this complaint  
calling what theyve done illegal, and saying their actions are criminal. Our service isnt the 
appropriate body for these concerns. In Mr Hs case, for the reasons Ive explained above, 
Im satisfied Fairmead have done enough to put this matter right. If Mr H wishes to take 
matters further, he may wish to consider his legal options.
 
 
My decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman