DRN-1908600
 
The complaint
Miss F complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined a claim under her 
car insurance policy but would pay the third party and reclaim the costs from her.
What happened
Miss F had an existing policy with Advantage and called to add another car on a temporary 
basis. She explained the car was her partners and she wanted to make sure it was insured 
as it was going to be kept on a road until the partner was able to take it away. Miss F said 
she needed insurance so that the car didnt towed away. She was clear that the car wasnt 
currently insured, and Advantage agreed to insure it and issued documentation in the form of 
temporary cover notes.
In December 2018, the vehicle was involved in an accident when her partner was driving. 
Miss F wasnt at the scene, but her partner accepted liability for the accident and admitted 
he had no insurance. As it was discovered that Advantage were the only insurance company 
insuring the vehicle at the time, it said it had to deal with the claim under the Road Traffic Act 
(RTA).
Although Miss F was insured by Advantage to drive the vehicle, her partner wasnt. 
Advantage explained to Miss F that there was no cover under the policy because the car 
was being driven by someone who wasnt named on her policy. Advantage paid the third-
partys claim and is pursuing its costs from Miss F. 
Miss F says that the additional cover for the temporary vehicle was mis-sold, as she wasnt 
the registered keeper of the vehicle  so she feels it was essentially void from the start. She 
also says that had the correct process been followed, she shouldve been advised to add the 
registered keeper to her policy as a named driver. In the alternative Miss F said she could 
have driven the car under the policys driving other cars extension.
Advantage said the correct process had been followed when the temporary insurance was 
arranged, and it was covering the vehicle for what Miss F had asked. But Miss F wouldnt 
have been able to drive the vehicle under driving other cars extension because there was 
no other insurance policy in place. It therefore didnt agree it had done anything wrong, as 
Miss F had breached the policy terms by allowing an uninsured driver to drive the vehicle.
Our investigator didnt think the policy had been mis-sold, as it did exactly what Miss F 
wanted  cover the car while it was being kept on a road. And he ultimately decided not to 
uphold the complaint. He considered what the RTA said and what this meant for Miss Fs 
claim. Having done so, he acknowledged that the RTA allows Advantage to recover its costs 
in this situation, and he thought Miss F had contributed to the vehicle being driven 
uninsured. Despite sending a consent and indemnity form to Miss F which she didnt sign 
and return, he thought it was reasonable that Advantage had continued to conduct 
proceedings to mitigate its outlay. Ultimately, he didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Advantage to pursue Miss F for the costs.
Miss F didnt agree as she said the vehicle didnt belong to her and Advantage knew this  
so she didnt have any control over whether her partner drove it, as it wasnt for her to give 
permission. Because of this, she said she couldnt report that the vehicle had been driven 
without her permission or been stolen. Miss F still felt the additional temporary insurance 
wasnt required and that Advantage shouldve advised her to check the registered keeper 
had insurance which wouldve avoided this situation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue of a potential mis-sale is not one I am persuaded has any merit. Miss F asked 
Advantage to add a second car to her policy as she intended to park it on the road for a 
short period of time and didnt want it to be towed away for not being insured. And she said 
that she was in the process of completing a SORN (Statutory Off-Road Notification). From 
her call with Advantage, its clear that she was aware her partner didnt have an insurance 
policy in place. So had Advantage refused to add the car to her policy it was left vulnerable 
to the very thing Miss F explained she wanted protection for. Advantage was prepared to 
offer cover knowing Miss F wasnt the registered keeper and thats a decision its entitled to 
make. 
Advantage wasnt asked for advice and it didnt offer any advice. So, Im not persuaded that 
it should have explored with Miss about whether she wanted to add her partner as a named 
driver. Vehicle ownership is not determined based on being able to drive a car and so I see 
no persuasive reason to place responsibility on Advantage. Ultimately, whether the partner 
was insured to drive the car was primarily for the partner to arrange individually or potentially 
through Miss F. And Miss F couldnt have been added as a named driver to the partners 
insurance policy as he didnt have one.
Ive looked at the policy to see whether Miss F was entitled to drive the vehicle under the 
driving other cars section. Its clear in the policy that certain conditions must be met for 
Miss F to benefit from this cover, one of which is that there must be a current and valid policy 
of insurance in force for the vehicle being driven. So, if Miss F didnt add the car to her 
policy, and knowing that the car wasnt insured elsewhere, she wouldnt have been able to 
benefit from the driving other cars cover. 
The next issue is whether its fair that Advantage seeks to recover its costs from Miss F. 
Under the policy Advantage is entitled to take over and settle any claim. This is common to 
every motor insurance policy Ive seen. It enables an insurer, among other matters, to meet 
its requirements under road traffic legislation as well as minimise costs by conducting the 
settlement of a claim. Under the RTA Advantage must settle an unsatisfied judgment 
obtained by a third-party where a valid policy is in place. And an insurer can pursue the 
driver, the policyholder and or the person who allowed the uninsured driver to use the 
vehicle. 
It is apparent that the claim didnt go to court and so strictly speaking this part of the RTA 
doesnt apply. And Im aware that Miss F didnt sign and return the consent and indemnity 
form for Advantage to take over proceedings in her name. However, the policy does allow 
Advantage to take over and settle any claim and it has exercised that policy right in Miss Fs 
case. Ive thought carefully about whether it has exercised that right fairly, and Im satisfied it 
has. There was no issue that the driver of the car in the accident was refuting liability and 
Advantage used its expertise to settle the claim on the best terms with the other insurance 
company. Indeed, Miss F has recently sent us a letter from the driver in which he accepts liability for the accident and has apparently admitted as such to the police. Notwithstanding 
the admission it doesnt mean Advantage is unfair to pursue Miss F for its costs.
Advantage has said it will potentially look to recover its costs from the person driving the 
vehicle at the time of the accident if provided with their details. Miss F can always check with 
Advantage what details it holds and provide any details Advantage needs together with the 
letter in which liability is accepted. Im satisfied thats a fair approach.
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE)
Advantage has recorded the claim on the CUE database as a fault claim, meaning it will 
need to be declared as such in future by Miss F if shes asked. While the accident wasnt 
caused by Miss F the fact is that the claim is being paid under her policy. Fault in the 
context of how a claim is recorded means that the insurer has made a payment that it hasnt 
been able to recover. So, if Advantage successfully recovers its outlay on the claim then it 
should update the claim type to non-fault. 
I do appreciate that Miss F has found herself in a difficult situation, but Im not persuaded 
that Advantage has acted unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman