DRN-2718215
The complaint
Mr C complains about how long he waited to try and speak to Barclays Bank UK PLC about 
a number of account issues.
What happened
Mr C says he had problems accessing his online banking and had issues with new account 
cards. He says he has spent over 30 hours on hold to Barclays whilst trying to speak to it, 
which he says is too long and it should tell customers how long they are likely to have to wait 
for. Mr C also says he was told to attend a branch when he ought to have been shielding 
and says he cant have a certain application which I will call A for the type of account he 
has. He would like about £450 compensation for the calls and says he doesnt have itemised 
billing but has provided screen shots of the length of the calls.
Barclays says it has sent Mr C a number of final response letters about his issues. In 
summary it accepts there was a problem when the account was set up which meant Mr C 
suffered some of the problems. It says Mr Cs account doesnt have the facility to use the A 
pay facility and says Mr Cs account activity suggests he was able to attend shops for 
example but says it used video facilities to help Mr C. Barclays says it has paid £375 
compensation and paid £142.50 for Mr Cs call costs and will not increase that offer.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays had sorted out the problems and paid an appropriate level of 
compensation. And thought that Mr C was unable to provide any further evidence of the call 
costs or provide evidence of the cost of topping up his telephone account such as from 
payments from his account.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says the previous problems were sorted out, but he would 
like compensation for the further calls he made to Barclays. He questions why he isnt 
allowed the A facility for the type of account he has and says he has provided enough 
evidence of the calls to Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by paying what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount. I appreciate 
Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about 
whats taken place.
I make clear to Mr C that we are not Barclays regulator and so its not our role to tell it that it 
should allow all of its customers to be able to use the A pay facility and not limit it to certain 
types of accounts. Im satisfied that such decisions are for Barclays to make when exercising 
its commercial judgement and is not something I can fairly interfere in. I also make clear that, 
whilst I appreciate that Mr C would like to be told how long he is likely to be on hold for when 
he calls Barclays, again that is not something I can order for the same reasons.
The there is no dispute here that Barclays made a mistake in setting up the account which 
meant Mr C was unable to use online banking. I am sure that caused Mr C inconvenience 
and frustration, but Im also satisfied that Barclays has fairly apologised and paid what I think 
is a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £375 and fairly paid £142.50 towards the 
call costs. I have not seen any evidence Mr C suffered any financial loss and I think the 
problems were resolved in a relatively short time period.
I appreciate Mr C says he then spent further time on hold to Barclays in September 2020. I 
dont think it clear why he did so as it appears the problems were resolved by then and I can 
see that Mr C accepts that is the case. I can also see that Barclays says the calls to it may 
have been free and that Mr C is unable to provide actual evidence of the call costs or the 
cost of topping up his phone which must have been a significant amount. In those 
circumstances I cant be sure the calls were essential or necessary and, in any event, I cant 
fairly order that Barclays repay them without any evidence of the actual cost which I think Mr 
Cs phone provider could give him or evidence about the top up cost.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays has paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount and 
I dont require it to increase that payment. I also think this brings an end to what we in trying 
to resolve this dispute informally can do to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman