DRN-3440604
Complaint
A, a limited company, is represented by Mr T. It complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt
reimburse it when it fell victim to a scam.
Background
In late 2020, Mr T was researching potential investment opportunities. He tells us he
submitted enquiries on the websites of several financial services firms. On 6 November
2020, he was contacted by someone claiming to represent one of those companies. They
said they were a broker and could use his funds to purchase a bond on the secondary
market. He was told he could expect an annual yield of 6.5%
Unfortunately, Mr T hadnt been speaking with a representative of a legitimate firm, but a
scammer. The scammer had created what is known as a cloned firm  designed to look
indistinguishable from the genuine one.
Mr T says that the caller gave the impression of being very knowledgeable. He emailed Mr T
with a document setting out the terms of the investment which Mr T clarified by email. He
said he took several precautions to ensure that he was dealing with a legitimate firm. He
found that the bond did exist  it had been issued by a UK bank in the late 1990s and all of
the key details (the return it paid, the date of maturity and so on) were consistent with the
legitimate bond. He says he checked the Companies House register and found that the
company did exist and that its contact details matched those on the website of the
investment company he was communicating with.
He says he searched the register maintained by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to
check whether the firm was regulated and if there was anything else he needed to know
about it. He found nothing that concerned him.
Overall, Mr T was satisfied that it was likely that the investment was legitimate, and he was
happy to proceed with the payment. In total, he transferred £72,300. As he made the
payment online, he was shown a warning.
The warning said:
Investment scams attempt to get you to invest your money into fake schemes.
If youve been contacted on social media about investing in a scheme which seems
too good to be true, its probably a scam.
Have you researched the company to verify their credentials?
If you have any doubts whatsoever, complete these checks first before going ahead
with the payment.
Mr T proceeded with the payment despite the warning. Shortly afterwards, the scammers
contacted him again and tried to persuade him to make a further investment. He found it
unusual to be contacted again so soon. He went back and carried out several of the same
checks. This time, when searching the FCA Register, he found a warning about fraudsters
operating a clone of the firm he thought hed invested with. From what Mr T has told us, it
sounds like the first time, he had searched using the full legal name of the company and the
second time, he used its shorter trading name.
Mr T promptly notified Starling that hed been the victim of a scam. Starling investigated his
complaint and considered it under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code but
declined to pay him a refund. It said that:
Although Mr T had carried out some checks, it didnt think hed carried out sufficient 
due diligence.
It said he shouldve asked for a written contract before proceeding.
Mr T shouldve sought independent financial advice from an FCA regulated firm.
Mr T shouldve heeded the warning that Starling presented to him when he was 
making the payment.
It also pointed out that the search for the short version of the companys name on the 
FCA website brings up the warning about a cloned firm. A search for the full name of 
the legal entity doesnt bring up any results at all. Even if Mr T had searched for the 
full name, a search with no results wouldve suggested that the firm wasnt regulated 
and shouldve prompted him to proceed carefully.
Starling contacted the receiving bank and was able to recover some of the money that was
lost  in total, it was able to recover £24,334.08. However, it didnt think it needed to pay him
a refund under the CRM Code.
Mr T was unhappy with the response from Starling and so he referred a complaint to this
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator broadly
agreed with the conclusions reached by Starling. In addition, she said that:
Mr T looked up the firm on the FCA Register but found no results. He took this to 
mean that there was no reason to be concerned. The Investigator thought the fact 
that the firm didnt appear on the register shouldve been a red flag.
Mr T might have looked up the investment company on Companies House and found 
a corresponding entry in the register, but it didnt say on that entry that the firm dealt 
with financial services.
Mr T shouldve been more suspicious about the fact that he was asked to make his 
transfer to a company with a different name to the investment company.
The Investigator also noted that Starling had displayed a warning at the point Mr T 
gave the payment instruction, but she was persuaded that the warning was an 
Effective Warning as defined in the CRM Code which meant Starling didnt have to 
pay Mr T any compensation.
Mr T disagreed with the Investigators opinion. He said that, when he searched for the
company on the FCA Register, a result did appear but there was no warning displayed. He
said that, although the Companies House register didnt say that the firm was a financial
services firm, it said it handled Client and Sales Support Functions.Mr T said he did question why he was making the payment to a third party, but he says he
was told this was a payment processing firm and that the firm he was dealing with couldnt
take funds directly  it was simply brokering the investment.
As Mr T disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to
consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 25 February. I wrote:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im 
required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. Theres no dispute here that Mr T authorised this payment on behalf of A. 
However, Starling has signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM code). Under that code, the 
starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an 
APP scam. There are a limited set of circumstances set out in the code in which a 
firm can choose not to fully reimburse its customer and Starling has
argued that two of those exceptions are applicable in this instance
It is for Starling to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care 
under one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. Those 
exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being 
made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business 
with whom they transacted was legitimate.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
I have carefully considered Starlings representations about the warnings it gave and
whether Mr T had a reasonable basis for belief. But they do not persuade me that Mr 
T failed to take the requisite level of care required for the firm to choose not to 
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. Ive dealt with the relevant exceptions 
below.
Reasonable basis of beliefStarling can decline to pay a refund if Mr T made the payment without a reasonable 
basis of belief that the transaction was legitimate. Ive considered this point carefully 
and Im satisfied that Mr T did have a reasonable basis of belief here.
The bond paid a realistic return. Its terms had been chosen to match a genuine bond 
issued by a UK bank in 1998 and the scammer provided Mr T with copies of the 
original issuance documents as well as contemporary fake documents that looked 
plausible.  Im not persuaded that it shouldve been a warning sign to Mr T that he 
hadnt been asked to physically sign a document confirming the terms of his 
investment. Mr T has told us there was an exchange between him and the scammer 
in which the technicalities of the investment were discussed, and he was given a 
document setting out the terms of his contract. Its increasingly common (and 
particularly so in the world of financial services and investments) for people to 
contract with one another without signing a document by hand and there are only a 
small number of circumstances in which there is a strict requirement that they do so.
Starling has argued that Mr T shouldnt have proceeded with the investment given 
the information found on the FCAs website. It says that if Mr T searched using the 
short version of the company name, hed clearly have found the warning that 
fraudsters had cloned it for the purposes of luring people into investment scams. But 
it also says that, if Mr T had searched using the full name of the company, it wouldve 
produced no results at all. If Mr T had been presented with that search result, he 
shouldve at least been concerned that he might have been dealing with a firm that 
wasnt regulated by the FCA and so proceeded more cautiously.
Mr T says that the firm was listed but that no warning was displayed. I cant know for 
sure what he saw when he carried out that search, but I dont find it particularly 
strange that there might be a difference between what he saw at the time and the 
information thats available now. An online search reveals that the company Mr T 
believed he was investing with was based outside the UK, but in an EU member 
state. It appears to have been regulated (via passporting rights) by the FCA. As a 
result of legislative changes following Brexit, passporting ended on 31 December 
2020 and so the company was no longer regulated by the FCA by default. Its not 
surprising that it cant be found on the FCA register today.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that the company name did appear on the 
register when Mr T searched for it. Hes said that he carried out a search using the 
full name of the company (rather than the shorter name) and since that search term 
doesnt appear to bring up the warning about the cloned firm even today, Im satisfied 
its more likely than not that he didnt see the warning.
Finally, I dont agree that the fact that the payment was made to a third-party would
undermine the reasonableness of his belief. The scammers told him they couldnt 
accept payment directly because they were only brokering the deal and I dont find 
that explanation to be so out of the ordinary that Mr T shouldve treated it with 
caution.
Overall, Im not persuaded Starling has established Mr T didnt have a reasonable 
basis for belief that he was paying a legitimate business for a genuine service. It 
follows that Im not persuaded the exception related to reasonable basis for belief 
applies to the payment he authorised and that Starling can choose not to reimburse 
him.
The warningOur Investigator concluded that Starlings warning was an Effective Warning as 
defined in the CRM code, but I dont share that conclusion. The CRM Code says that 
an Effective Warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. 
While the warning points to the risk to a customer of being coaxed to invest in a fake 
scheme, but I dont think Mr T wouldve thought it was specific to the set of 
circumstances he faced.
It makes a specific reference to being wary if youve been contacted on social media 
about the investment and to be particularly concerned if the investment is too good to 
be true. Neither of these things were the case here. Mr T left his contact details on 
several websites that he thought looked like they belonged to reputable investment 
companies  so this interaction didnt begin on social media. Furthermore, the 
prospective return here was a plausible one, rather than too good to be true.
In addition to that, it asks the customer whether theyve researched the company to 
verify their credentials  something which Mr T, in his own mind, had already done in 
the ways Ive described above. Overall, I dont think Mr T wouldve thought that this 
warning was particularly relevant to his circumstances and so I dont think it was 
effective.
Starling disagreed with my provisional findings. It reiterated that it considered the warning it 
displayed shouldve been impactful and led Mr T to carry out further checks before agreeing 
to transfer any money. It also drew my attention to the short period of time between Mr T 
searching the FCA website without any results of concern and then searching it more 
carefully and finding the warning about the cloned company. It said that its unrealistic to 
expect that the FCA website had changed in such a short space of time and that, if Mr T had 
carried out appropriate checks at the right time, hed have found the warning about the 
cloned firm.
It's not clear to me what argument is being made here. The finding I set out in my provisional 
decision doesnt depend on the FCA website changing significantly in a few days. Starling 
had argued that Mr T shouldve been concerned to find no results when searching using the 
full legal name of the company. He says he did find a result but that it didnt contain any 
information that concerned him. On the balance of probabilities, I think Mr Ts recollections 
are accurate. A search on the FCA register carried out today using the full legal name of the 
company produces no results. A search using the shortened name returns the details of the 
cloned firm and provides a warning that its not authorised by the FCA.
Mr T says he searched using the full legal name when carrying out his initial checks, but it 
was only when his suspicions developed that he searched again using the shortened name 
and found the warning. As I explained in my provisional findings, I dont find it surprising that 
Mr T says he saw an entry on the register when he searched using the full legal name of the 
company. The evidence Ive seen suggests it would have been a regulated firm at the time 
and so wouldve appeared on the register.
Furthermore, and for the same reasons as I set out in my provisional findings, Im 
unpersuaded that the warning Starling gave as part of the payment journey was an impactful 
one. From Mr Ts perspective, he had carried out some checks to reassure himself that he 
wasnt falling for a scam. The warning suggests that Mr T take further precautions if he has 
any doubts about the legitimacy of the recipient. But as he was confident he was dealing 
with the legitimate firm (and was reasonable in having reached that conclusion), I dont think 
a warning couched in these terms wouldve prompted him to carry out any further checks to 
protect himself from the risk of financial harm. Overall, I remain unpersuaded that Starling has shown any of the exceptions set out in the 
CRM code are applicable here and so Im issuing a final decision along the same lines as 
set out in my provisional findings.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
If A accepts my decision, Starling Bank Limited needs to:
Pay it a full refund, less the money it was able to recover from the receiving bank.
Add on interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date it declined his claim 
under the CRM until the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman