DRN-2162320
The complaint
Mr X complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unfairly declined 
his income protection claim.
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the background to this complaint, so Ive only provided a 
brief summary of what happened below.
Mr X has the benefit of a group income protection policy through his employer. The policy is 
designed to provide a regular payment in the event that an employee becomes 
incapacitated and unable to perform the essential duties of their own occupation.
In 2018 Mr X said costochondritis and a slipped disc were preventing him from working. But 
Legal and General declined Mr Xs claim, and said the medical evidence suggested his 
condition had been continuing to improve. It also said the evidence suggested Mr X would 
have been considered fit to commence a graduated return to work, and the reason he 
hadnt done so previously was because of his commute.
Mr X complained. But Legal and General maintained its decision and so, unhappy with 
what had happened, Mr X referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter, but she didnt think Legal and General had 
declined the claim unreasonably and said:
The available medical evidence did suggest that Mr X had been in a position 
to begin a phased return to work and the length of his commute had 
prevented him from doing so sooner.
Legal and General had tried to obtain additional information about Mr Xs 
ability to work but, despite its attempts, hadnt been provided with anything 
further.
Mr X disagreed and provided additional evidence. But our investigator said the additional 
evidence didnt substantiate what had medically prevented Mr X from working at the time 
of the claim. She also said it had been produced 20 months after Mr Xs claim, was difficult 
to apply retrospectively, and took away from any opportunity Legal and General might 
have had to get more information at the time. So as no agreement was reached, the 
matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, Legal and General should 
handle claims both promptly and fairly, and it shouldnt reject them unreasonably.
Mr Xs income protection policy carries a 28 week deferred period, and it sets that out 
an insured member will be considered incapacitated and unable to work in their own 
occupation when:
 the member: (i) is incapacitated by a specific, diagnosed illness or injury which 
prevents him from performing the essential duties of the job he carried out under his 
contract of employment as amended from time to time immediately before the start 
date of the deferred period and (ii) continues to be in employment. The insured 
members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation will be 
determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.
So it wouldnt be enough for the medical evidence to show that Mr X was unwell. It 
would need to show that throughout the deferred period he was incapacitated by a 
specific, diagnosed injury or illness. And prevented from performing the essential 
duties of his own occupation too, which I note was office based and sedentary.
Mr X clearly disagrees with the way Legal and General has interpreted the medical 
evidence in this complaint. But having considered that evidence myself, I dont 
think Legal and Generals interpretation was unreasonable. Ill explain why.
In May 2018, a consultant rheumatologist reported that Mr Xs costochondritis had 
been much better and advised he kept active with exercise. A musculoskeletal 
feedback form also noted that Mr X should resume a graded return to commuting, 
before commencing a graded return to work to ensure he was able to travel without a 
flare up of his symptoms.
In June 2018 the consultant again reported that Mr X was much improved. And Mr Xs 
GP said he could return to work on a gradual programme. An occupational health 
advisor did advise that Mr X was unfit for work because of chest pain and fatigue in 
July 2018. But in September 2018, Mr Xs consultant again reported that Mr X was 
making progress; sleeping better; keeping as active as possible; and, was 
experiencing a tolerable level of pain.
A flare up of symptoms was noted by the consultant in September 2018. But they 
reported they were hopeful of Mr X going back to work in due course. So I think the 
medical evidence up until this point did suggest that Mr X had been steadily improving 
throughout the deferred period and that he had, at times, been considered fit to return 
to work.
However, in October 2018 Mr Xs consultant said that although they had previously 
discussed a return to work, the length of Mr Xs commute had made that option 
unsustainable. Mr X is already aware that his policy doesnt cover his commute. So 
based on what was made available, in the round I think the evidence suggested 
that Mr X was improving and had been considered fit to resume work at times.
As previously explained, Mr X needed to demonstrate an incapacity which prevented 
him from performing the essential duties of his own occupation. And in situations where 
an insurer thinks a claimant hasnt provided sufficient evidence to support a claim, it 
isnt unusual to see requests further information being made.
Legal and General attempted to do that twice in this case. Its first attempt was 
approaching Mr Xs consultant to ask follow-up questions about the commuting issues that had been reported. But Mr Xs consultant advised they had nothing 
further to add, and said it wasnt their place to comment on any decisions 
surrounding when, or how, Mr X returned to work.
Legal and Generals second attempt was making a functional capacity 
assessment (FCA) request to Mr Xs employer. Mr Xs disputes this, but Legal 
and General has shown it made this request. And as both sides are aware, no FCA 
took place.
So I dont think it was unreasonable of Legal and General to conclude that Mr X had 
been steadily improving, and had not returned to work sooner because of his 
commute.
Since approaching this service Mr X has provided an updated letter from his consultant. 
The letter is dated July 2020, and provides additional commentary on the information 
the consultant had previously given in late 2018 (which had addressed Mr Xs commute 
and ability to work). Understandably, Mr X feels this recent letter should support his 
position. But as our investigator noted, the letter has been provided in response to 
evidence that was produced almost 2 years ago.
At the time of his claim, Legal and General had asked the consultant to provide further 
information about Mr Xs commute making an earlier return to work unsustainable. 
But, as Ive already set out, the consultant said they had nothing further to add and 
said it wasnt their place to comment on when or how Mr X returned to work.
Aside from the difficulty in retrospectively applying evidence, I think the consultants 
recent letter puts Legal and General in an unfair position. I say this because despite 
its attempts, Legal and General wasnt provided with this evidence at time of asking 
for it, and therefore wasnt able to consider or ask any further questions around what 
has since been said. So, in the circumstances of this complaint, I think it would be 
unfair for something produced almost two years after it was asked for to be relied on.
I realise Mr X will be disappointed by that. But in view of the medical evidence made 
available, I dont think Legal and General declined this claim unreasonably and I 
wont be interfering with its decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
Jade Alexander
 
Ombudsman