DRN-3957243
The complaint
Mr M complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank) gave 
inaccurate information and advice regarding the closure of an account, and then failed to 
quickly provide clarification regarding the impact of that on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M held an account with M&S which was due to close on 31 August 2021. Mr M contacted 
M&S on that date to say he was intending to use the switching service to change his account 
to a different bank. He was advised that no further direct debits would come out of his 
account after this date, and M&S has confirmed that his account should have been inhibited 
at this stage to ensure that this happened. But this inhibition was not put in place.
In early September three direct debits debited Mr Ms account, taking it around £250 
overdrawn. Mr M contacted M&S and was told these direct debits would be returned unpaid 
as the account had been closed. Again, this was incorrect, the direct debits were paid and 
Mr Ms account remained overdrawn. He subsequently received a message from M&S 
saying he was in an unarranged overdraft and so made contact to find out what had 
happened. At this stage Mr M raised a complaint about what had happened so far. M&S 
responded on 15 October 2021 saying that the account had not closed as direct debits were 
pending, and that the outstanding balance needed to be repaid before the account could 
close.
Mr M paid the outstanding balance of the account on 15 October 2021, at this time he was 
told by M&S that the unarranged overdraft may have been reported to the credit reference 
agencies. He was concerned about the potential impact of this and so asked for his 
complaint to be reopened and reconsidered, at this time M&S explained that if Mr Ms credit 
file had been incorrectly updated then that would be corrected. 
M&S provided a further response on 7 December 2021. It explained that it had made errors 
in how it had handled Mr Ms account and the information it had given him and offered £150 
compensation.
But Mr M remained concerned about the potential impact on his credit file and asked for 
further clarification. He chased M&S for a response on 11 January 2022. And on 27 January 
2022 M&S confirmed that Mr Ms credit file had been unaffected by what had happened and 
no adverse information had been recorded.
Mr M was unhappy with how M&S had handled things, so he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, but felt that overall the 
compensation M&S had offered was fair. Mr M disagreed, so his complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions our Investigator set out, and for the same 
reasons. 
I appreciate that what has happened here has caused Mr M some stress and inconvenience. 
He was given inaccurate information by M&S and that led to his account going overdrawn, 
and to him then having to spend time and effort sorting things out. I also acknowledge that 
M&S did not initially respond to Mr Ms concern that his credit file had been negatively 
affected, and that Mr M had to chase its response regarding this issue several times. 
Mr M has said he was applying for a mortgage during this period and so was particularly 
concerned about any potential negative information on his credit file. I can understand why 
this would have been important to him, but I also must bear in mind that it is free and 
relatively simple for Mr M to check his credit file. And given that he repaid the outstanding 
balance on 15 October 2021, if there were no issues with his credit file within a month or so 
then I think he could safely assume that no adverse information would be recorded. So Mr M 
could have mitigated any stress caused to him by checking his own credit file to see what 
had happened, however it doesnt appear that he did this.
I understand that Mr M feels the compensation already offered only addresses the initial 
issues he had, and not the delay in M&S updating him about his credit file, he considers that 
further compensation is warranted here. But what is appropriate compensation can be 
subjective and what might feel reasonable or enough to one person might not be the same 
for another - and based on what I've seen I think the £150 M&S has offered is fair and in line 
with what I would have recommended in the circumstances.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr M, but I hope he will understand the reasons for my 
decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman