DRN-3025301
The complaint
Mr A has complained Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited granted a hire 
purchase agreement in his name without his consent.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr A contacted Mercedes-Benz (MBFS) about direct debits that were 
coming out of his account.  
Mr A complained to MBFS. In July 2019 they picked up the car from him and marked the 
agreement as settled. Mr A complained as hed paid £5,994 in monthly payments for an 
agreement that hed never taken out. MBFS admitted there were irregularities in releasing 
the car in April 2018 to third parties but wouldnt refund him any further money.
Mr A brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Mr A had admitted knowing 
payments were being made to MBFS from the first payment in May 2018 but had taken no 
action. His reasoning was that the person who had the car was a business partner. Our 
investigator felt initially that Mr A had known what had happened and he could have taken 
action earlier.
Mr As wife, Mrs A, responded to the view and became Mr As representative. She explained 
 and provided evidence  that Mr A had suffered from moderate to severe depression since 
2017. Hed been taking medication and receiving counselling. However individuals had taken 
financial advantage of Mr A whilst he was vulnerable. One thing that had happened was that 
a hire purchase agreement was taken out in his name and a car supplied to two individuals 
who werent Mr A. Mrs A said shed been in touch with MBFS before Mr A contacted them in 
November 2018 but theyd not sorted things.
Our investigator reviewed the additional evidence and shared this with MBFS (although 
theyd received this information from Mr As solicitors). However this didnt make him change 
his mind overall. He felt it was unlikely that the agreement could have been taken out without 
Mr A initially being aware and having consented.
Mrs A, on her husbands behalf, asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
I completed a provisional decision on 3 August 2021. I came to a slightly different conclusion 
and confirmed Id be asking MBFS to repay money Mr A had paid to them without any 
recompense.
I received no response from MBFS. Mrs A confirmed her husband mainly accepted the 
outcome of the provisional decision. She also provided additional evidence to show Mr As 
legal and medical costs that had arisen since 2018. She believed his condition had been 
exacerbated by the treatment hed received from MBFS and believed they should also pay 
compensation.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did provisionally. Ill explain why.
The issue at the heart of this complaint is whether Mr A completed the hire purchase 
agreement or not? And even if he did whether he can be held liable?
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence from MBFS including the copy of 
Mr As passport that was available to the dealers when the agreement was being drawn up. 
Ive also taken note of the evidence Mrs A has provided about Mr As health. In addition 
shes provided some history and evidence of contact with the individuals who were driving 
around in the car from April 2018.  
I wont be repeating all the detail involved as a lot of this has already been covered in our 
investigators views of 8 January and 27 May 2021. I will, of course, be mentioning those 
aspects that are key to the decision Im making.
Firstly I dont think theres any doubt  nor has MBFS suggested  that Mr A ever used the 
car or had any benefit from it. Im aware it was in his possession from August 2018 after he 
wrested it from those whod been using it since April 2018. It wasnt until July 2019 that 
MBFS finally took possession. I dont think thats particularly Mr As fault as correspondence 
between Mr As solicitors and MBFSs suggest there was just a series of misunderstandings.
Im also aware MBFS accepted  once Mr A had solicitors involved  there was no evidence 
to show proper procedures were followed when the car was picked up. They also then 
agreed to mark the agreement as settled and took no further direct debit payments. So I 
think there is a distinct possibility that Mr A was never involved in meetings at the dealership, 
the choice of the car or signing the agreement. The agreement was signed electronically and 
Ive seen nothing to indicate this could only ever have been completed by Mr A.
Ive balanced this possibility with the fact that Mr As passport was definitely seen by the 
dealers so I have to wonder why on earth theyd not follow agreed procedures for identifying 
prospective purchasers. But its already accepted that they didnt follow agreed procedures 
for releasing the car so this obviously remains a distinct possibility.
Mrs A has been consistent and credible in her testimony on her husbands behalf. She has 
denied Mr A was at the dealership. She has also been able to show how the individuals we 
know had the car would have been able to obtain a copy of Mr As passport.
So overall I think its more than likely Mr A didnt take out the hire agreement, and therefore 
didnt allow someone else to use his car.
I would confirm, however, that even if Im proven to be wrong (so, for example, MBFS had 
been able to provide CCTV showing Mr A at the dealership), I would be deciding the same 
outcome as I outline below. I say this because of the evidence about Mr As mental health. 
Mr As doctor has confirmed Mr A is vulnerable from financial exploitation when unwell and 
his capacity to make financial decision is effected. In addition Mr A is not likely to have 
been able to understand, weight up and make a reasoned decision when unwell.
I appreciate that at the time of the agreement MBFS may not have been aware of Mr As 
personal situation but I cant ignore the medical evidence on this issue.
Putting things rightIn deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome, Im aware Mr A received £3,374 in 
payments from the people who took out the credit agreement. I believe he paid out £5,994 in 
six direct debit payments. I dont think its fair that Mr A is out of pocket here as Ive already 
decided that he didnt take out the agreement or benefit from the car. Im instructing MBFS to 
refund Mr A for money that he paid out (minus, of course, what hes already been 
reimbursed).
I think its also fair to ask MBFS to remove all the data about this credit agreement from 
Mr As credit record.
Ive carefully considered the additional evidence Mrs A provided to us on her husbands 
behalf. From this its clear that Mr A has had severe mental health issues for the last few 
years. I dont doubt that some of this has been exacerbated by what she sees as MBFSs 
intransigence. In fact the psychiatric report she shared with us states: Also learning that 
some people and financial institutions were in a position to help him but chose to disbelieve 
that he was ill has compounded his trauma.
However I think itd be unfair to ask MBFS to provide further compensation for Mr As costs. 
Mr A was very unfortunately a victim of fraud and the fallout from this  as confirmed by the 
medical evidence  has caused some of the complex PTSD hes been diagnosed with.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited to:
Refund £2,620 to Mr A for a hire purchase agreement he didnt take out; 
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 15 October 2018 (the date of the last 
direct debit payment) to the date of settlement; and
Remove any data related to this hire purchase agreement from Mr As credit record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman