DRN-2393960
The complaint
Mr R complains about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his travel 
insurance policy following cancellation of his journey. Reference to UKI includes reference to 
its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Subject to its terms and conditions, Mr Rs policy provides cover for certain expenses 
following cancellation of a journey. The policy excludes cover for expenses that Mr R 
can recover from elsewhere. 
The ski pass provider offered Mr R a credit voucher in relation to the ski pass he 
couldnt use following the cancellation of his journey planned for March 2020. That 
means that Mr R has recovered that expense from the ski pass provider. I appreciate 
that Mr R would prefer a cash refund and I can quite understand that, but his policy 
doesnt cover him for expenses that he cant recover in cash. In the circumstances 
that arose here, I dont think that UKI treated Mr R unfairly in relying on the exclusion 
in the policy.   
Mr R told the investigator that the credit note is for the 2020/2021 ski season. Events 
have moved on since the ski pass provider gave Mr R the voucher and travel is 
restricted again. In those circumstances wed expect Mr R to ask the ski pass 
provider to extend the terms of the voucher. If the ski pass provider refuses to do so, 
Mr R may ask UKI to reconsider his claim, taking into account that new information.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman