DRN-3667288
The complaint
Mr Cs complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc closed his account without notice, and 
caused him inconvenience. And hed like compensation for the impact on him. 
What happened
Mr C had an account with Bank of Ireland. In August 2020 Bank of Ireland asked Mr C 
questions regarding his account activity and identification documents. Mr C responded to 
Bank of Ireland and supplied the documents requested but the bank werent satisfied. And 
asked for further documentation. 
On 2 October 2020 Bank of Ireland advised Mr C if the documents they requested weren't 
provided, his account would be closed in 30 days. And on 5 November 2020 Bank of Ireland 
advised Mr C that the documents requested had been provided. However they weren't 
sufficient for Bank of Ireland and on 13 November 2020 they asked Mr C to provide further 
identification documents and verification. 
Mr Cs account was then closed without notice on 6 January 2021. And on the same day 
Bank of Ireland issued a cheque to Mr C for the account balance. 
Mr C received the cheque and the funds were credited to another of his accounts, a bank Ill 
call A, by 21 April 2021. 
Mr C complained to Bank of Ireland about their decision to close his account, and the delay 
in receiving his funds. Bank of Ireland reviewed Mr Cs complaint but they didnt uphold it. In 
summary they thought theyd given Mr C notice on 2 October 2020 of their intention to close 
his account if he didnt provide the necessary documents, and theyd acted fairly in closing 
his account without notice and sending a cheque. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with their response so brought his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigator's looked into Mr Cs case, and they thought that Bank of Ireland 
hadn't acted fairly. They thought Bank of Ireland hadn't communicated with Mr C clearly 
about the documents required, and shouldn't have closed his account without further 
contact. They recommended Bank of Ireland pay 8% on the funds sent to Mr C from 
6 January 2021 to 21 April 2021.
Bank of Ireland didn't agree - they said they'd explained to Mr C his account may be closed if 
they didn't receive the relevant documentation. And due to global pandemic and unexpected
sickness their service levels were impacted.
On picking up Mr Cs decision I reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. I 
explained that I didnt think Bank of Ireland had acted fairly in failing to give Mr C 60 days 
notice of the closure of his account. But I couldnt hold Bank of Ireland responsible for Mr C 
not getting access to his funds until 21 April 2021. I recommended that Bank of Ireland pay 
Mr C £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused to him. 
Bank of Ireland accepted my recommendation but Mr C didnt. He said:
He was outside the United Kingdom at the time the cheque was issued and his family 
members were vulnerable
Because of the size of the cheque it delayed crediting his account
Bank of Ireland should have responded more quickly to A
As Mr C didnt agree Ive reconsidered my conclusion below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Ireland have accepted they should have provided Mr C 60 days notice when closing 
his account so Ill only cover this briefly. Bank of Ireland advised Mr C if he didnt provide the 
documents within 30 days theyd close his account, but on 5 November 2020 they advised 
him theyd received the documents. Im satisfied this ended the notice period given by Bank 
of Ireland  and theyve not given any further reasoning for why Mr Cs account was closed 
without notice.  
I've thought about appropriate compensation for this. Ive seen a copy of the cheque and Im 
satisfied it was issued on 7 January 2021 and paid to A on 19 April 2021. Mr C explained 
that the cheque was deposited with A on 19 February 2021. Mr C says that the delay 
occurred due to him being out of the United Kingdom, the global pandemic and the 
vulnerability of his family members. I understand that the pandemic made it more difficult for 
Mr Cs cheque to be deposited  however the cheque was sent to Mr Cs registered address, 
and family members were present. Ive thought about the contact Bank of Ireland received 
from A regarding the cheque. And Ive seen a statement from the branch manager at Bank 
of Ireland who advises he didnt receive any contact from A prior to the cheque being paid on 
19 April 2021. Having done so Ive not seen any evidence that Bank of Ireland delayed the 
crediting of Mr Cs cheque, and Im not able to hold Bank of Ireland responsible for As 
cheque clearing processes.
Ive considered Mr Cs arguments but on balance I cant hold Bank of Ireland solely 
responsible for the delay in him getting access to his funds. Therefore I dont think 8% 
interest for the entire period Mr C was without his funds is fair. 
Overall, I think Mr C was caused inconvenience by Bank of Irelands actions. If they'd given 
Mr C 60 days' notice, as I'd expect, he would have been provided with the opportunity to 
switch or move his banking facilities to another provider. Instead Mr C was caused 
inconvenience in making arrangements for his cheque to be deposited without any prior 
warning. And this likely impacted on his building project in Ireland. 
Putting things right
I think Bank of Ireland should compensate Mr C £500 for the inconvenience caused to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Bank of Ireland (UK) plc to:
Pay Mr C £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman