DRN-1466932
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc declined his application for a credit card 
despite telling him he had 100% chance of being approved. Hed like the record of this 
removed from his credit file.
What happened
Mr P applied for a credit card with Capital One in May 2019. He did this as hed been told his 
application was pre-approved. He then received an email to say that his application had 
been approved, and he would soon receive his credit card.
But Capital One carried out some further checks which then led to it declining Mr Ps 
application. This decision was then recorded on Mr P's credit record as part of the searches
Capital One had carried out.
Mr P complained as he said he'd made the application after being told he had 100% chance 
of being approved for it. He felt that the searches recorded on his credit record would have a 
negative impact.
Capital One said that at the time of the pre-approval, it had explained that the card would be 
issued when further checks were passed. And it was on completion of these checks that it 
decided not to offer Mr P the card. But it agreed that it would remove the credit search it had 
carried out as part of the checks from Mr Ps credit file.
However, it found that shortly after completing this application online, Mr P had made a 
second application. Its systems had cancelled this as the first application had been in 
progress at that time, but this too had left a search on Mr Ps credit file. Capital One said it 
would also remove this search record.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. She said 
that Capital One was entitled to base any decision to offer credit to a customer based on the 
full information about them, even though Mr P had been pre-approved for it. She said Capital 
One had agreed to remove the records of the two applications from Mr Ps credit record but 
this could take four to six weeks to update. The investigator thought Capital One had acted 
reasonably.
But Mr P said his application had been approved  hed received an email to confirm this. He 
also said that his credit information hadn't shown that Capital One had removed the second 
search and this was adding to the stress he'd experienced.
The investigator then reviewed the complaint as she felt that Mr P hadn't been provided with 
clear information about his credit card application. She thought the disappointment and 
upset he was caused when he learnt it was being declined might not have happened if
Capital One had finished its checks before communicating a decision on the application.A credit search had been removed from Mr P's credit record in September 2019, and the 
investigator thought it was likely that this was the Capital One record. But she said she 
wasn't able to find out what was on Mr P's full report and Capital One had said it had 
removed both searches. She thought Capital One should've told Mr P about the cancellation 
of the second application because it couldn't process two applications at the same time, and 
it shouldn't have carried out that second search because of this. She said Capital One 
should pay Mr P £100 to recognise the upset and inconvenience this caused him.
Mr P didn't think that £100 was enough and said he thought £500 was a fairer amount.
Capital One didn't agree that a payment of £100 was warranted. It said it was able to decline 
an application at any time if it didn't pass the further checks done when processing that 
application. It said that it hadn't been aware that Mr P had completed a second application 
when it first looked at his complaint, and this was why the request to remove the related 
search had been made later than for the first.
My first provisional decision
I said that Capital One was entitled to make a decision about who it's willing to offer a credit 
facility to. And, after making further checks into Mr P's application, it decided not to offer him 
a credit card. 
However, I agreed with the investigator in that letting Mr P know by email that his application 
had been approved and that he would soon get his card would've given him the reasonable 
expectation that he'd been successful. So I thought that to then find out that this wasn't the 
case is likely to have caused him upset, confusion and disappointment. And it's likely that 
this could've been avoided if the outcome had been communicated to him at the end of 
Capital One's checking process.
So I said Capital One should pay Mr P £100 to recognise the upset and inconvenience this 
caused him. I said I appreciated that Mr P feels that a higher amount should be awarded, but 
I thought £100 was fair in the circumstances.
Turning to the matter of the searches on Mr P's credit record, I said I understood that the 
record of the first application had already been removed. However, this was requested 
earlier in the complaint process as Capital One hadn't initially realised that a second 
application had been made so soon after the first. It seemed likely that this second search 
would've happened as part of the application process. And it's this particular search that Mr 
P didnt believe had been removed.
I reviewed all the screen shots Mr P sent us which show his credit rating and an overview of 
any changes to his credit report in a given month. And these didnt specifically show that this 
second search had been removed by Capital One. But I also didnt think that they gave me 
enough information to say with certainty that it hadn't been removed.
I said that I knew that Mr P wasnt able to access his full credit report through the mobile app 
he uses. But I said I would need to see this in order to show that Capital One hadn't 
removed the search as it agreed to, especially as I could see that it did request this. So I 
said that I couldnt say that Capital One needed to take further action, when I couldnt see 
that it hadn't already done what it said it would.
I said if Mr P wished to provide a copy of his full credit report in response, then I would be 
able to take this into account.
Capital One initially responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.However, Mr P provided the full copy of his credit report which showed that the second credit 
search hadnt been removed as Capital One had said. This information was given to Capital 
One and it responded to say that it had made a further request for the search to be removed, 
and that this may take up to six weeks to update. It said that it would be willing to increase 
the compensation amount to £150 to recognise this.
Mr P didnt accept that this was enough to compensate him. He felt enough time had passed 
that the six weeks wasnt acceptable.
My second provisional decision
Because the information provided changed the position of the complaint from where it was 
since my first provisional decision, I issued a second provisional decision in January 2020.
In my first provisional decision, I had said that Capital One should pay Mr P £100 to 
recognise the upset, inconvenience and confusion that Capital Ones communication with Mr 
P about the success of his application wouldve caused him.
Whether the credit search from the second application had been removed or not was a 
separate matter, and it was shown that this wasnt removed by Capital One as it had said. I 
said that although Capital One had now made the request for this to be removed, that it 
had remained on Mr Ps credit record had caused him additional stress and upset.
Having looked through the historic snapshots of his credit score that Mr P provided, I could 
see that this stayed constant through the period when searches from other companies were 
being both added and removed. So although I could understand Mr Ps feelings about this 
Capital One search still showing, I didn't think I could say with any certainty that it alone 
would have had a negative or detrimental impact on his ability to apply for forms of credit 
when his credit score stayed at the same level despite updates with the removal or addition 
of other searches on his record.
But I said I appreciated that the credit search not being removed as Capital One had agreed 
had caused Mr P further worry and distress, and hed needed to show that his credit record
hadnt been updated. It would also take time to update, which is the process for making such 
changes, when this situation couldve been resolved for him some time ago if the removal 
had been properly processed when it was originally agreed.
So I said I thought an additional payment of £100 specifically for the worry and upset caused 
through the time this search had remained on his credit record would fairly compensate Mr 
P, in addition to the £100 already agreed. For clarity, I said this would mean Capital One 
making Mr P a total payment of £200. 
The responses
Mr P said that Capital One had gone up £150 when Id only awarded an extra £50. He said 
my maths was wrong as £150 and £100 was £250, not £200, but this was still too low. He 
didnt think that anything less than £500 would be acceptable, and he feels that I havent 
helped him and have made his situation worse.
Capital One responded to say that it would agree to pay Mr P £200, as I recommended in 
my second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry that Mr P has been unhappy with the conclusions I've reached. I would look to 
reassure him that I've carefully reviewed all that happened and all that both he and Capital 
One have said, taking this into account before reaching my decision.
And having done this, my findings remain as I set out in my second provisional decision in 
that I think Capital One should pay Mr P £200 as a fair reflection of the upset and 
inconvenience he's been caused both through the communication about his credit card 
application outcome and because of the delay in the removal of the second credit search 
from his credit record. 
Putting things right
I should clarify that Capital One had offered to increase it's original agreed £100 
compensation payment to £150. It wasn't that it offered £150 as an additional payment, on 
top of the £100. However, I consider that an overall payment of £200 is a fairer settlement to 
this complaint. I do acknowledge that this is less than Mr P feels he would be willing to 
accept, but I've reached the conclusion that £200 is fair compensation to recognise the upset 
and inconvenience he was caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Capital One (Europe) plc to pay Mr P 
a total of £200 for the upset hes been caused and the trouble hes been put to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman