DRN-1653408
The complaint
Mr N has complained that TransferWise Ltd failed to process a deposit he made to his 
account, meaning he didnt have access to these funds whilst on holiday.
What happened
Mr N has a Borderless account with TransferWise. On 2 December 2019 he attempted to 
deposit cash in his account. This was so he could access the funds whilst on holiday abroad 
from 5 December to 8 December 2019. TransferWise initially told Mr N that it couldnt accept 
cash deposits, although it would make an exception for him on this occasion. It asked for 
photo identification (ID) and later for further information about the deposit, which Mr N 
provided.
Mr N raised a complaint on 6 December 2019 as he hadnt received his money  he said 
hed been misled about how money could be transferred. He added that this had caused him 
severe distress, that hed been unable to enjoy his holiday and that he'd had to cancel plans 
due to a lack of funds.
On 7 December 2019 TransferWise told Mr N it couldnt complete the transaction as it wasnt 
satisfied about the source of the funds. So, it arranged to refund the amount to Mr Ns 
account. The refund was received on 10 December 2019.
TransferWise didnt agree with the complaint. It said the online process was clear about how 
funds could be transferred to an account. It thought it had acted fairly by offering to make an 
exception but ultimately it still had to follow procedures and it wasnt satisfied with the 
information provided about the deposit. Mr N referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended TransferWise pay Mr N £150 
compensation. She thought TransferWise shouldve made it clear to Mr N that there wasnt a 
guarantee that the deposit could be processed. Had they done so, the investigator thought 
Mr N wouldve asked for a refund instead. She thought this had caused Mr N some 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience whilst on holiday.
Mr N didnt accept this  he thought the compensation should be much higher as it had 
ruined his holiday with his mother and had caused them severe distress and inconvenience. 
Although TransferWise didnt think it had done anything wrong it agreed to pay the 
compensation to settle the matter. As no agreement could be reached the complaint was 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, but I don't think TransferWise needs to pay more than 
£150. Ill explain why.I should start by saying that I dont think the information on TransferWises website about 
how to transfer money to the account was misleading. TransferWise has shared screenshots 
of the steps Mr N wouldve taken when setting up the transaction. This shows Mr N wouldve 
been given three options to transfer money  by credit card, debit card or by manually 
transferring the money from his bank account. He wouldve also needed to confirm he was 
sending money from his own bank account. By trying to deposit cash directly to 
TransferWises account, I think Mr N wouldve understood he wasnt sending money from his 
own bank account. So, I dont think TransferWise is responsible for the initial mistake.
TransferWise offered, as a gesture of goodwill, to process Mr Ns instructions if he was able 
to provide photo ID. TransferWise implied that it could proceed with the transaction if this 
was provided. However, further checks wouldve always been necessary before the 
transaction could be completed, so I think this ought to have been made clear to Mr N. I can 
see Mr N was initially hesitant to provide the information requested. So, if had it been 
explained to him there wasnt a guarantee the transaction would be completed, and given he 
needed access to this money for his holiday, I think he wouldve asked for a refund instead. 
For this reason, I think TransferWises actions have had an impact on Mr N and so I have to 
decide what amount of compensation is fair in the circumstances.
In order to do this I also have to take Mr Ns actions into account, as generally I would 
expect a customer to attempt to mitigate their circumstances. Mr N has shown us that he 
departed for his holiday on the evening of 5 December 2019, returning on 8 December 2019. 
He tells us he only had a small sum of cash on him, as he was expecting to be able to 
access his other funds through his Borderless account. As he didnt have access to this 
money throughout this time, he says he had to cancel plans to visit sights, causing a 
negative experience whilst away.
Ive considered this carefully, but overall, I think the £150 recommended by the investigator 
is fair. I say this because although Mr N was relying on the funds hed attempted to transfer, 
when he departed for his holiday he knew this hadnt been completed. I would expect 
anyone travelling abroad to ensure they had access to funds in a number of different ways, 
such as through bank accounts, debit cards or credit cards, should any unforeseen 
circumstances arise. But in Mr Ns circumstances this wouldve been particularly important. 
He knew he didnt yet have access to the funds in his Borderless account and he only had a 
small sum in cash  any further delay with the funds would likely mean he wouldnt have had 
access to it at all during his short trip. Mr N had time to make alternative arrangements, so I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for him to do so to ensure he had sufficient funds for his 
trip  he hasnt told us he didnt have any other money at all.
Mr N has said that £150 isnt enough to compensate him and his mother. But I can only 
consider the impact on Mr N as only he is TransferWises customer. Hes also listed potential 
consequences of TransferWises actions, such as being unable to pay for medical treatment 
if the need arose. But I dont think its reasonable to take into account what might have 
happened  fortunately Mr N and his mother didnt require any medical treatment.
I appreciate why Mr N feels TransferWise should pay him more than £150. But I think he 
couldve taken steps to lessen the impact of what happened here and the initial mistake was 
his. So, I think £150 is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
TransferWise Ltd should pay Mr N £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused when 
handling his request to process a cash deposit.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
TransferWise Ltd should pay Mr N £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman