DRN-2453432
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
The policy was sold by third party. But Allianz has taken responsibility for the sale and by 
extension this complaint. 
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to Allianz in my decision.
What happened
Mrs M took out a personal reserve account in 1996. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy. This would have covered her if she was off work because of accident, sickness or if 
she lost her job. 
The policy would have cost 65p for every £100 of Mrs Ms outstanding monthly balance. On 
making a successful claim it most likely would have paid out 15% of that balance each 
month until she returned to work, or the balance was paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with this view 
and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive thought about what both parties have told me and taken into account what we know 
about these types of sales at the time to make my decision. Ive also been able to see a 
sample application form provided to me by Allianz. On this form is a separate section for PPI 
and there is a tick box. So, when I see this, I can see that PPI was shown as optional on this 
form. On balance, I think it is more likely Mrs M would have been given a choice and she 
could have declined it (by not ticking the box on the application form) if she didnt want the 
cover.
I dont think Mrs M would have received advice about the PPI, as she applied for the account 
and insurance in a store most likely by completing a leaflet. So as Allianz didnt recommend 
PPI to Mrs M it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. But it still needed to give Mrs M 
enough information to allow him to make an informed decision about whether or not to buy 
the policy. 
Its possible not all the information Allianz gave to Mrs M was as clear as it should have 
been. But even if she had been given clearer or better information, I still think she would 
have bought the cover. 
I say this because Mrs M was eligible for the policy. And it doesnt seem she wouldve been 
affected by any of the exclusions or limitations of the policy which might have made it more 
difficult to make a successful claim, such as unusual employment circumstances or a       
pre-existing medical condition. 
 
Mrs M says shed have 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay that she could have used if 
she became too unwell to work. But the policy wouldve paid out until Mrs Ms outstanding 
balance at the time of the claim was repaid, or until she went back to work. So, I think the 
policy couldve been useful to her if things went wrong as it would have paid out for an 
extended period of time. 
I also think the cover was affordable. So, I cant see that clearer information about the costs 
and benefit wouldve put Mrs M off taking the policy.
So overall, I dont think better information wouldve changed Mrs Ms mind about the PPI. 
And I dont think she lost out because of anything Allianz did wrong. So, I dont think it needs 
to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman