DRN-2255703
The complaint
Ms P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance plc (RSA) is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms P had a policy branded with the name of a supermarket. RSA was the insurer 
responsible for dealing with claims under the buildings section of the policy.
In May 2019 Ms Ps water supply company told her there was a leak, probably under her 
floor.  
Ms P complains that RSA told her it would cover digging up the floor, fixing the leak and 
replacing the floor but  months after its contractors dug up the floor in September 2019  
RSA said it wouldnt cover replacement.
Ms P wrote a letter of complaint to RSA dated 6 January 2020. RSA didnt send a final 
response. Ms P brought her complaint to us on about 3 March 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
RSA had acted unfairly by declining the claim as the policy didnt cover it. 
She also thought that RSA compensated Ms P fairly by offering £100.00 in total for not 
calling her back several times and not being able to locate a relevant call recording.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms P 
and to British Gas on 4 September 2020. I summarise my findings:
I found RSA responsible for the actions of the leak detection company which Ms P 
reasonably believed to be authorised by RSA.
Subject to any further information from Ms P or from RSA, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Royal & Sun Alliance plc to 
pay Ms P (or cause the leak detection company to pay her) in addition to its offer of £100.00:
1. £1,500.00 for damage to her flooring; and
2. £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Ms P disagrees with the provisional decision. Her solicitors say, in summary, the following:
Had she been told at the outset by her insurers that her policy did not cover 
reinstatement of her flooring, then Ms P would not have agreed to the drainage 
company cutting through her flooring before further investigations were done by them 
with sound equipment. 
As a result of the fault of her insurers and the drainage company the flooring now 
requires to be replaced. 
Ms P has obtained a quote for the work for £3,510.00. 
As a matter of Scots Law, the insurers should be found liable for all of the losses 
sustained by Ms P flowing naturally and in consequence from the fault of the insurers 
and their drainage company.
Ms P is seeking reimbursement in full for the cost to repair the flooring of £3,510.00 
together with compensation for the distress and inconvenience which she has 
suffered. 
Given this matter has been ongoing for months and she has had to pursue the matter 
through her insurers and then through the Ombudsman, and that she has had 
temporary flooring in her kitchen for many months, a more reasonable figure for 
compensation would be in the region of £500.00. 
RSA hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms booklet included a section on home emergency cover, under which an 
insurance company other than RSA was responsible for dealing with claims. But the home 
emergency cover was an optional extra and I havent seen a policy schedule showing that 
Ms P had such cover.
In any event, the Financial Ombudsman Service can only deal with a consumer complaint 
against one insurance company at a time. And Im dealing with a complaint against RSA not 
the other insurance company. So Im not concerned with the home emergency cover or its 
exclusion of the following:
damage caused gaining necessary access to, or in reinstating the fabric of, your 
home. 
Its common ground that Ms P had buildings cover under which RSA was responsible for 
dealing with claims. That cover included damage caused by escape of water from a fixed 
pipe. But it excluded the following:
The cost of removing, repairing or replacing the home in which you live in order to 
locate the source of the escape of water 
So the buildings cover didnt cover tracing and accessing the source of a leak. And  in the 
absence of water damage to the floor  the buildings cover didnt cover repairing a floor that 
had been dug up to find and fix a leak.
It follows that RSA shouldve declined to help Ms P find and fix the leak and replace the 
flooring. But thats not what happened.Its file shows that Ms P first called RSA for help on 22 May 2019. RSA hasnt provided a 
recording of that call. But it has provided recordings of calls on 11 and 13 June 2019. From 
those calls, and from its file, I dont find that RSA told Ms P at that time that she was 
covered. 
But Ms P reported the problem as accurately as she could. She didnt report any water 
damage. So she was reporting a trace and access problem. 
RSA instructed the leak detection company. From what RSA has said, the leak detection 
company had delegated authority from RSA. 
The leak detection company instructed an enabling company to do the digging. One of 
those companies reported that in Ms Ps dining area there was some duct tape on the oak 
flooring which had been laid (without thresholds) throughout the ground floor.
Ms Ps summary and RSAs file show that there was concern about relaying the flooring.
The digging through part of the kitchen floor took place in September 2019. So RSA 
(including the leak detection company on its behalf) mustve thought Ms P was covered for 
trace and access  and communicated that to her.
RSA has said this indoor work fixed the leak. But Ms Ps summary says that it didnt. And I 
accept her statement that the leak detection company found and fixed the leak in mid-
October  outside the house.
The leak detection company produced a scope of works document including re-flooring of 
the ground floor. The total  including some provisional sums - was over £21,000.00 
including VAT. The leak detection company sought RSAs approval for the works. So I 
accept Ms Ps statement that the company had led her to expect that RSA would replace her 
flooring.
It was only at that point that RSA involved a loss adjuster who pointed out that there had 
been no trace and access cover.
 
RSA didnt always return calls when it should have. And it couldnt find the recording of the 
call on 22 May 2019. But it paid £75.00 compensation and offered a further £25.00.
After Ms Ps letter of complaint in early January, the rules required RSA to send a final 
response within eight weeks. It didnt send a final response in that period - or at all. But that 
didnt delay Ms P from bringing her complaint to us.
RSAs position is summarised as follows:
[the leak detection company] carried out works to the customer property without 
checking her policy.
[the leak detection company] have admitted their error and agreed to take all 
responsibility for rectifying the damage themselves.
I have explained to the customer as the contractor who completed the uninsured 
trace and access work is responsible for any rectification of the damage.
Finally [the leak detection company] have advised they will replace the hardwood 
flooring in the customers kitchen where trace and access was undertaken but have 
refused to replace the flooring throughout the ground floor.However, I find RSA responsible for the actions of the leak detection company which Ms P 
reasonably believed to be authorised by RSA.  
Putting things right
Ive thought about the most fair and reasonable way to try to put Ms P in the financial 
position she shouldve been in if RSA had said at the outset that she didnt have trace and 
access cover.
I dont find it likely that Ms P wouldve risked water damage and wasted water. So she 
wouldve had to pay another leak detection company to trace and access the leak. And 
unless that company found water damage, she wouldve had to pay to fill in any holes and 
repair any surface coverings.
I appreciate that tracing and accessing a leak sometimes involves digging multiple holes, 
some of which turn out not to reveal a leak.
But I keep in mind that Ms P was concerned about relaying the flooring. So  in the absence 
of trace and access cover - I find it likely that another leak detection company wouldve done 
more investigation and found the leak outside the house without digging up the kitchen floor.
Ive looked at the detail of the leak detection companys scope of works including the rates 
for flooring. Even Ms P regards the figure of over £21,000.00 as too high. She has pointed 
out that the scope of works doesnt need to include removal of kitchen units. 
More recently, Ms P has sent us a flooring companys quotation for £3,510.00. From what 
her solicitors have said, I find it likely that the quotation is for the whole of the ground floor.
I keep in mind that her flooring wasnt new. Ive seen some photographs of its condition 
including areas away from the kitchen.
And  even if she had have had trace and access cover  I find it likely that a floor repair 
wouldve been limited to the kitchen only. I say that notwithstanding the previous absence of 
thresholds between the kitchen and other areas.
Weighing up all these factors and keeping in mind the extent of the loss I see as flowing 
naturally and in consequence from the fault of the drainage company, I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct RSA to pay £1,500.00 for damage to Ms Ps flooring. 
I consider that  by mishandling her claim  RSA caused Ms P unnecessary extra 
inconvenience and distress at an already difficult time for her. I find it fair and reasonable to 
direct RSA to pay her  in addition to its offer of £100.00  a further £200.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance plc to pay Ms P (or cause the leak detection company to pay 
her) in addition to its offer of £100.00:
1. £1,500.00 for damage to her flooring; and
2. £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman