DRN-4393807
The complaint
Ms H complains about the service she received from Rock Insurance Services Limited after 
she took out a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H took out a single trip travel insurance policy through Rock, and paid a premium of £28. 
During a later conversation with Rock, she asked if a sporting activity that she intended to do 
on her trip would be covered. Ms H says Rock couldnt provide her with a timely answer on 
this, despite her chasing this several times. She therefore took out alternative cover with 
another insurer. She wanted Rock to reimburse her £28 premium, and brought her complaint 
to this Service.
Rock didnt respond to this Services requests for its file papers that were made on 19 May 
2023, 15 August 2023, and 18 September 2023. Our investigator therefore issued his 
findings based on the information provided by Ms H. He thought Rock had provided a poor 
service to Ms H and recommended it pay her £50 compensation. However, he thought Ms H 
should contact the insurer to request a refund of her premium. 
Ms H accepted our investigators findings, but Rock didnt respond. The matter has therefore 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Rock hasnt provided its file papers, Ive considered this matter based on the information 
provided by Ms H.
I agree with our investigator that Ms H was caused unnecessary inconvenience by Rocks 
handling of the matter. I dont know if Ms Hs policy would have covered her for the particular 
sporting activity, as Rock couldnt confirm or deny this. Ms H says she chased Rock a 
number of times, but it couldnt give her an answer. It may be that Rock ought to have 
referred Ms H directly to the insurer to check this, but based on what Ms H says, it didnt do 
so. I find that Rock should pay Ms H £50 compensation for the inconvenience she was 
caused.
As Ms H was understandably worried about whether or not she had cover for her trip, she 
took out a policy with a different insurer. As this was a direct result of Rocks poor handling 
of the matter, I also require it to reimburse her the £28 premium, plus interest. We told Rock 
this and gave it the opportunity to comment, but it didnt respond by the deadline given. Ms H 
confirmed to us that she hadnt obtained a refund of the premium from the insurer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Rock Insurance Services Limited to 
do the following:
- pay Ms H £50 compensation
- reimburse Ms H the £28 premium, plus interest* at the rate of 8% simple per annum 
from the date the premium was paid to the date of settlement.
If Rock considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms H how much its taken off. It should also give Ms H a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman