DRN-3902199
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined their 
claim for storm damage and that it wont pay their costs for trace and access and damage to 
their property incurred during that procedure.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr and Mrs O reported a claim to RSA  heavy rain had leaked into their 
boiler room causing the boiler to be put out and damage to the walls. Initially the claim was 
made under the home emergency part of the policy. RSA sent out an engineer and at that 
stage it was believed that there was a leak from the WC. Mr and Mrs O were advised trace 
and access under the main buildings policy would need to be carried out. RSA sent out a 
further engineer who identified that the leak was likely to be from the soil stack. In the course 
of this that engineer removed some sealant from around the toilet and bath. He advised the 
area would need stripping out, and the leak fixed. Mr and Mrs O understood that they would 
have to arrange this so they employed their own contractor to do this. The same company 
they employed to do this also carried out repairs to the roof
RSA chased up Mr and Mrs O for the costs from their contractor. When they sent it to RSA 
in March 2021 the report advised that there was in fact no leak on any of the pipework. And 
the report from the roofer indicated that there was damage to the roof, but RSA didnt 
consider that this was due to a storm. And as the policy excluded damage by water entering 
the home other than by storm or flood, in respect of accidental damage, RSA declined the 
claim. And as no leak was found it couldnt pay the trace and access costs.
Mr O believed that RSAs contractor had misdiagnosed the leak as he said the damage was 
caused by rainwater due to a storm, so the removal of the seal around the bath and WC was 
negligent  this caused damage to the boiler room below. And some months later water 
coming out of the bath escaped into the gap caused by the removal of the seal causing more 
damage to the boiler room and timer switch. He believes that RSA should pay for the 
unnecessary trace and access cost and for the further damage, with compensation.
Our Investigator ultimately found that RSA and/or its agents were not negligent and that RSA 
didnt need to make any further payments in respect of the claim.
Mr O disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all Mr O has provided substantial details to us with his evidence. I appreciate his 
input. Although Ive considered it thoroughly I wont respond to it point by point.
storm
Mr and Mrs O assert that there was a storm and that this was the cause of the damage to 
the roof and to the internal parts of their property.
As our Investigator said, when considering complaints about claims for storm damage we 
ask three questions, and its only if the answer to all three of those questions is yes that 
wed be likely to uphold the complaint. The questions are:
1.  Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to     
have happened?
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
With regard to the first question, storm conditions have to have happened at or around the 
time the damage was alleged to have occurred. Theres no definition of storm in the policy, 
however we say that a storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, 
hail or snow. Here I have looked at the weather records at and before the damage was said 
to have occurred but found there to be no wind in excess of 22 mph. Rainfall alone doesnt 
usually constitute storm conditions unless it was of exceptional or unusual intensity. Ive 
checked the weather records for this also, and although there was clearly rainfall at the time, 
up to 4.4 mm in a hour, it wasnt in my view sufficiently intense to constitute storm without 
accompanying high winds.
It appears that the damage to the roof wasnt caused by a storm. The report from the 
contractor refers to raking out defective mortar, replacing damaged guttering and replacing 
slipped tiles. I dont think any of those issues would have been caused by the sort of weather 
I and our investigator saw in the records.
Damage was also caused by rainfall coming in. Although this couldnt be covered under a 
storm claim, it could possibly be accidental damage. But the cover for this in the policy has 
an exclusion for Damage by water entering your home other than by storm or flood. This 
applies to both buildings and contents. If, as seem to be the case the damage was caused 
by water entering the home other than by storm or flood, it was reasonable of RSA to decline 
the claim.
misdiagnosis of leak, negligence of engineer
Mr O says that he made it clear that the damage was caused by rain so any investigation of 
a leak was unnecessary. And he says the engineers diagnosis that there was a leak in the 
soil pipe was wrong and caused him to have unnecessary work carried out. He further says 
that the engineers removal of the seal around the WC and the bath caused damage to the 
boiler room below both after the engineers visit and some months later due to bathwater 
overflowing into the gap.
Firstly I do understand that Mr and Mrs O reported this as storm damage. But when the 
engineer visited the property it was reported that there was a smell coming from the area 
near the WC. And when the area was being inspected Mr Os son used a toilet causing 
water to come out where the contractor was. While I understand that Mr O has given us his 
explanation for this I think it was not unreasonable for the engineer in question to believe 
there was a leak in that area. He recommended strip out to get to the soil stack, which he 
wasnt in a position to undertake. Again I cant say that was negligent. Mr O has said that the 
engineer should have done a chemical analysis of the water but I dont know what that would have shown, given that water came out at the time the toilet was flushed. I think all parties at 
the time believed there was a leak, and as Ive pointed out without there being a leak, the 
damage and the trace and access expense wouldnt have been covered. Ive considered the 
correspondence about this carefully but can find no evidence that RSA agreed to pay the 
trace and access costs whatever the outcome.
With regard to the removal of the seal, Mr O was told not to use the toilet until any leak had 
been fixed. He said he didnt until after his contractor had said there was no leak. But I 
regard the removal of the seal as part of the trace and access, so it wouldnt be reinstated 
until after the trace and access had been carried out. So I think this should have been done 
after the contractor had finished his work. After the claim in December 2020 there was a 
three month period when RSA was chasing Mr O for the invoice (on the assumption that a 
leak had been found and repaired). It is the policyholders duty to mitigate any possible loss 
so if Mr Os contractor hadnt replaced the seals Mr O should have at least notified RSA  it 
might have told him to get the seals replaced but at least it would have stopped any future 
damage. When the bath overflowed some months later Mr O was aware that the seal still 
hadnt been replaced. 
So I cant say that it was likely that RSAs engineer was negligent. I think at the time he was 
taking reasonable steps to establish whether there was a leak.
overall
I think that RSA fairly declined Mr and Mrs Os claim for storm damage. And I dont think that 
its engineers investigations of the area were negligently carried out.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman