DRN-4247247
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr S came across an advert for an investment company online. He says 
he had been thinking about investing, and so provided the company with his contact details. 
Mr S received a call the next day and was initially asked to pay £100 for training, which he 
paid from an account with another bank.
After some training sessions, the investor training him then told Mr S he needed to upgrade 
his account by sending £5,000 to a cryptocurrency exchange. Mr S tried to make this 
payment from his Monzo account, but it was blocked. Monzo contacted Mr S to ask some 
questions about the payment and warn him about possible scams. But ultimately, his 
account was unblocked and Mr S was able to make the payment again.
Unfortunately, we now know the investment company was a scam.
The scam was uncovered after Mr S asked to withdraw his money from the investment 
company. Mr S says the investor he was speaking to initially tried to persuade him not to 
withdraw, and then said he could make more lucrative trades if he left his money with the 
company. But Mr S then contacted the building the investment company had given as its 
address and was told it was a scam. He then reported the payment to Monzo and asked it to 
refund the money he had lost.
Monzo investigated but said it had followed its internal processes properly and offered Mr S 
appropriate advice before he made the payment. It also said it didnt think Mr S had taken 
enough steps to check who he was paying. So it didnt agree to refund the payment. Mr S 
wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They though Monzo could have done more 
after it blocked the payment to try to protect Mr S. But they also thought Mr S could have 
done more to prevent the loss. So they recommended Monzo refund 50% of the money Mr S 
had lost. Monzo didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is the payment overed by the CRM code?
Monzo initially assessed Mr Ss claim under the CRM code, so Ive first considered whether 
this code applies to the payment Mr S made.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) is a 
voluntary code which Monzo has said it is committed to applying the principles of. It sets out 
a number of circumstances in which firms are required to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of certain types of scam. But it only covers certain types of payments where 
a customer paid funds to another person for what they thought were legitimate purposes, but 
which were in fact fraudulent.
Mr S has said the payment he made was to buy cryptocurrency, which was then added to 
the balance showing on the trading platform he was given access to. I recognise that he only 
did this under the direction of the scammer. But the buying of cryptocurrency isnt one of the 
types of payments covered by the code. And the purchase of the cryptocurrency itself 
appears to have been genuine, as Mr S appears to have actually bought cryptocurrency 
before sending it on to the scammer. So the way the CRM code is written means that I dont 
think it applies to this payment.
Did Monzo do enough to protect Mr S?
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Mr S 
accepts he made the payment here. So while I recognise he didnt intend for the money to 
go to scammers, he did authorise the payment. And so the starting position in law is that 
Monzo was obliged to follow his instructions and make the payment. So Mr S isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
Even though I dont think the payment Mr S made is covered by the CRM code, the 
regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out requirements for 
banks to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Monzo did identify a risk of fraud as a result of this payment. It then stopped the payment, 
blocked Mr Ss account and contacted him to ask some questions and warn him about 
possible scams. So Ive considered whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr S here.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks Monzo should do or the questions it should ask. 
But banks should take steps designed to protect their customers from the risk of financial 
harm. And, in these circumstances and given the size of this payment, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect those checks to include questions about the purpose of the payment 
and then follow-up questions about the investments Mr S thought he was making.
After blocking his account, Monzo contacted Mr S via its in-app chat and asked him for some 
information about the payment. Mr S replied to say he was opening a trading account and 
had recently had some training in the area. And Monzo then asked a series of questions about the investment and what research Mr S had done into it  which I think was 
appropriate.
But after Mr S answered these questions, Monzo knew that he was investing using 
cryptocurrency, hadnt made any similar investment before and was being walked through 
the process by his own financial advisor. And as these are all features of well-known 
investment scams, I think Monzo should then have had significant concerns that Mr S was 
the victim of a scam.
Monzo asked further questions about how Mr S first came into contact with the financial 
advisor. But Mr Ss answers werent particularly detailed, so I dont think they should have 
been enough to satisfy the concerns Monzo should have had. Given what it knew at that 
time, I think Monzo should have asked more probing questions about the person Mr S said 
was helping him, what exactly he was investing in, any returns hed been told hed made 
already and whether hed been able to make any withdrawals from the investment. And I 
think Monzo shouldnt have unblocked the account until it got clear answers to these 
questions.
And if Monzo had asked more probing questions like these, I think it would have found out 
that Mr S had been contacted after seeing an advert online and hadnt made any 
withdrawals from the investment  which should only have increased its concerns.
As well as asking questions about the payment, Monzo gave Mr S a number of warnings 
about possible scams. And while these warnings did say legitimate investments never 
guarantee profit and arent arranged over social media, and that scammers can fabricate 
websites to show fake earnings  which was relevant to Mr Ss circumstances  there were 
also large parts of the warnings that werent relevant to Mr Ss circumstances and so will 
have made the warnings less impactful.
I also dont think the written warnings went far enough here. Given the information it should 
have got from Mr S, I think Monzo should have had significant concerns that he was the 
victim of a scam. And so I think it should have explained these concerns to Mr S  that, 
based on what hed said, he was likely the victim of a scam. And it should have given him 
specific advice on steps he could take to avoid falling victim to this type of scam and 
checked that he had carried out these steps before allowing the payment to proceed.
Mr S discovered the scam himself by later doing further checks. So if Monzo had been 
clearer about its concerns and checks he should do  as I think it should have been, I think 
Mr S would have followed this advice, the scam would have been uncovered and he 
wouldnt have made the payment or lost the £5,000. I therefore think it would be fair for 
Monzo to bear some responsibility for the money Mr S lost.
Should Mr S bear some responsibility for the money he lost?
Ive also thought about whether Mr S should bear some responsibility for the money he lost. 
And while I appreciate that this was a sophisticated scam, I think there were a number of 
things about it should have caused him significant concern.
Mr S first found out about the investment company from an advert on a video sharing 
website, which I dont think is a particularly reputable source for this kind of financial advice. 
Most of his communication with the investment company also appears to have been via an 
instant messaging app, which I wouldnt expect a legitimate investment company to use, and 
which one of the warnings Monzo showed him specifically warned against.Mr S doesnt appear to have been sent a contract, terms and conditions or paperwork for the 
investment or the work the investment company was doing for him. And Id expect a 
legitimate investment company to provide these, particularly when dealing with the amounts 
of money suggested here.
Mr S also doesnt appear to have done significant checks into who the investment company 
was, whether they were registered with the FCA  as Monzos warnings suggested, and 
whether the people he was speaking to were connected to the company. From the 
correspondence Ive seen, Mr S also doesnt appear to have a particularly clear 
understanding of the investments hes making, how they are generating profit or why he 
would need to send funds for the investment to a cryptocurrency exchange. And, given the 
amount of money he was trying to invest, I think its reasonable to expect him to have done 
more to check these things before going ahead.
I think all these things should have caused Mr S significant concern about whether what was 
happening or what he was being told was true. And so I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for him to bear some responsibility for the loss he suffered.
I therefore think both Mr S and Monzo should bear some responsibility, and so it would be 
fair for Monzo to refund 50% of the money Mr S lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Monzo Bank Ltd 
to:
Refund Mr S 50% of the money he lost  totalling £2,500
Pay 8% simple interest a year on that refund, from the date of the payment until the 
date of the refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman