DRN-2587412
The complaint
Ms A complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) wouldnt pay a claim she 
made under her motorcycle insurance policy when her motorcycle was stolen, and has 
voided her policy from the outset, that is treated it as of no effect from inception, and refused 
to return her premium. She is represented in bringing this complaint by her boyfriend, Mr G.
What happened
In January 2020, Ms A spoke on the phone with MCE and agreed to take out a policy 
covering her motorcycle. She confirmed the postcode of the address at which it would be 
kept, which was her boyfriends address.
 
She was asked: When the bike is parked or stored at the . address, where will it
be kept? Ms A answered A garage. MCE asked What is the structure of the garage? and 
she replied A solid building attached to the house.
Following the sale, Ms A was sent documents:
reminding her she had to take reasonable care to ensure she answered all questions 
honestly to the best of her knowledge and didnt misrepresent any answers, and
explaining that MCE had a clear definition of what was meant when a policyholder 
said a bike was garaged, and this didnt include Any building not built for housing 
motor vehicles such as a home or a workshop.
Ms A didnt contact MCE to change the information she had given. In May 2020, Ms As bike 
was stolen when she was using it elsewhere. She contacted MCE and claimed under her 
policy.
In the course of its investigations, MCE found that rather than storing the bike at her 
boyfriends address, Ms A was in the habit of keeping it inside his house at that address. It 
said she had been asked a clear question about storage, but Ms A had provided incorrect 
information, although she had been provided with a clear definition of what MCE meant by 
garaging.
MCE said if it had been aware of the true situation, it would have charged a higher premium. 
So it considered Ms A had made a qualifying misrepresentation for the purpose of the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which it 
deemed to be deliberate or reckless. It said that in accordance with the terms of CIDRA, it 
would avoid the insurance policy (that is treat it as of no effect from the outset), refuse all 
claims, and retain all the premiums she had paid.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Although Ms A 
argued that how she stored the bike was equally secure, and made no difference to how the 
theft was carried out, he said this wasnt relevant to her complaint.
The investigator said Ms A was asked a clear and open question at the time of the sale, and 
the answer she gave MCE at the time of the sale wasnt correct. Looking at the documents 
she was sent, he thought she ought to have realised that keeping the bike inside the home
didnt meet MCEs definition of a garage. That ought to have prompted her to tell MCE the
bike was actually being kept inside the house.
That being so, he was satisfied MCE had shown that:
Ms A knew the information she gave it was untrue or misleading, or she didnt care 
whether it was untrue or misleading; and 
she knew that where the vehicle was kept was relevant to MCE, or did not care 
whether or not it was relevant to them.
If MCE had been aware of the true position, he was satisfied it would have charged Ms A 
more for the policy. So under the provisions of CIDRA he was satisfied MCE was entitled to 
void the policy and keep the premiums, without considering her claim.
Ms A responded to say, in summary, that:
if the nature of the vehicle storage was so important to MCE, it should have checked 
this at the time the policy was taken out, not when a claim was made; and
if the policy was voided, she thought her premium should be refunded.
The investigator explained that an insurer wasnt required to check such information at the 
outset, provided it made its requirements clear, as MCE had in this case. And where a 
policyholder had made a misrepresentation recklessly, as he thought Ms A had, CIDRA 
didnt require an insurer to return any premiums. It was only where the misrepresentation 
was made carelessly that the premiums would be refunded.
Ms A also said:
she hadnt set out to provide false information; the bike had indeed been kept in a 
garage directly opposite her boyfriends house as originally intended, or in his house 
when he was working on it every now and again, which she viewed as equally 
secure;
from internet checks she and her boyfriend had made beforehand they thought 
storage in the house was acceptable to insurers as garaging, as witnessed by the 
following quote:
'Every insurer is different in what they will allow to be classified as a garage. The 
most common types that are acceptable must be brick built, with a concrete base, 
four walls, a roof and lockable point of entry.
Now some insurers will accept a wooden shed or a metal bike shed, providing that 
they are securely locked and permanently fixed to the ground'; and
she had always taken great care of her bike, including when parking it overnight. 
While she acknowledged she might have been careless in considering what definition 
of garage was acceptable to MCE, she didnt accept she had behaved recklessly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At my request, the investigator asked Ms A if she could provide any evidence of the extent to 
which her bike was stored in the garage and elsewhere. Mr G responded to say that the bike 
was kept partly in the garage (which belonged to a nearby neighbour), partly in Mr Gs 
house, and partly in his wooden garden shed secured to the concrete floor. He couldnt 
provide any further evidence as to the storage.
When provided with this information, MCE provided evidence from its underwriters that if it 
had been told of these storage arrangements at the outset this would still have resulted in 
Ms A being charged more for her policy. MCE reiterated that when applying on the phone for 
the policy Ms A was asked an open question about where the bike would be stored. She had 
the opportunity to give correct and exact details of this but failed to do so.
I think Ms A had two opportunities to explain the storage arrangements accurately to MCE. 
As well as the initial phone conversation, she was sent documents explaining the importance 
to MCE of her providing accurate information, and describing exactly what it understood by a 
bike being garaged. However, she failed to tell MCE what the actual storage arrangements 
were to be.
When it investigated the storage arrangements after the theft of the bike MCE concluded 
that Ms A had misrepresented the storage arrangements either deliberately or recklessly, 
and if it had known the true position it would have charged more for the policy. It said that in 
accordance with the terms of CIDRA, it would avoid the insurance policy (that is treat it as of 
no effect from the outset), refuse all claims, and retain all the premiums Ms A had paid.
Having considered all the circumstances, I cant say that MCE acted unreasonably in 
deciding that Ms As misrepresentation of the storage arrangements was more than just 
careless, and was either deliberate or reckless. Im satisfied that had it known the true 
position it would have charged more for the policy. That being so, I conclude it was entitled 
under the terms of CIDRA to avoid the policy, as it has done, refuse Ms As claim, and retain 
the premiums she has paid. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against MCE Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman