DRN-1339350
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy the amount he had to pay to Just Retirement Limited (JUST) to pay off part 
of his lifetime mortgage was higher than the amount hed been quoted, and his balance 
didnt reduce as much as he thought it would. 
What happened
Mr A took out a lifetime mortgage with JUST for around £436,000 in July 2016.
In May 2019 JUST agreed Mr A could transfer the mortgage to a new, less valuable property 
subject to making a partial repayment of the mortgage of around £176,000. Mr A wanted to 
pay an extra amount to bring his mortgage down to £100,000. 
JUST told Mr A the payments hed have to make to bring his balance to £100,000. Before Mr 
A completed the purchase of his new property, he asked JUST to confirm the figures hadnt 
changed. But after completion had taken place, JUST said the balance of Mr As mortgage 
was over £115,000, rather than the £100,000 he wanted and was expecting.
JUST explained the difference was because the early repayment charge (ERC) had gone up 
and additional interest had been added to the account since it had provided the original 
figures. Mr A complained to JUST.
JUST upheld Mr As complaint. It apologised it hadnt given Mr A up to date information, 
agreed to reduce the ERC to the amount it had quoted and offered to pay Mr A £250 
compensation. But Mr A was unhappy that still left a balance of around £103,360 because of 
interest that had been added to the account since the figures were provided and before 
completion of his purchase. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Mr A should be given the chance to pay the interest without having 
to pay any additional fees and charges, his account should be reworked as if his balance 
had been £100,000 at completion and he should be compensated £150 in addition to the 
£250 JUST had offered. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He thought the interest should be written off. So 
Ive reviewed everything to come to a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons Ill explain, I agree with our investigators view.
JUST wrote to Mr A in early May 2019 accepting his application to transfer his mortgage to 
his new property. It explained hed have to make a partial repayment of his loan of around 
£176,000. The letter made clear the offer would expire in mid-June, but it might be possible 
to continue with the transfer after that, although the figures in the offer may change. In mid-May JUST provided a breakdown by email of the voluntary payment of around 
£251,000 Mr A would have to make, on top of the partial repayment of £176,000, to bring his 
balance down to £100,000. It made clear the figures set out were an example and said JUST 
would be able to confirm the exact figures once it had received Mr As payment.
Later in May Mr A asked for further figures on the basis he would bring the balance of the 
loan down to £200,00 rather than £100,000. JUST sent another email in early June setting 
out revised figures, making it clear again they were an example.  
In the end Mr A decided to reduce the mortgage balance to £100,000 as hed originally 
planned. In June Mr A rang JUST to let them know hed be exchanging contracts later that 
month. He asked for confirmation of the figures.  Although the offer had expired by then, 
JUST reconfirmed the figures Mr A had been provided with previously but didnt say then the 
figures were an example. And it provided the same information again in another email before 
completion. 
After completion, JUST told Mr A there was a balance of around £115,000 on his mortgage. 
Understandably he was unhappy the balance wasnt £100,000 as hed been expecting and 
complained to JUST. 
JUST acknowledged it had made a mistake as it should have recalculated what Mr A would 
need to pay. It reduced the ERC to the amount it had originally quoted to Mr A and offered 
Mr A some compensation. Mr A thinks the additional interest should be written off as well. 
Mr A was active in checking the amounts hed need to pay to JUST. JUST had several 
chances to give Mr A accurate information. And although earlier documents said the figures 
might change, I think it was reasonable for Mr A to think they hadnt from what JUST told 
him. So I can understand why Mr A feels strongly the interest should be paid back to him. 
But Mr A had the use of the full amount of mortgage hed taken out with JUST in 2016 until 
he completed the purchase of his new house. It was clear from the terms and conditions of 
his mortgage hed have to pay interest on the mortgage. And Mr As told us he wouldve paid 
the additional interest if hed known about it at completion. So, whilst I understand Mr A will 
be disappointed with my decision, on balance, I think our investigators view about how to 
put things right is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right 
I agree Mr A should have the chance to pay the interest that had accrued to his mortgage - 
£3,358.09 - at the time of completion, to bring the balance to £100,000 at that time, and that 
JUST should rework the account as if hed made the payment then. 
I also think that fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr A has suffered as a 
result of the mistake JUST has made is £400. Hes told us about some difficult personal 
circumstances hes been dealing with and I think the impact of what went wrong here will 
have added to his distress. Mr As also mentioned he has some financial commitments at the 
moment. So I think its fair to give him some time to pay the interest if he chooses to do so.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that1. If he chooses to do so Mr A can make a payment to Just Retirement Limited of 
£3,358.09 within six months of his accepting this decision.
2. If Mr A makes that payment, 
a. Just Retirement Limited must rework his mortgage account as if hed made 
the payment at completion and the balance of his mortgage at that time was 
£100,000; and
b. Just Retirement Limited must not add any fees or charges to his account as a 
result of Mr A making the payment.
3. Just Retirement Limited must pay Mr A £400, inclusive of any compensation its 
already paid to Mr A for this complaint, as compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman