DRN-4253571
The complaint
Mr D complains he never received notice from Santander UK Plc (Santander) about the 
status of his account as he wasnt staying at the address Santander was sending letters to. 
He says it was unfair to register a default on his account in these circumstances and that 
Santander shouldve done more to contact him. Mr D would like the default removed from his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr D held a student account with Santander with an arranged overdraft facility of £1,200. 
The terms and conditions stipulate Mr D make regular credits into the account.
In February 2021 Mr Ds account was overdrawn by over £1,000 and hadnt received any 
credits in around four months. As Mr D had failed to fund the account as per the terms and 
conditions of the account Santanders transferred Mr Ds account to its financial support 
team and wrote to Mr D about this on numerous occasions at the address it had registered 
for him about the status of his account. The letters informed Mr D that he needed to make 
regular payments to the account and that if he could not make these payments to contact 
Santander for help. 
Following no credits being made and no response from Mr D, Santander sent a letter 
informing Mr D on 21 June 2021 regarding the outstanding balance on his account and that 
if he doesnt repay this immediately or get in touch, it will inform the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) that he has defaulted on his account. 
This was followed up with a letter on 14 July 2021 informing Mr D that he had 28 days to 
settle his overdraft debt or agree a repayment plan before it lets the CRAs know he has 
defaulted on his account and what that means for him.
Mr D failed to respond and Santander defaulted the account and registered this with the 
CRAs in August 2021. Having found out about the debt Mr D paid the outstanding balance in 
full on 5 October 2021.
Mr D complained to Santander that he never received the letters as his address was not up 
to date with it and that it failed to use other means of communicating with him. Santander 
says no error was made as it wrote numerous letters to the account it had registered for him 
advising about the status of the account and what was to happen and that it was Mr Ds 
responsibility to update it of his address for correspondence. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander sent numerous letters to the correct last known address for Mr D and didnt do 
anything wrong in not using an alternative means of communication for Mr D as it wasnt 
obliged to do so. Furthermore, when Mr D didnt respond they didnt think it unreasonable for 
Santander to default the account and register this with the CRAs.  
Mr D says he never received any letters regarding the status of his account as the address 
Santander had registered for him was his student address. Mr D says he paid back the 
outstanding amount on his overdraft as soon as he was contacted by the debt collectors. He 
says he wouldve paid back his overdraft in time had Santander contacted him by other 
means such as email and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr D has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr D back 
in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr Ds main complaint point is that it was unfair Santander registered a default on his credit 
file when he hadnt received notice of this. He says had he known what was to happen hed 
have paid the balance straight away as he did when he was contacted by debt collectors. 
So the question I have to ask is whether Santander did anything wrong in removing Mr Ds 
overdraft and banking facilities or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, 
notifying him of the actions it intended to take by letter rather than by other means and 
registering a default when he didnt pay back the outstanding balance of his overdraft in the 
required time.
And Im in agreement with our adjudicator that there was no requirement that Santander 
should use alternative communication methods to notify Mr D about the status of his account 
and the actions it was taking.  I accept that during the period in question Mr D wasnt living at 
the registered address Santander had for him. And I understand that updating his address 
mightnt have been a priority for Mr D, but ultimately the responsibility of this was his. And I 
dont think it would be fair to find Santander at fault for writing to Mr D at the address it had 
registered for him rather than using an alternative means of communication which it was 
under no obligation to do. 
So I dont think Santander acted unfairly when after writing to Mr D about the status of his 
account on numerous occasions, over a number of months and having no response it took 
the decision to withdraw his overdraft which resulted in a default being registered on Mr Ds 
credit file. I understand that Mr D is concerned about the impact this has had on his credit 
report, but Santander has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers 
affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate  and what was 
reported is as far as Im aware a true reflection of what happened. 
It might assist Mr D to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit record. 
The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. If he wishes to do this, he should contact CRAs directly. 
So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint as I dont think 
Santander has done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman