DRN-3674822
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC was irresponsible in its lending to him.
Mr W is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr W 
throughout.
What happened
Mr W says that Barclays increased the overdrafts on his two accounts to levels that werent 
affordable. It then provided him with a loan to consolidate his debts. He says that had the 
overdraft limits not been increased, he wouldnt have needed the loan.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint about the loan. It said that having considered 
Mr Ws income and expenditure at the time the loan was provided the repayments were 
affordable.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She considered what reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have shown and found these wouldnt have shown signs of 
Mr W being in financial difficulty and would have suggested the loan repayments were 
affordable. Our investigator noted the loan was to consolidate Mr Ws overdraft debts and 
the comments made about this but said the consolidation would have been in Mr Ws 
interest. Overall, she didnt think that Barclays had acted unfairly towards Mr W.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that while the loan was affordable at 
the start it wouldnt have been needed had the inappropriate overdrafts not been given. He 
said the issue of the loan and overdrafts needed to be considered together. He said that 
Barclays paid compensation for the overdrafts which showed they had done something 
wrong. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the issue that Mr W has raised about the loan being needed in order to 
consolidate the overdraft debts. While I have considered the reason for the loan and noted 
that Barclays would have been aware of the history on Mr Ws accounts before the loan was 
provided, this decision is in regard to the loan provided in November 2017, a separate 
decision has been issued in regard to the overdrafts.
Mr W was provided with a £2,500 loan in November 2017. I note the comments about the 
term of this loan being longer than he had wanted in order to make the repayments 
affordable and I have considered this as part of my assessment. 
The loan was repayable over 60 months with monthly repayments of £72. Given the duration 
of the loan I would expect Barclays to have verified Mr Ws income and to have asked about 
his expenses to ensure the repayments were affordable. Barclays has said that Mr W 
declared a monthly income of £927 and expenditure of £575 during his application. Barclays 
has also said that credit check was carried out which showed Mr W had £8,400 of unsecured 
credit commitments requiring monthly repayments of £244. I havent seen further details of 
the results of the credit check or evidence of the income and expenditure assessment and 
so I cannot say whether the checks were proportionate. Therefore, I have considered what 
Barclays would have identified had proportionate checks taken place.
I have looked at the credit report provided by Mr W to understand what Barclays credit check 
would likely have shown. This doesnt raise concerns that Mr W was experiencing financial 
difficulties at the time of the lending. The credit report shows Mr W had monthly repayments 
for a hire purchase agreement of £118 a month and also had a credit commitment with a 
communications supplier. Mr Ws bank statements show that he was receiving monthly 
income of around £927 (as recorded by Barclays) and it recorded an amount of £200 for 
bills, £80 for housekeeping and had amounts for food and fuel. Taking these amounts into 
account and noting the information Mr W provided at the time of the application, I find that 
the figures Barclays used for the calculation of Mr Ws income and expenses were 
reasonable. Based on these figures, I do not find I can say the loan agreement was 
unaffordable for Mr W.
I appreciate the comments that have been made about the need for the loan arising from the 
previous provision of the overdrafts. However, I cannot say that Barclays was wrong to offer 
a consolidation loan in this case as it appears to have been to the benefit of Mr W. I also 
note the comments about not wanting the account to default. I can understand this, but it is 
Mr Ws responsibility to maintain his repayments. If this isnt possible, he should contact 
Barclays to discuss this. 
In conclusion, while I know this will be a disappointment to Mr W, as I do not find I can say 
that Barclays acted unfairly by offering the loan to Mr W and I find that proportionate checks 
would have shown the loan to have been affordable, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman