DRN-2298616
The complaint
Mr H complains about Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) and its decision to decline two 
claims for flood damage incurred at Mr Hs properties. He wants Amtrust to accept the 
claims and pay out for the damage. 
What happened
Around May 2019, Mr H applied for landlords insurance for two properties he owned and let. 
He completed an online application via a broker. 
The application asked for information about the properties, including Is the property within a 
quarter of a mile of any water course or sea?. 
Mr H answered no in respect of both properties and received a quote for a policy 
underwritten by Amtrust. Mr H purchased that policy and cover began in May 2019. 
In February 2020, storms hit the area of Mr Hs properties. The water table was increased by 
around 2.5 metres and the nearby river burst its banks upstream, breaching flood defences.
Water flowed through gardens and flooded both of Mr Hs properties, along with a number of 
other properties in the area. Both properties had basement conversions which were deluged, 
resulting in substantial damage. 
Mr H submitted a claim to Amtrust. 
Amtrust appointed a loss adjuster who went to inspect the properties and prepared reports.
These reports detailed the extent of the damage and the works required. The loss adjuster 
also reported that the properties were very close, or adjacent, to a substantial river. One 
property was 30 metres away from the river, and the other was around 65 metres from the 
river. 
The reports were considered and referred for decision on Mr Hs claims. 
Amtrust wrote to Mr H in March 2020 explaining that it had come to light that the properties 
were within quarter of a mile of a watercourse. It explained that if Amtrust had known that the 
properties were so close to a watercourse it would not have offered cover for storm & flood. 
Amtrust therefore declined the claims and amended the policy, applying the amendment 
from inception. 
Mr H was unhappy and complained. Amtrust considered his complaint and sent its final 
response in April 2020. Amtrust did not uphold Mr Hs complaint and explained that if the 
online application had been correctly completed, and it had been disclosed that the 
properties were within quarter of a mile of a watercourse, then the system would not have 
quoted for the properties.
Mr H was unhappy with this response and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and has set out his view to the 
parties. This was that Amtrust had demonstrated that it would not have offered cover for 
flood & storm if the information about the properties proximity to the river had been provided 
accurately, and so Amtrusts decision to decline the claims was reasonable. 
Mr H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must make clear that I sympathise with Mr H. There has been substantial damage 
incurred to his properties and it appears likely that the costs to him will be great, including in 
drying time and lost rental income. I therefore understand how much this decision will matter 
to him. However, I must look at the complaint of whether the business has acted fairly and 
reasonably, rather than from the perspective of the impact upon Mr H. 
My colleague has previously explained the requirements upon consumers, and those 
engaged in their business, when making representations to insurers. I will not repeat these 
here, other than to say that I agree that Mr H was obliged to give the insurer accurate 
information that Mr H either knew, or ought to know, about the properties. Where he did not 
know information, he ought to have provided enough to put the insurer on notice to make 
further enquiries. 
Mr H has explained that he did not know that the properties were so close to the water and 
so did not believe he was answering incorrectly when answering no to the online application 
question. Mr H is concerned that he thinks his integrity is being questioned, rather than that it 
was an innocent mistake. 
I do not think Mr Hs integrity is being challenged in Amtrusts decision, or in assessment of 
this complaint. My colleague considered that, as owner of the properties, Mr H ought to know 
their location and information relevant to the insurance risk of their location. I agree with my 
colleague that it reasonable to expect Mr H to know, or obtain, accurate information about 
the location of his properties. 
Mr H feels that Amtrust ought to have been aware of the properties location and carried out 
its own flood risk assessment before offering cover, but I consider that Amtrust was entitled 
to require information from the applicant and to expect that information to be accurate.
Indeed, the policy wording makes clear that it is essential that policy holders provide 
accurate information, and that if it is established that the applicant provided false or 
misleading information (whether deliberately, recklessly, or carelessly) then Amtrust may 
take action as specified in the policy. This action includes amending the terms of the policy 
and applying as if the amendments were already in place. 
Amtrust has demonstrated to us that it would not have offered cover for flood and storm if 
that question had been answered correctly. Applying the requirements of the relevant 
legislation, Amtrust is entitled to amend the policy and exclude flood & storm as a peril, 
based on the misrepresentation that was made to it. 
Consequently, I agree with my colleagues view and do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H has made a number of comments regarding why he feels that Amtrust should accept 
his claims. These include that the policy wording does not detail that the proximity to a water 
course is relevant. 
I do not agree that the policy would need to make clear why every question that has been 
asked about the properties is relevant, because the policy wording only applies after cover 
has been put in place. In this instance, the policy wording relating to flood and storm would 
not have applied to Mr Hs properties as this cover would not have been offered had the full 
facts been known. 
Mr H has also commented on the rarity of the event, and that other property owners in the 
vicinity have been covered by their insurers, so he believes that cover could have been 
offered to him in different circumstances. 
I cannot comment on what cover is in places for the other properties affected, but am 
satisfied that Amtrust would not have offered flood and storm cover on Mr Hs properties if 
accurate information had been provided.
I realise that this decision will be disappointing for Mr H but, as I have not seen evidence of 
Amtrust doing anything wrong, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not ask Amtrust 
Europe Limited to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not ask Amtrust 
Europe Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman