DRN-3748791
The complaint
Mr S complains Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) provided him with poor service following his 
report of a disputed transaction. 
What happened
Mr S contacted Vanquis on 7 December 2021 to report a disputed transaction. Mr S was 
informed his card would be cancelled and he would be sent new one along with a fraud 
claim form. Once these forms were received back by Vanquis it would investigate his claim. 
Mr S received his new card on 13 December 2021, but he had yet to receive the necessary 
forms. Mr S was advised to wait a few more days to see if the forms would arrive. Mr S 
contacted Vanquis on 16 December 2021 as the forms had not been received. Mr S asked 
for the forms to be emailed the forms. This was not done at this time, and instead Mr S was 
issued with new forms by post.
Mr S received the initial forms that were sent on 8 December on 21 December 2021. The 
second set of forms that Vanquis sent were received by Mr S on 23 December 2021. Mr S 
received an automated text message from Vanquis on 22 December 2021 stating it had not 
received completed forms and he would be issued with new ones. It explained these would 
need to be returned within 14 days.
Mr S returned the completed forms on 21 December 2021. Vanquis reviewed the relevant 
information and on 31 December 2021 the full disputed amount was returned to Mr S. 
Mr S raised concerns about the service he had received from Vanquis. In its final response 
letter Vanquis accepted that there had been delays in the service Mr S received. Vanquis 
paid Mr S £125 in recognition of the impact this had on Mr S. This is made up of £75 for the 
delays he experienced in receiving the claim forms and £50 for the delay in the issuing of its 
final response letter.
Unhappy with Vanquis review of his complaint Mr S referred his complaint to our service. An 
investigator reviewed Mr Ss concerns and found that Vanquis had responded fairly, and 
they didnt think it needed to take any further action. 
Dissatisfied with this review, Mr S asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the issues Mr S has experienced with his account. Its not in dispute that 
the service provided by Vanquis hasnt always been smooth. Mr S has had to spend time 
and effort contacting Vanquis to resolve these issues which I appreciate must have been 
stressful for him. So, Ive given careful thought to whether the subsequent actions taken by 
Vanquis is enough to fairly recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr S encountered. 
Mr S wants a more detailed explanation about why he experienced numerous errors and 
delays, and he wants Vanquis to be more explicit about the mistakes it made, and the 
internal issues it has. 
I have looked at the evidence and explanations provided by Vanquis. It has accepted that it 
didnt send Mr S the forms online when it said it would. It also accepts that it took longer than 
it shouldve to send Mr S a response to his complaint. I think Vanquis has taken ownership 
and responsibility for these issues, and its response accepts that it made mistakes here. 
Vanquis has also explained that some of delays experienced by Mr S were due to internal 
time frames for sending out correspondence. For example, the new forms were requested 
on 16 December 2021, but not issued until 23 December 2021. Vanquis says it has a 5-7 
working days turn around for this task. It is commonplace for businesses to have internal 
timeframes for customer related tasks, such as sending out correspondence or responding 
to customer queries. Looking at the time frames Vanquis has given they seem reasonable 
and in line with general industry practice. So, I think Vanquis explanation about internal 
timeframes and how this contributed to Mr Ss experience is fair. 
Mr S has also raised concerns about the response time frame he was given. The fraud claim 
forms state they should be returned within 14 days. But Mr S didnt receive the forms, on 
both occasions for some time. Mr S also received a text message prompting him to return 
the forms. Vanquis has confirmed the timeframe is a guideline for customers and a claim 
would still be considered if the forms were returned after the 14 days. I appreciate this 
wouldve added to what was a stressful time for Mr S. Mr S had been in touch with Vanquis 
so it was aware of the problems he was experiencing so I dont think its likely his claim 
would have been prejudiced by any delay in him returning the forms. 
In relation to the postal delays, Vanquis hasnt been able to provide much information. I 
understand Mr S isnt satisfied with this. However, I dont think this is unreasonable. Vanquis 
is able to confirm its internal processes and time frames, but I wouldnt expect it to be able to 
comment on that of the postal service. I do think it took much longer than it shouldve for the 
forms which were sent on 8 December 2021 to reach Mr S. But this could be for a whole 
host of reasons related to the postal service. In my opinion December is a particularly busy 
period for the postal service. So, in Mr Ss case there may not be any other explanation for 
this delay, and in particular this isnt something I would expect Vanquis to comment on 
further. 
Vanquis offered Mr S £125 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to him 
as a result of the delays he experienced. Mr S doesnt think this award is enough. Reaching 
an award for distress and inconvenience is seldom straightforward. The issues involved are 
subjective by their very nature and the impact on the consumer can be difficult to determine. 
I understand Mr S feels the response Vanquis has provided is inadequate and it hasnt fairly 
compensated him. But I think the steps Vanquis has taken are reasonable. Mr S was given 
an explanation of the issues, he was refunded the disputed transaction, and the £125 award 
recognised the inconvenience caused. I wouldnt expect Vanquis to do anymore in relation to 
the delays and the £125 compensation is in line with what I would have recommended in the 
circumstances. 
I know this will not be the outcome Mr S was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont be 
asking Vanquis to take any further steps than already outlined. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman