The complaint
Mr M and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1992 when they applied for a joint 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs R complained to this Service. They said the PPI terms and conditions were 
never explained; they were not given enough documents to make an informed decision and 
the PPI was unsuitable for them as Mr M was self-employed. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected because there wasnt enough 
evidence to show the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr M and Mrs R disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
They added that Mrs R had good sick pay and it was not made clear it was an optional 
policy. The policy only covered Mr M, so sometimes, I will only refer to him where 
appropriate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr M and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr M and Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI
and so they chose to take it out just to cover Mr M  although I can understand why
they may not be able to remember this.
Nationwide said the PPI was not recommended to them so Nationwide only had to
give enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so they could make
an informed decision.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr M and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt
as clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they
wanted this type of cover for Mr M. And it seems like it would have been useful for
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think
better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.DRN-1102758
Ive thought about everything Mr M and Mrs R have said - including what they have said 
about having relatives to help them, Mr M being self-employed and that Mrs R had good sick 
pay benefits. But these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2019.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman