DRN-3102325
The complaint
Miss S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt process and couldnt 
locate a contribution to her pension plan, requiring her to contact it on several occasions 
causing her distress and inconvenience. She says it also paid hundreds of pounds in 
commission to a financial adviser when it shouldnt have. She wants Aviva to review its 
systems and procedures and correct shortcomings.
What happened
The events are well known to the parties, so Ive only summarised them here. Miss S joined 
a group personal pension plan (GPPP) with Aviva through her employer which was arranged 
by a financial advisory firm, who Ill call J. Miss S left this employment in 2015. In 2019 she 
made a single contribution to the plan via Avivas portal using her online banking. On 19 
October 2020 she made a further single contribution using the online bank account details 
saved from 2019 and the funds left her account the same day. 
Miss S says when Avivas portal still didnt reflect the contribution on 23 October 2020, she 
called it to query what had happened. She says Aviva called back later that day leaving a 
message with a factually inaccurate version of events. This left her trying to contact it 
shortly before 5.00 p.m. in an unsuccessful attempt to clarify matters before the weekend. 
She says Avivas systems and procedures made it impossible to recontact the same person, 
causing delays and requiring the whole issue to be repeatedly explained. Miss S contacted J 
who put her in touch with its contact at Aviva, who was able to locate the payment but not 
until 29 October 2020. Aviva invested the contribution the same day.
Due to these issues Miss S says she checked documentation she received from Aviva about 
both the 2019 and 2020 contributions and saw that significant fees had been paid to J, of 
£205.25 and £187.50 respectively. She said J hadnt provided her with advice or services. 
Aviva had recorded a complaint during a call with Miss S about the lost contribution, the 
confusion and failure to provide an explanation because of the involvement of different 
departments and the payment of commission. It sent a final response on this complaint to 
Miss S on 8 January 2021. This apologised for the problems. 
Aviva said it had compared the unit price of Miss Ss investment fund on the date it had 
received the contribution to the date it was actually invested. This was more favourable so 
there had been no investment loss. It said the payment of commission hadnt caused any 
detriment to her as it wasnt linked to the charges levied on her plan. But it said it had 
adjusted both the 2019 and 2020 contributions to reflect a nil commission basis and that it 
had updated its records so that J was no longer the servicing agent on the plan. It offered 
Miss S £250 in compensation for the inconvenience she had been caused and asked her to 
confirm the details for this payment to be made. 
Aviva says it had recorded a further complaint about the same issues on 9 November 2020. 
This had been raised by the staff member that Miss S had been put in touch with by J. It 
upheld this complaint for the same reasons as above and offered Miss S a further £350 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and the delay in resolving this 
complaint. 
Miss S referred her complaint to our service. She said Avivas final responses didnt address 
the issues and that adjustment of the contributions in 2019 and 2020 to remove the 
commissions were a cover up. She said Avivas online systems were dysfunctional  
forcing the holder to either take it or leave it. She said what had happened had caused her 
embarrassment and shed lost trust in institutions. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ss complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
He said the role of our service was to resolve individual complaints, so a customer wasnt 
out of pocket if a firm made an error rather than to supervise or punish the firm itself. He said 
Aviva had shown Miss S hadnt suffered a loss from the delayed investment of her 
contribution which had benefited her as the unit price was lower on the later date. He said 
the commission payments hadnt created a loss either. 
Our investigator agreed that Miss S had been distressed and inconvenienced by the 
problems locating her contribution. But he said that Avivas existing offer of £600 in 
compensation for this was more than he would have recommended and that Avivas 
resolution to her complaint was fair.   
Miss S disagreed. She accepted that the 29 October 2020 investment date was preferential 
and there was no financial loss. But said our investigator had been overly generous to Aviva 
as it exonerated it with no reassurance things are being put right. She queried Js role and 
made a number of general points about what she considered to be failures of the regulatory 
system. 
Miss S said she had absolutely no memory of Aviva offering me £600 compensation. But 
also said she did recall it throwing money at me to cover up the issue, but that his was 
more like £300 and she hadnt accepted it and a:
few hundred pounds  is not enough to make a company review its systems and 
procedures. 
As Miss S doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint, but I wont be asking Aviva to do any more 
than it has already offered to do. Ill explain why.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate financial 
businesses, which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell 
Aviva or other financial services firms to change administrative procedures or impose 
sanctions on them if I think there have been failings. What I can consider is whether a 
businesss mistakes caused someone a financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience 
and, if so, what the business needs to do to put things right. 
Im only considering Miss Ss complaint about Aviva here, but Ill explain some background 
about Js involvement with her plan which I hope will make my decision easier to follow.I dont agree with Miss S that Aviva is attempting a cover up. I think this is an unfortunate 
sequence of administrative errors. That isnt to understate the degree of concern Miss S felt 
when her money was unaccounted for or that payments appeared to be being made from 
her investment to J that she hadnt agreed to.  
Clearly something went wrong when Miss S paid the contribution in October 2020 and I 
understand her concern about what had happened to her money. Aviva accepts it took 
longer than it should have done to sort this out having provided a confusing initial response. 
Thats unfortunate, but the delay didnt cause her any financial loss as she benefitted from a 
decline in the investment fund price between 19  29 October 2020. 
It seems something also went wrong in Aviva making commission payments on both the 
contributions. But the charges on Miss Ss plan were the same regardless of payment being 
made to J, so there was no financial loss here either.
J administered the GPPP for her former employer and told Miss S that any payments made 
to it by Aviva after she left the employer in 2015 were in error and have been refunded. J 
said on leaving this employment Aviva should have sent a leaving pack and converted her 
plan to an individual standalone plan with a different account number. Aviva says the adviser 
to the GPPP will still remain linked to this individual plan unless it is instructed otherwise. 
It isnt clear whether Aviva issued the leaving pack in 2015. But following the queries raised 
by Miss S after the October 2020 contribution, it did issue one. This confirmed a new 
scheme and member number. I checked this number against documents sent to Miss S 
following the contribution made in 2019 and it is the same. This suggests something was 
done when she left the employment in 2015. Aviva has now updated its records to remove J 
from any involvement in Miss Ss plan. 
As Miss S hasnt suffered a financial loss, she is in the position she should be in apart from 
being compensated for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused. Errors do 
happen and Aviva had offered a total of £600 in its final responses in compensation, I think 
thats fair in the circumstances of what happened here. It reflects that Aviva didnt sort the 
problem out as quickly as it should have done.  
Our investigator wasnt sure whether Aviva had already paid this to Miss S and asked if 
shed received it. Unfortunately, this caused some confusion with Miss S understanding 
Aviva had told our service it had paid this. This led her to check her bank records to 
demonstrate otherwise. I can confirm Aviva hadnt said it had already paid the compensation 
and apologise to Miss S for the confusion. 
Aviva has confirmed its offer of £600 remains open. Taking everything into account I think 
this is fair compensation in the circumstances of the complaint, and it neednt do any more 
than this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £600 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay £600 to Miss S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2022. 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman