DRN-2884707
The complaint
Miss D complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim under her motor 
insurance policy. She says it accepted liability for an accident that wasnt her fault.
References to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
In late 2020, Miss D was involved in an accident involving another vehicle. She was entering 
a main road from a side street when the other vehicle collided with hers.
Miss D says the police who attended the scene told her the other driver was at fault because 
he was driving unaccompanied with only a provisional driving licence.
Aviva decided to accept liability for the accident following a claim from the other drivers 
insurers. 
Miss D complained to Aviva because she didnt believe she was at fault. Aviva stood by its 
decision. It said that driving on a provisional licence wouldnt make the other driver 
automatically liable for the accident. There would have to be proof they were negligent in 
their driving and that this was causal to the accident. It said the greater duty of care rests 
with the person emerging from the side road. 
Miss D remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
Aviva had carried out a fair investigation and had acted in line with the policys terms and 
conditions.
Miss D disagreed with our investigators view. She said she left a gap before pulling away 
from the junction and the other car was nowhere close to her. She doesnt have the names 
of witnesses as she was relying on the police to gather the information. She said the other 
driver fled the scene as he knew he was driving illegally and not within the laws of the road 
and Highway Code. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not my role, or the role of this service, to establish which party is responsible for an 
incident. What Ive needed to decide is whether or not Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably 
and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
The policys terms and conditions say that Aviva shall have full discretion in the conduct of 
proceedings or the settlement of any claim. Similar provisions are found in most motor 
insurance policies, so I dont find this unusual. It means Aviva is entitled to decide whether to 
defend a claim or settle it.
Its not disputed that Miss D was pulling out from a side street into a main road when the 
accident happened. The Highway Code requires drivers to give way to traffic on the main 
road in these circumstances. 
I know Miss D feels strongly that she wasnt responsible for the accident. She says she left 
enough room to enter the road safely. She believes the other driver caused the accident 
because he only held a provisional licence and was speeding. 
Ive no reason to doubt what Miss D has said about the other driver driving unaccompanied 
with only a provisional licence. While he may have been driving illegally, this isnt enough to 
show that he caused the accident. 
Miss D says she wasnt in a position to collect details from witnesses when the accident 
occurred. She was relying on the police to gather that information. 
Aviva says that it didnt request a police report because this would have been an 
unnecessary expense. It decided to accept liability for the accident after reviewing 
photographs taken at the scene. The photographs show damage on the drivers side of   
Miss Ds car. The damage to the other drivers car is at the front.
I appreciate Miss D feels witness statements would have supported her view that the other 
driver was responsible for the accident. But speeding is difficult to prove on the basis of 
witness statements alone. As an insurer, Aviva is likely to have experience of how a court 
would view the evidence that was available. It decided that the photographs were sufficient 
evidence for it to need to admit liability in the circumstances. And having seen these 
photographs, I dont think Avivas decision to accept liability for the incident was 
unreasonable.
 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss D. But overall, I think Aviva has acted fairly 
and reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman