DRN-2952733
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Santander UK Plc agreed to lend to her in October 2016. She 
doesnt think Santander did enough to check that she could afford the loan.
What happened
In October 2016, Santander agreed to provide Miss G with a loan. The capital borrowed was 
£3,000 over 36 months at an interest rate of 20.8%. The monthly repayment was £112.71 
and the total amount repayable £4,057.56. Miss G gave the reason for taking out the loan, 
as debt consolidation. 
Santanders contact notes show that in March 2017, Miss G was encountering difficulty 
making the loan repayments. In June 2018 the loan account was defaulted. 
At the same time as complaining about the lack of affordability checks carried out by 
Santander, Miss G also complained about Santanders response to a settlement offer she 
had made in relation to the loan. This has been considered under a different complaint 
reference. This decision focuses solely on Santanders decision to lend Miss G the money in 
the first place. 
After Miss G complained, Santander didnt uphold her complaint. It said that it had carried 
out the appropriate checks and found that the borrowing was affordable. It said that Miss G 
had mentioned her circumstances changing in late 2017 and that it seemed the affordability 
issues she faced were to do with a change in her circumstances, rather than her not being 
able to afford the borrowing in the first place. 
Miss G didnt accept this and referred her concerns to this Service.
An investigator here initially said that she didnt think Santander had made a fair lending 
decision based on what it knew at the time. She later said that she thought that the checks 
Santander carried out before agreeing to lend hadnt gone far enough. And that had 
Santander carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve discovered that Miss G couldnt 
sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
Santander disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I shared some initial thoughts about the case with both parties. I said that I too was minded 
to uphold the complaint on the basis that I didnt think Santanders checks had gone far 
enough. And that if it had carried out proportionate checks, it would likely have found that 
Miss G wouldnt have been able to sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
Santander disagreed but offered, on a goodwill basis, to remove the interest and charges 
from the outstanding balance of the loan. It said it wasnt prepared to make any amendments 
to the credit file, as this would mean it wasnt accurately reporting to credit reference 
agencies, which could prejudice Miss G as well as other lenders in the future. 
Miss G wasnt prepared to accept Santanders offer on this basis, so I have proceeded to 
reach a final decision on the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this case. Ill explain why.
Under the relevant rules (CONC), Santander needed to meet certain obligations before 
agreeing to lend. One of the things it needed to do was to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Miss G could afford to meet the loan repayments on a 
sustainable basis. 
The rules are not prescriptive in saying what checks Santander needed to carry out. But the 
checks needed to be reasonable and proportionate bearing in mind the relevant factors 
which would include, amongst other things, the size and length of the loan, information 
provided by Miss G during the application process and information relating to Miss Gs credit 
history. 
So Ive first thought about whether the checks Santander carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Were the checks carried out by Santander reasonable and proportionate?
Miss G was seeking to borrow £3,000 over a period of 36 months, so not an insignificant 
undertaking. Santander has said that due to the passage of time and changing systems, it 
has limited information about the affordability checks that were carried out before it agreed to 
lend. However, it says that the Miss G wouldve passed an expenditure assessment based 
on Office of National Statistics, credit bureau feed (which it says didnt identify any adverse 
information) and details provided by Miss G.
As part of our investigation, Miss G supplied us with a copy of her credit file. This showed 
that she had taken out a number of Payday Loans in the months leading up to the 
application. Santander no longer has a record of the detail of what its credit bureau feed 
showed. But it has said that it would have been granular and would have surfaced any pay 
day loans. So Im satisfied that Santander was aware that Miss G had taken out a number 
of Payday Loans, before it agreed to lend to her. 
Santander has said that it cannot discriminate against anyone who opts to use Payday 
Loans, especially where the loans are repaid with no signs of financial distress. It has also 
said that it fails to see how it could treat a customer negatively for their good management of 
such credit facilities. And it pointed out that at the point of application, Miss G only had one 
Payday Loan outstanding.
I am far from persuaded by Santanders arguments. Miss Gs credit file shows that she had 
taken out eight Payday Loans in the seven or so months leading up to this application. 
Objectively, this suggests that Miss G had to some extent become reliant on Payday Loans, 
before she made the application to Santander. 
As part of making her application, Miss G provided Santander with information about her 
income and expenditure. Based on this information, Santander calculated that Miss G had 
disposable income of just under £1,300 per month.
Bearing in mind that Miss G has said she was taking the loan for debt consolidation 
purposes, this meant that she was, on the face of it, seeking to borrow under three months 
worth of disposable income over a period of three years, paying more than 20% interest per year in the process. In and of itself, this ought to have raised question marks about the 
accuracy of the information Miss G provided and also the appropriateness of relying on 
some kind of ONS average to calculate or verify expenditure.
When one then overlays the fact that Miss G appeared to be reliant to some degree on 
Payday Lending, it ought to have been apparent to Santander that a proportionate check 
would involve looking more closely at Miss Gs actual income and expenditure, to check that 
she could sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
In terms of getting a better understanding of Miss Gs financial situation, in particular in 
relation to her income and outgoings, Santander couldve done this in a number of ways. As 
Santander didnt take these steps, I cant know what the checks wouldve revealed. 
However, Ive seen a number of Miss Gs bank statements in the lead up to the loan 
application. In the absence of anything else from Santander showing what proportionate 
checks would have shown, I think its fair, reasonable and proportionate to place 
considerable weight on it as an indication of what Miss Gs financial circumstances were 
likely to have been. And what Santander would likely have uncovered if it had completed 
proportionate checks.
The statements show Miss Gs income to have been less than she had declared  with her 
receiving approximately £1,250 per month in the lead up to the loan. They also show that 
Miss G had taken out significantly more Payday Loans than appear on the credit file. For 
example, in August 2016 alone, Miss G took out seven new Payday Loans (or similar), 
borrowing a total of around £1,600. 
When taken alongside Miss Gs actual income and regular expenditure, it is clear that the 
Santander loan repayments werent affordable or sustainable. Had Santander completed 
proportionate checks it was likely to have found this out at the time and it wouldnt 
reasonably have agreed to lend Miss G the money. 
So I think that Santander has done something wrong by agreeing to lend Miss G the money. 
And that it needs to put this right.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened. 
In this case, that would mean putting Miss G in the position she would now be in if she 
hadnt been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Miss G 
was given the loan and had use of the money. And, in these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Miss G back in the position she would 
be in if she hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
I dont think it appropriate for Santander to benefit from an unfair lending decision.
Bearing this in mind, Santander needs to do the following:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Miss G has paid to date.2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce any outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at step 1.
3. Based on what Santander has recently said, it seems that after step 2 has been 
carried out, there will still be a remaining balance to settle. Assuming this is the case, 
Santander must ensure that any outstanding capital balance isnt subject to any 
historic or future interest and/or charges. However, if Step 2 leads to a positive 
balance, the amount in question should be given back to Miss G and 8% simple 
interest should be added to the surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Gs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK Plc to do what Ive 
said above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman