DRN-1833533
 
 
The complaint
Ms C complains about the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to 
her alongside a mortgage by inet3 Limited, trading as Magenta Insurance.
What happened
Ms C took out a mortgage in 2005 for £115,000. At the same time, she bought a PPI policy 
covering her monthly mortgage repayments of £708 per month for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. She 
paid a single premium of £1,401.84 and this policy was to provide PPI cover for three years. 
The premium for the PPI was added to the amount Ms C borrowed for her mortgage and 
interest was charged on this. 
Our adjudicator looked into Ms Cs complaint and upheld it. The adjudicator concluded that 
although the policy hadnt been recommended to Ms C, inet3 still had to give her information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading and had to draw the main features of the policy to her 
attention. The adjudicator took the view that the information Ms C had been provided with 
about the cost of the policy, including about the interest payable, was not clear enough to 
enable her to make an informed decision. Also, that the policy didnt meet Ms Cs needs, 
given the mismatch between the length of the PPI cover and her mortgage term. Further, as 
Ms C wouldnt have got a proportionate refund of her PPI premium, if she had cancelled the 
policy early, because for example, she was re-arranging her mortgage, the policy didnt 
provide her with sufficient flexibility, in her circumstances. 
Inet3 didnt agree, it said, in summary:
Ms C had less than 3 months worth of sick pay cover and less than 3 months worth 
of pay in savings, so the PPI couldve provided her with vital protection;
she was offered the choice of taking a single premium policy or a monthly paid 
policy. The cost per £100 of benefit was set out for both. She was clearly told the 
cost of the single premium policy (£1401.84) on the quote. She was told she would 
have to pay interest on the single premium policy;
the information Ms C was given was clear, fair and not misleading. She was told 
about the main features and given sufficient information to make an informed choice;
had she paid for the cover by monthly premiums she wouldve ended up paying 
£1516.68 over the three year term (£42.13) per month. So, it couldve cost her more.
the policy was sold before the enhanced oral sale information requirements were 
added;
Ms C couldve moved to a monthly paid policy at the end of the three year term;
she couldve transferred the balance of her cover to her new mortgage if she ended 
her existing mortgage early. She could have taken a top up policy for any extra 
borrowing;had Ms C cancelled her policy, then the question of a proportionate refund would 
need to be considered. The policy ran the full three year term; and
Ms C had PPI cover for three years. If the complaint is upheld, a proportionate refund 
would be the return of the single premium only.
 
Ms Cs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I uphold this complaint. 
My reasons are largely the same as our adjudicators.
I cant see that Ms C was advised to take out the PPI, but inet3 still had to give Ms C clear, 
fair and not misleading information to enable her to make an informed choice and decide 
whether the policy was right for her and she wanted to buy it. I dont think inet3 did this, Ill 
explain why.
I cant see that Ms C was told the overall cost of PPI, over the mortgage term with interest 
added on to the single premium. I can see she was told that interest would be payable on 
the single premium, but not the amount. The quote told her how much per £100 of benefit 
she would pay, if she paid for PPI by a single premium or by a monthly premium. Based on 
the information presented, it looked cheaper to pay for the insurance by a single premium. 
However, had she paid for the PPI monthly, no interest wouldve been added. As she paid 
by a single premium, this premium was added to the mortgage and paid for across the term 
of the mortgage. So, with the interest, it wouldve ended up costing her significantly more 
than had she paid for the PPI monthly. This was not made clear, which it shouldve been.
The PPI policy was for a term of three years. Ms C was taking out a new mortgage, so 
although I dont know the term of her mortgage, looking at her monthly repayments and the 
amount she borrowed, I can see that her mortgage term was for considerably longer than 
three years. I cant see that Ms C was made fully aware of the implications of the PPI policy 
not covering her for the term of her mortgage. Inet3 said that Ms C couldve switched to a 
monthly paid policy after her three year policy ended. As I see it, she would have had to 
purchase a succession of single premium PPI policies, covering the full mortgage term, or 
she could have moved on to a monthly premium policy. However, in both instances, she 
would, in effect, be paying for two policies at the same time. I say this because she would 
still have to find the cost of, and be paying interest on, the original single premium policy. In 
addition, as it seems likely she wouldve had to take out a new policy at the end of the three 
year term, had she developed a medical condition during the lifetime of the original single 
premium policy, when she took out the new policy, likely she wouldnt have been covered for 
this. That's because it would then have been regarded as an existing medical condition. So, I 
think this made the single premium policy unsuitable for her needs. Had inet3 given Ms C 
clearer information about these things, I think she wouldve realised that the single premium 
policy wasn't right for her, in her circumstances, and not bought it.
In reaching this conclusion, Ive also taken into account that she wouldnt have got a 
proportionate refund if she ended the mortgage early. Inet3 said she couldve transferred the 
policy to another mortgage, and topped up the cover with a new policy, if she took on 
additional borrowing. However, given that the policy inet3 sold Ms C didnt meet her needs, 
and the costs were not clearly explained, had Ms C become aware of these things sooner, 
she may have wanted to cancel the policy outright. Given that the policy wouldnt have 
provided her with a proportionate refund in these circumstances, I think she wouldve ended 
up losing out because of what inet3 did wrong.So, overall Im not satisfied Ms C was provided with adequate information about the costs, 
the term mis-match and the implications of the type of policy she was buying. And I think it 
likely if full information had been provided, Ms C wouldnt have purchased the single 
premium PPI policy. So, I think this policy was mis-sold.
Putting things right
This service looks to put the consumer back in the position she would have been in if she 
had not taken out the PPI policy. Inet3 has suggested that on the basis that  Ms C had three 
years worth of PPI cover, it would be proportionate to only require the premium to be 
refunded. However, I see no reason to deviate from our normal approach to calculating PPI 
redress here.
I say this because Ms C borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her mortgage borrowing was 
bigger than it should have been. She paid more than she should have each month and it 
cost her more to repay the mortgage than it would have. So, Ms C needs to get back the 
extra shes paid. Inet3 should therefore:
    work out and pay Ms C the difference between what she paid each month on the 
mortgage and what she would have paid without PPI.
    work out and pay Ms C the difference between what it cost to pay off the mortgage and 
what it would have cost to pay off the mortgage without PPI.
    Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms C paid from when she paid it until she gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
    If Ms C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, inet3 can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires inet3 to take off tax from this interest. Inet3 must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold this complaint. I order inet3 Limited to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman