DRN-3986021
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Usay Business Limited (Usay) mis-sold a policy to her.
What happened
Miss B bought a private medical insurance policy through Usay over the phone. This was an 
advised sale and a recommendation was made.
Miss B says Usay didnt make it clear that she would need a GP referral for each claim or 
that she would be charged for any forms that the GP filled in. She says she made it clear she 
wanted a hassle-free process. So she feels the policy was mis-sold.
Miss B complained to Usay and unhappy with its response, referred her complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but found that the advice given to Miss B was 
suitable. 
Miss B disagreed and in summary, she made the following comments:
She doesnt think the £50 charge by her GP was made clear for referrals 
It takes three weeks for her to get an appointment with her GP 
Usay should have explained fully that she would need a referral for every claim
Usay should have made it clearer what the insurer would require 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
When an insurance policy is sold, the relevant rules and industry guidelines say the seller 
should ensure the policy is suitable. So it should take Miss Bs needs and circumstances into 
account. 
Ive looked at the information and documents Miss B was provided with and have also 
listened to the sales call between Miss B and Usay.
The following points were covered by Usay:
Different types of underwriting 
Moratorium underwriting was recommended 
All claims required a GP open referral 
The insurer could ask the GP to complete forms or paperwork 
Cancellation rights and the cooling off period 
Following the call, the policy paperwork was sent to Miss B which included a demands and 
needs document. This said:
Before you arrange any consultation or treatment you must call BUPA and they will 
send you a pre-treatment form to complete with details of the history of the relevant 
medical condition including information you will need to get from a GP or Consultant. 
You may be charged a fee for this which Bupa do not pay. Bupa will also tell you 
whether you will need to complete a claim form.
Overall, I think the information in the call was clear and I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for Miss Bs needs. 
The paperwork confirmed that a charge may be made for information provided by the GP 
and that Bupa wouldnt pay this. If Miss B wasnt happy with this, she had the option to 
cancel. 
I note Miss B says the charge by her GP wasnt made clear. But Usay wouldnt know 
whether or how much her GP would charge so cant be held responsible for that. It also cant 
be held responsible for any delays by Miss Bs GP. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that the policy was suitable so I wont be asking 
Usay to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman