DRN-3907289
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE gave her incorrect information about her 
pet insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mrs D renewed her lifetime policy with HDI. The policy provided a fixed 
amount of money each year to cover all veterinary treatment. Her benefit limit under the 
policy was £4,000 a year.
In November 2021 Mrs D made a claim to HDI for an operation on her dogs knee. HDI paid 
£420.43 to settle the claim.
In May 2022 Mrs D claimed for the cost of surgery on her dogs nose. That claim was also 
settled.
By that time the dog had become lame in another leg. Further knee surgery was needed at a 
cost of £3,200. Mrs D called HDI twice to discuss whether the next operation would be 
covered. She was told she was covered for £4,000 per condition per policy year and that 
HDI would class this as the same condition as the first operation, meaning she would be 
covered for £4,000 less the cost of the first operation. 
After the operation was carried out, Mrs D made a claim for £2,249.09. HDI paid £1,130.71. 
It said the policy limit of £4,000 had been reached for that year. That meant Mrs D had to 
pay the balance.
After Mrs D complained about being given incorrect information about the policy limit, HDI 
apologised and paid her £200 compensation.
Mrs D brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator upheld it. She thought HDI 
should reassess the claim on the basis that there was a policy limit of £4,000 per condition 
and add 8% interest to the settlement from the date of the claim.
As HDI didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mrs D was given incorrect information about her policy. The policy limit 
is £4,000 a year rather than £4,000 per condition. Ive listened to the calls Mrs D made to 
HDI in May 2022 to check the extent of her cover. HDIs call handler clearly misinformed her 
that there was a limit of £4,000 for the nose surgery and another limit of £4,000 for the knee 
operations.
Im aware that Mrs D had access to the policy documentation. But she obviously wanted to 
double check by speaking to HDI. I would expect HDIs call handlers to be able to explain 
the main points of its policy accurately to consumers. And in this case it didnt do that.
Where a business does something wrong, the role of this service is to put the consumer 
back in the position they would have been in if the mistake hadnt happened. If Mrs D had 
been given correct information during the telephone calls with HDI, then she could have 
made an informed decision about whether to postpone her dogs knee operation for just over 
two months until the start of the next policy year. Since the operation wasnt urgent (it was 
described by her vet as elective), I think its likely that she would have done that.
I consider that the incorrect policy information given in the telephone calls caused Mrs D to 
suffer a financial loss because it resulted in a reduced settlement.
Putting things right
To put things right I think HDI Global Specialty SE should reassess the claim on the basis 
that there was a policy limit of £4,000 per condition and add simple interest of 8% to the 
additional settlement from the date of the claim to the date of settlement.
If HDI Global Specialty SE considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much it has taken off. It should also 
give Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if Mrs D asks for one so that she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HDI Global Specialty SE 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman