DRN-3777708
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s handling of an escape of water claim
made under his home insurance policy.
All references to UKI include its appointed agents.
What happened
Both parties have provided me with a detailed timeline of events. And the facts of this
complaint are well known to both parties. So, Im not going to repeat them all here. Instead,
Ill provide a summary of events and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Id like to reassure Mr V that if I havent mentioned something it isnt because Ive ignored it.
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every fact and argument made to be able
to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr V is a vulnerable consumer who had recently been discharged from an extended stay in
hospital. Around February 2021, Mr V made an escape of water claim under his home
insurance policy with UKI.
After some time, Mr V raised a complaint about the way his claim had been handled and the
delays he said UKI had caused. Amongst other things, Mr V said in summary:
UKIs validation of his claim caused undue distress as hed been in hospital for over
60 days.
He was unhappy with UKIs attempts to source alternative accommodation (AA)
and so had to live with a friend whilst he was out of home.
There were delays in the initial strip out works and drying of the property.
The handling of his contents going into storage was poor.
The drying company failed to attend the property on certain dates.
There was a skip with waste which remained on the driveway.
The overall lack of communication from UKI and its agents since the start of the claim
had been poor.
To put things right, Mr V wanted UKI to resolve all outstanding matters on the claim, settle
the claim, and update its working practices to prevent similar problems for other vulnerable
consumers.
UKI agreed there were occasions where its service and communication couldve been better.
It agreed there had been delays with the strip out works which in turn delayed the drying of
the property. UKI also agreed the removal of Mr Vs contents couldve been handled better,
the skip shouldve been removed, and that the drying company shouldve attended the
property more frequently. So UKI offered Mr V £250 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Later in the claim, Mr V raised further concerns over the progression of the claim, agreeing
the scope of works (including a previously unidentified area of damp) and UKIs offer to cash
settle the claim. UKI responded to Mr V, agreed thered been further avoidable delays and
offered £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  making a total of
£600 compensation.
Mr V didnt agree, and his complaints were considered by our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They
highlighted areas of the claim where UKI shouldve provided better service. But they
concluded that UKIs offer of compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
So, they didnt recommend it needed to do anything further.
Mr V disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said:
The investigators findings were incomplete and inaccurate.
The amount of compensation offered is too low. He wants UKI to pay substantially
more for both his AA costs, and in compensation.
The complaint was passed to me and on 14 October 2022 I set out my provisional findings. 
Ive repeated an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think UKI needs to pay Mr V more compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused to him. But not to the substantial level hes requested in his
submission to our service. Ill explain why below.
Ive considered Mr Vs comments carefully about why he feels further compensation and AA
payments are due. And whilst his submission goes into some detail about the events which
occurred, I can only consider compensation for avoidable delays, and distress or
inconvenience which were as a result of UKIs actions, and which impacted Mr V directly.
I have no power to consider the impact or costs to Mr Vs friends or family, or anyone who
isnt a named policyholder.
In a similar vein, I can only consider requiring UKI to pay further AA monies if its shown that
Mr V was unfairly or unreasonably prevented from receiving them as an entitlement under
the policy benefit.
Ive set my conclusions out under the relevant headings below.
Delays
Based on everything Ive seen during the claim between February 2021 and December
2021, its clear there have been avoidable delays by UKI in dealing with this claim. For the
most part this can be attributed to; a delay in stripping out the property as the claim hadnt
been validated; a delay in arranging the necessary site visit to complete the scope of repairs;
and a delay in arranging and presenting the cash settlement to Mr V.This shouldve been better monitored by UKI, given that Mr V explicitly mentioned he was a
vulnerable consumer around April 2021, and I can see UKI made a record of this on its file.
And its arguable that Mr Vs circumstances prior to this, from the first notification of loss call,
shouldve put UKI on notice that he was a vulnerable consumer. I say this because UKI was
made aware that Mr V had recently spent an extended period in hospital, lived alone, and
relied on the assistance of family and friends.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s guidance for businesses on the fair treatment of
vulnerable consumer states, Firms should take additional care to ensure they meet the
needs of consumers at the greatest risk of harmfirms should also act early to prevent risk
of harm emerging or growing (my emphasis in bold).
The guidance also states, firms should be asking themselves what types of harm or
disadvantage their customers may be vulnerable to, and how their own actions can increase
or reduce the risk of harm.
Ive thought about how this applies in the circumstances of Mr Vs complaint. Mr V has
explained that he made UKI aware of his extended hospital stay at the first notification of
loss and of his vulnerability due to health issues, but UKI chose to refer the matter to its
underwriters before confirming cover.
The drying company was ready to begin work four days later but was prevented from doing
so as the claim hadnt been accepted. It took a further five days for UKI to accept the claim,
with drying equipment installed eight days after that. And its probable that this initial delay in
installing the drying equipment added to the overall length of the claim.
I find UKIs initial handling of the claim insensitive in the circumstances. Mr V was out of
home and didnt know when hed have the comfort of his own home to convalesce after his
hospital stay. And Im not persuaded that there was any realistic prospect of the claim being
turned down. But the possibility of it being turned down wouldve caused Mr V a heightened
sense of distress given his vulnerable situation.
Overall, Im not persuaded UKI has given sufficient consideration to Mr Vs circumstances in
its offer of compensation. So, I find that an additional payment of £400 compensation would
fairly reflect the heightened distress and upset caused to Mr V.
AA payments
The evidence Ive seen suggests Mr V was planning to convalesce with a friend for a couple
of weeks following his hospital stay. UKI says Mr V was living with his friend before the claim
and so didnt need AA immediately. UKI says it did offer Mr V five to six properties which
werent taken up. So, Mr V continued to stay at his friends property.
In the circumstances, UKI agreed a disturbance allowance to reflect that Mr V would be
staying with his friend for longer than anticipated.
I acknowledge Mr V has said he incurred additional costs by travelling back to his property
regularly to commence the drying. But Ive not seen any firm evidence of any additional
costs incurred by Mr V above what UKI has already paid. And as I mentioned, I can only
consider costs that were incurred by Mr V directly, not from friends or family.
Mr Vs policy covers him for up to £25,000 worth of AA costs and states, Alternative
accommodation where appropriate will be reflective of the individuals needs. Each claim will
be reviewed taking into account the duration, location, and occupancy and will continue for
the shortest amount of time necessary to restore your home to a habitable condition.Ive reviewed the costs that UKI paid to Mr V. Having done so, I think UKI acted fairly in
offering a payment to support Mr V staying with a friend. I can see it also increased the
payment from £800 to £1,000 per month following Mr Vs enquiries. I find this reasonable
and in line with the terms set out above.
Cash settlement
Mr V says he accepted the cash settlement under duress and hes unhappy with how UKI
presented it.
UKI says Mr V requested a cash settlement in lieu of using its own contractors to do the
repairs. And the evidence Ive seen supports this.
Mr Vs policy sets out how UKI can choose to settle the claim in this scenario. It states:
If the buildings are damaged by any of the causes, we will either:
repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
make a cash payment
If we can repair or rebuild the damage part, but we agree to use your suppliers or make a
cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our suppliers and
therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged by your suppliers.
I think this term is clear and sets the expectation that there may be a shortfall in the costs
should a customer choose a cash settlement over UKIs contractors. And further, the
evidence shows UKI reinforced this to Mr V on a call; saying that the cash settlement
reflected what it would cost it to do the repairs.
Ive considered the cash settlement amount. UKIs shown that it has used the higher of the
two quotations it received for the work, and that it includes VAT and a contingency fund for
any variation in the scope of works. And I can see its also factored in additional AA costs
whilst the repairs are done. I find this a reasonable approach for it to take.
Ive not seen any evidence of insured works which havent been scoped for. Instead, the
main source of the shortfall seems more likely linked to Mr Vs private contractor labour
costs, which UKI wouldnt be liable for. So overall, I find UKI has fairly calculated the repair
costs here, in line with its right to do so under the policy terms.
Therefore, I said I intended to uphold Mr Vs complaint and direct UKI to pay him a total of 
£1,000 compensation.
Developments
UKI accepted my provisional findings and said it would pay the compensation upon receipt 
of Mr Vs acceptance of my decision.Mr V disagreed with my findings. In summary he said:
My decision wasnt detailed enough, inaccurate and omitted a number of facts.
He was unhappy UKI didnt support his claim from day one and is still seeking 
contact from its Compliance Officer on the matter.
UKI didnt take into account his specific needs when offering AA. And he questioned 
how a vulnerable policyholder was supposed to deal with drying their property when 
they are not allowed to drive.
The 10% variance UKI applied to the cash settlement should have been 100%.
UKIs tactics in making the settlement amounted to bullying.
The compensation awarded is insufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent seen anything on review which leads me to a different conclusion 
than I reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain why below. 
Im sorry that Mr V feels my decision isnt detailed enough, or fairly reflects the 
circumstances of his complaint. But my role isnt to list all the facts as they happened, 
particularly when the majority arent in dispute as is the case here. 
Rather, my role is to consider the complaint and determine a fair and reasonable outcome in 
the circumstances. And having reconsidered everything, Im satisfied that Ive done so.
Im not going to comment on other avenues Mr V pursues outside of this complaint (such as 
any dialogue with UKIs Compliance Officer). I consider it outside the remit of this complaint. 
In any event, Ive previously concluded that UKI couldve acted better at the start of the 
claim, taking into account Mr Vs vulnerability. UKI agrees. Our role isnt to regulate or 
punish businesses for their conduct, instead its to resolve individual complaints by placing 
the consumer, as far as possible, in the position they should have been in if the problem 
hadnt occurred. 
Ive considered Mr Vs comments regarding AA. I dont think this changes my original 
conclusions on what actually happened  namely that Mr V continued to convalesce with a 
friend, and UKI made a reasonable payment toward this in line with the policy terms. Im 
satisfied that this payment took into account the fact that Mr V was staying with his friend for 
longer than originally anticipated. I find this reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Mr V says he was unable to drive at the time his property was being dried. But 
had the claim progressed as it shouldve from the start, this wouldve still been an issue  
given his recent hospitalisation. And its likely Mr V wouldve still had to rely on family or 
friends for support in getting around during in the early stages of the claim. So, I cannot 
reasonably conclude this was an additional impact as a result of UKIs actions.Regarding Mr Vs comments on the cash settlement, Ive already concluded UKI presented 
this fairly and Ive not seen anything further to change my mind. And whilst Mr V has said the 
variance in the cash settlement should be greater, the evidence Ive seen doesnt support 
this statement. A contingency fund is just that, and it wouldnt be fair to require an insurer to 
settle a claim for a higher amount than set out in the policy terms. So, I cannot reasonably 
require UKI to do anything further here.
Ive considered Mr Vs comments about why he feels further compensation is due. But I 
havent seen anything which wasnt available to me when I decided the award in my 
provisional decision.
Ill also acknowledge that whilst it is clear Mr V has spent considerable time preparing his 
submissions to UKI and our service, we generally dont award compensation for the time 
spent in dealing with or handling of a complaint.
Therefore, I am satisfied the award proposed in my provisional decision fairly reflects the 
delays directly attributed to UKI, and the impact to Mr V.
So, having carefully reconsidered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about U K Insurance Limited and direct it to 
pay Mr V a total of £1,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman