DRN-2358420
The complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance (RSA) has unfairly refused to meet a 
claim he made for damage to his wall following a storm.
What happened
Mr R made a claim for damage to his property. A wall collapsed and damaged his 
neighbours car and drive. Mr R approached RSA, saying he thought high winds had 
brought the wall down. RSA agreed to consider his claim.
RSA said it wouldnt meet the claim for repairing the wall. It didnt think the wind speeds 
were high enough to cause damage on the date in question, and that a report it received 
said the wall showed signs of long term wear and tear, and that this was the main cause of 
collapse rather than a storm. RSA also said a well maintained wall wouldnt have collapsed 
in the weather prevailing at the time.
RSA did agree to pay for the repairs to the neighbours car and drive as Mr R had cover for 
this subsequent damage.
Mr R complained, and pointed out that where he lives the wind speeds are often higher than 
in surrounding areas, and that the exclusions (reasons RSA can legitimately refuse to pay a 
claim) didnt apply. RSA still wouldnt pay for his wall. Mr R then brought his complaint to us 
for review. 
Our investigator looked at the information provided and said he thought RSA had 
reasonably relied on the information in the report when deciding if it should meet Mr Rs 
claim. He didnt think it needed to do more than it already had.
Mr R didnt agree, so I was asked to decide this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October. In summary I said I wasnt 
persuaded that the wind speeds were strong enough to cause the collapse of a well 
maintained wall. The main reasons for this were:
I wasnt persuaded by Mr Rs argument that the wind speeds were as high as he 
believed, or the evidence he provided to support this. 
 
RSA had commissioned a report which included photographs that reflected the 
conclusions of the report. It showed roots etc growing through the wall itself, and 
other signs of the sort of wear and tear that builds up over many years.
The wall was about 100 years old, and had vegetation on and in it. It had no weep 
holes to let water drain. Mr R thought the report exaggerated the condition of the wall 
but I was satisfied the photographs supported the conclusions in the report. It 
appeared that the only maintenance that had occurred was some pointing done by 
Mr Rs neighbour  which I understood Mr R had paid for.
Mr R said RSA could only use the build-up of gradual damage as a reason for 
refusing to pay his claim if it could show hed failed to maintain the wall. I wasnt 
persuaded by that argument, because, even with maintenance, parts of buildings 
(including walls), do have a finite life. 
I also said that even if I did agree with Mr Rs point, I hadnt seen enough to 
persuade me hed maintained the wall. Mr R said hed done all that could reasonably 
expected of him. He said hed had a survey done on the property when he bought it, 
and it didnt recommend any remedial work on the wall. He said if the survey had 
suggested he need do more than keep an eye on the wall hed have done that. I said 
that as the survey had been carried out about 18 years ago I couldnt give much 
weight to what it said. Mr R also said that a builder had recently looked at the wall 
and didnt think there was anything wrong with it. There was no evidence from the 
builder to say how carefully hed looked at the wall. Overall I didnt think these points 
showed the wall had been maintained over the years.
Taking everything into account I thought RSA had fairly relied on the report it had 
commissioned and need not do more than it already has.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has sent no additional comments.
Mr R says he understands Im unlikely to uphold his complaint. He did point out that his 
neighbour carried out the pointing without his knowledge or permission. I accept that point, 
but I cant say its a reason for me to uphold Mr Rs complaint as theres been no suggestion 
the work contributed to the collapse of the wall.
Given the above I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman