DRN-3952901
The complaint
Mr T complains that Metro Bank PLC are not reporting the correct information to Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) after he made a payment to settle an outstanding balance.
What happened
Mr T says he had an outstanding balance on an account with Metro Bank, so he made a 
payment to settle the debt to avoid it defaulting, but Metro Bank registered a default anyway. 
Mr T made a complaint to Metro Bank. 
Metro Bank did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. They said that they sent a letter to him 
regarding the balance due on his account for £206.49 and the letter said that this would 
need to be paid by 7 March 2020 or a default would be registered. They said on 8 April 
2020, his charges were refunded, and he settled the balance of £199.10 and the account 
was closed. Metro Bank said on 6 May 2020, Mr T contacted their collections team who 
informed him that the balance had been paid and therefore his default was settled, and they 
emailed the relevant internal team to update his credit file. They said that although he paid 
off the balance, this doesnt mean the default would be removed, however, it would be 
marked as settled and no longer due. They said when a default is marked on a credit file, 
this remains for six years. Mr T brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said the information on a credit report 
must be an accurate reflection of the conduct of an account. He said a default was 
registered with the CRAs and he sent links to CRAs websites to show that a default would 
remain on Mr Ts credit file for six years. He said the credit report Mr T provided to our 
service shows that Metro Bank have correctly advised the CRAs that the default has been 
repaid and he cant require Metro Bank to remove the default from his credit file completely.
Mr T asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He mentioned the circumstances 
which led up to the default itself including his personal circumstances. He said he felt that a 
default should not have been issued as the amount owed was settled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make it clear to Mr T that Im unable to cover off any complaint points which have 
been addressed as part of his previous complaints made years ago. So Im not able to 
consider the circumstances surrounding the registration of the default. This includes his 
personal circumstances at the time or whether the default was registered fairly or not. This is 
because these points were covered off by an investigator at our service over two and a half 
years ago regarding a previous complaint that was brought to our service and the complaint 
was closed in October 2020. So here, I will only be considering if Metro Bank have reported 
to the CRAs that he has settled the outstanding balance.
Mr T has said that he doesnt believe the default should have been registered as the amount 
owed was settled. But the payment history of the defaulted account shows that the payment 
to pay the outstanding balance (after charges had been refunded by Metro Bank) was made 
on 8 April 2020. As this was after the deadline given on the default notice which was issued 
on 6 February 2020, which said A default will be registered with credit reference agencies 
on or about 07-03-2020 unless you credit your account with the full amount of the overdraft 
within the next 30 days, then this is why they registered the default as he hadnt settled the 
debt by the deadline given. 
Ive looked at the screenshot that Mr T has provided us with his defaulted Metro Bank 
account. But a default would show on his credit file for six years regardless of whether it had 
been paid off or not, as confirmed by the links our investigator sent Mr T from two of the 
CRAs own websites. I can see from Mr Ts screenshot that Metro Bank have reported to the 
CRAs that there is a £0 outstanding balance on the account, so Metro Bank updated the 
CRAs to reflect that he has settled the debt. As Metro Bank have a duty to report accurate 
information about the outstanding balance to the CRAs and they have updated them to 
show the outstanding balance as £0, it follows I dont require Metro Bank to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman