DRN-4025212
The complaint
Mr J complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc (Moneyway) was irresponsible in its lending to 
him.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr J entered into a hire purchase agreement (agreement) with 
Moneyway for the purchase of a used car costing £8,490. Under the terms of the agreement, 
everything else being equal, Mr J undertook to make 59 monthly payments of £246.56 
followed by one monthly payment of £256.56, making a total sum repayable of £14,803.60 at 
an APR of 27.4%.
In May 2022 Mr J complained to Moneyway that it shouldnt have lent to him on the grounds 
that lending was unaffordable. In other words, Mr J complained to Moneyway that it had 
acted irresponsibly in lending to him.
In July 2022 Moneyway issued Mr J with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover this 
FRL Moneyway said it was satisfied it had done nothing wrong in lending to him and it was 
therefore not upholding his complaint.
In July 2022, and unhappy with Moneyways FRL, Mr J referred his complaint to our service.
Mr Js complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Moneyway had done nothing wrong in lending to him.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. Both parties have 
provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can confirm Ive 
read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that the parties will not take the fact 
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website. 
Before providing credit to Mr J, Moneyway needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether any lending was sustainable for him. The rules dont set out any 
specific checks which must be completed to assess creditworthiness. But while its down to 
the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out, these should be reasonable 
and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the term, the 
frequency and amount of the repayments, the total cost of the credit and what it knew about 
the borrower at the time. 
Moneyway said that Mr J declared to it that he had a net income of £1,300 a month and he 
was single, living with his parents and he had no dependents.
Moneyway also says that nothing on Mr Js credit file caused it concern and that it 
determined Mr Js income and expenditure by analysing his credit file, current account and 
by using an income and expenditure tool provided by one of the major credit reference 
agencies. And this led it to conclude that the lending was affordable, and Mr J had a monthly 
disposable income of £577 calculated as follows:
net income £1,300
credit commitments (existing) (£19)
credit commitments (Moneyway) (£246)
rent (£138)
cost of living expenses (£320)
disposable income £577
Ive considered the content of Mr Js credit file which Moneyway had access and regard to 
when it decided to lend. And having done so I note that this shows that although Mr J had 
very little by way of debt, he had four defaults registered against his name that were all less 
than two years old.
These four defaults, together with the size and duration of the lending, leads me to find that 
Moneyway should have established Mr Js actual expenditure rather than relying on an 
estimate of the same. 
But based on what Mr J has said and submitted to our service about his monthly expenditure 
and what his three bank statements for June, July and August 2019 show I, like the 
investigator, am simply not persuaded that had Moneyway established Mr Js actual 
expenditure, rather than relying on an estimate, that it would or should have concluded the 
lending was unaffordable. So, Im not persuaded that Moneyway did anything wrong in 
lending to Mr J.
For the sake of completeness, I would also add that Ive seen nothing to suggest any 
mismanagement or maladministration of Mr Js account by Moneyway including its treatment 
of interest due and payable under the agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman