DRN-3278141
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because it hasnt included their 
wall in a subsidence claim made under their home insurance policy.
Mr S has dealt with the claim and complaint, so for ease Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise whats happened:
After noticing crack damage at his property, Mr S got in touch with UKI. It appointed a 
loss adjuster, G, who inspected the property and arranged for investigations.
G accepted the damage to Mr S home was caused by subsidence and covered by 
the policy. It identified a number of drainage problems it thought had caused 
subsidence and agreed to put them right.
G acknowledged a nearby retaining wall was also damaged. But it didnt think it had 
been caused by, or was contributing to, the subsidence problem. Mr S complained. 
UKI answered that complaint in August 2020. It agreed to carry out the drainage work 
to stop the subsidence movement and to then repair the damage to the property  
but not the retaining wall. That complaint was referred to our service and has been 
considered separately.
Mr S took advice from P, a chartered engineer, and shared it with UKI. A meeting 
was arranged at the property between G, P and Mr S. An agreement couldnt be 
reached, so UKI agreed to appoint a structural engineer, C, to consider whether the 
wall should be put right as part of the subsidence claim.
After further discussion between the parties, in May 2021, UKI maintained the wall 
wasnt included as part of the claim for the same reason as before  it hadnt been 
damaged by subsidence. It also noted an exclusion in the policy for damage caused 
by faulty workmanship or design. Unhappy with this outcome, Mr S referred his 
concerns to this service.
Our investigator thought UKI had acted fairly when it declined to cover the damage to 
the wall. Mr S disagreed and the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint follows a separate one which considered events and evidence up to and 
including UKIs complaint response in August 2020. The scope of this complaint is from that 
time until UKI responded again in May 2021, following investigations and expert opinion.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence to the buildings, including garden walls, 
subject to various exclusions.
UKI has accepted the house and garage have been damaged by subsidence and the cost of 
those repairs are covered by the policy. When dealing with a subsidence claim, I would 
expect UKI to carry out a lasting and effective repair of the subsidence damage. That means 
stopping the subsidence movement before carrying out repairs.
Its agreed the leaking drains are the cause of subsidence and they should be repaired. And 
if other work was found to be necessary to stop the subsidence movement, it may also form 
part of the claim to ensure an effective and lasting repair of the house can be achieved.
UKI hasnt been clear and consistent about the extent of drainage work it will carry out  and 
that hasnt helped matters. But by May 2021 it had confirmed it would carry out the full extent 
of work required, and I understand that part of the claim has since progressed. Whilst UKI 
could have been clearer about this during the claim, Im satisfied this point is no longer in 
dispute, so I wont comment on it further.
The dispute at the heart of this complaint is whether UKI should include the wall in the claim. 
There are two main reasons why it would do so  if the wall was damaged by subsidence 
like the house and garage, or if stabilising the wall was necessary to stop the subsidence 
movement. Ill consider the evidence provided about these points.
Since August 2020, there have been three main reports, from three different companies. All 
were prepared by individuals with relevant engineering qualifications and experience, 
including membership of professional bodies, and following inspections of the property. As a 
result, Im satisfied all are credible experts. Mr S has questioned whether G and C are 
independent as they were appointed and paid for by UKI. Given their professional status, I 
consider them independent. Mr S appointed and paid for P, and I also consider them 
independent for the same reason. Ill summarise what the reports say.
P said the granular nature of the ground, and the leaking drains, meant the ground beneath 
the house, garage and wall had lost stability. And the additional pressure caused by the 
build-up of water in the ground was also having an impact on the wall. It said the wall 
supported the ground on which the house and garage were built, so it should form part of the 
claim to ensure the future stability of all these structures.
G said the wall didnt provide any support to the house and garage. It thought the outward 
movement of the wall had been gradual over many years as a result of the pressure of the 
retained ground. It wasnt persuaded that recent drain leaks had contributed to the problem, 
noting it was likely the water would drain through the granular soil rather than build up. 
Overall it saw no evidence the wall was subsiding.
C said the wall had failed due to an inadequate foundation, resulting in gradual movement. 
Whilst it noted that water building up behind the wall could increase the pressure, it wasnt 
persuaded this is what had caused the movement. It thought the wall would have failed 
regardless of any water build up. It didnt think the movement of the wall was likely to be 
having a significant impact on the house foundation.
Mr S also has relevant experience and qualifications in this area. I understand his son does 
too and has agreed with Mr S opinion. Its clear he firmly believes the wall should form part 
of the claim. Hes made many points, so I wont be able to list them all here. But Ive thought 
about what hes said alongside the expert reports and other available evidence.Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the weight of engineering opinion supports UKI 
more than Mr S. Ill explain why.
Im not persuaded the evidence shows the wall is subsiding. Theres broad agreement the 
wall has been deteriorating for many years  and prior to the discovery of the subsidence 
problem  as a result of long-term pressure from the ground. 
When looking at the impact of the drain leak on the wall, the focus of the experts has 
primarily been on whether that has caused the ground to swell and increase pressure on the 
wall. That type of movement isnt usually considered subsidence as its sideways rather than 
downward. The evidence suggests the wall has been gradually moving outward over time. 
So even if the drain leak has added to the pressure being applied to the wall, I dont think it 
would be fair to say the leak has caused the wall to become damaged  or that the damage 
amounts to subsidence. 
Whilst P mentioned a loss of stability under the wall, which they referred to as a washing 
away of the granular soil, they didnt go so far as to say the wall was subsiding. G and C 
were clear they didnt think the wall was subsiding or likely to be impacted by the water leak.
Im not persuaded the evidence shows the wall is contributing to the subsidence movement. 
There was less agreement on this point, including C acknowledging that this couldnt be 
ruled out. But it didnt think any impact would be significant. Ps reasoning for including the 
wall in the claim was to ensure future stability  which doesnt necessarily mean the wall is 
currently contributing to the subsidence problem.
Theres universal agreement that the drain leak is causing subsidence movement and work 
must be carried out to improve the situation. The evidence suggests this is likely to be 
sufficient to stop the subsidence movement. But this isnt certain. As a result, Im satisfied 
the suggestion to level monitor is reasonable. That will provide evidence to show whether 
subsidence movement persists after the drain work has been completed. If it does, I would 
expect UKI to consider whether that changes its position on the wall.
I recognise Mr S is concerned about the impact on his property of the wall collapsing and 
thats understandable. Im required to consider whether UKI has acted fairly. Im persuaded 
its shown the wall damage isnt covered by the policy and isnt contributing to the 
subsidence movement. And that means, based on the strength of the evidence currently 
available, UKI is entitled not to include the wall in the claim.
Overall, the position UKI reached by May 2021 was this:
Subsidence claim for house and garage accepted
Full drainage work to be carried out to stop the subsidence movement
Level monitoring to be carried out to confirm stability
Wall not part of the claim, subject to results of level monitoring
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied the evidence available shows this was a 
reasonable position to take.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
James NevilleOmbudsman