DRN-1719567
The complaint
Mr C complained that the ongoing fees he was charged by Better Retirement Group Ltd 
(BRG), trading as Advies Wealth were unfair. 
What happened
Mr C had a pension that had defined benefits. He obtained financial advice from BRG about 
transferring to a different scheme to offer greater flexibility on accessing his pension.
BRG charged a transfer fee of 3% of the transfer value of the fund. There was also an 
ongoing fee of 1% of the fund value each year. The ongoing fee was deducted monthly from 
Mr Cs fund.
Mr C complained to BRG that the ongoing charges were unfair. He said he should have had 
a breakdown of the charge in monetary terms. So he wanted them to be refunded. BRG 
didnt uphold his complaint. They explained the basis for their advice and what service they 
would provide for the ongoing fee Mr C was being charged. They thought that the charges 
had been clearly explained to Mr C when he agreed for them to act as his advisers.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the facts and didnt 
think that BRG had done anything wrong. Mr C disagreed. He thought that BRG had 
breached FCA rules regarding fees. He said that they should only be able to take an ongoing 
charge if they provide an ongoing service and he didnt feel that BRG had. He also said that 
when charging for an ongoing service they should have explained how he could have 
cancelled the service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C signed an initial agreement with BRG to carry out a pension review for Mr C. The 
agreement stated that Mr C would be liable to pay a transfer fee of 3% of the fund value and 
1% each year for ongoing advice, if Mr C decided to transfer his pension plan. This was 
sufficiently clear.
BRG explained that they wouldnt have offered Mr C transfer only advice. For them to offer 
advice on the transfer they required Mr C to also agree to the ongoing advice. BRG had the 
right to decide on what basis they would take Mr C as a client. So it was important that Mr C 
understood that, in choosing BRG to advice on his transfer, that he was also agreeing to 
ongoing advice as part of that.
BRG have shown us that Mr C signed an agreement instructing them to conduct his pension 
review. As I said above, I think the letter was clear on the fees that applied. So, I think that 
Mr C should have understood that he was agreeing to an ongoing charge for advice. 
Mr C has specifically complained about the ongoing service charge. Regarding ongoing 
charges, FCA guidance tells advisers if you are providing an ongoing service, you should 
clearly confirm the details of the ongoing service, any associated charges and how the client 
can cancel it. So Ive looked very closely at documentation that Mr C was provided.
BRG produced a pension review report for Mr C. The document detailed Mr Cs 
circumstances and advised on a transfer from his defined benefit pension into a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The report explained the cash equivalent transfer value 
of Mr Cs defined benefit scheme was £163,696.89.
The report explained the fees that would apply for the service BRG provided. It explained 
that 3% of the transfer value would be paid from the fund value on transfer. And because the 
fund value was known it gave the cash value of that fee as £4,910.90. The review explained 
that the fee for ongoing advice would be 1% of the fund value per annum and the fee would 
be deducted monthly from the fund value. 
In order to give fair, clear and non-misleading information on the charges in accordance with 
the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 6.1A, BRG should have also given 
cash examples for the ongoing advice and made it clear that the charges would increase in 
line with increases in Mr Cs funds. So I think BRG could have been clearer about their 
ongoing charges. However, this services role isnt to punish businesses for their mistakes. 
We aim to put customers back in the position they would be in if an error hadnt occurred. 
Mr C knew the exact costs of his initial adviser fee. Given that he knew 3% of his fund was 
£4,910.90, I think he would have had a rough idea what his 1% charge would cost him per 
year. Overall, Im not convinced that any additional information would have changed Mr Cs 
perception of fees significantly enough to change his decision to go ahead with the transfer 
and ongoing advice. So even if better information had been given to him, I think its likely he 
would be in the same position he is in now.
When the pension review had been done, Mr C decided to go ahead with his pension 
transfer. He signed the client agreement which included a section headed Termination. It 
explained that the agreement for BRG to act on Mr Cs behalf could be terminated by giving 
7 days notice in writing. It also stated, a due proportion of period charges for services shall 
be settled to that date. So I think that BRG explained how Mr C could have cancelled his 
agreement for ongoing advice. I also think that the agreement meant that Mr C could be 
liable for the fees for that part of the year already elapsed.
Mr C doesnt feel that he was provided a service for the fees. The pension review report that 
Mr C was provided explained that BRG would review his plan on an ongoing basis. They 
were supposed to contact him, at least annually, to track the progress of his plan and any 
changes that affected his position. I think the report provided the necessary information 
regarding what ongoing services BRG were to provide.
At some point in the year after the transfer Mr C decided not to have ongoing advice. I dont 
think that Mr C told BRG this was the case though. So for the remainder of the year they 
were still available for advice. And theyve shown that they tried to conduct the review. BRG 
have stated that they tried to obtain the pension fund information in order to conduct their 
review and were unable to do so because Mr C had notified his pension provider that BRG 
were no longer his advisers. 
Because Mr C didnt terminate his agreement with BRG in writing they were available as his 
advisors for the full year and even commenced a review that they were ultimately unable to 
perform. I dont think that BRG have acted unfairly in the way they have treated their 
agreement with Mr C. So I am unable to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2020.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman