DRN-3296564
The complaint
Mr M has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit was irresponsible 
in lending to him.
What happened
In 2016 AvantCredit provided Mr M with a loan of £2,500 repayable over 24 months with a 
monthly repayment of £181.82. 
Mr M complained that the loan was unaffordable. AvantCredit looked into his complaint. It 
said it had carried out proper checks and it thought the loan was affordable. 
Mr M referred his complaint to us. He said hed been struggling with debt at the time he took 
out the loan and the stress of doing so had affected his mental health. Our adjudicator 
upheld the complaint. He didnt think AvantCredit should have advanced the loan to him. 
As AvantCredit didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ms complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
AvantCredit asked for information about Mr Ms income and expenses. Mr M said his net 
monthly income was £2,050 and his expenses came to £700. AvantCredit verified his 
income. 
It also obtained a credit report and reviewed his bank statements for the period leading up to 
his application. I dont need to draw any conclusions about the checks that AvantCredit 
carried out on this occasion. This is because, on balance, I dont think AvantCredit made a 
fair lending decision for the loan and Ill explain why.
On the face of it, Mr M appeared to have sufficient disposable income to be able to afford 
the loan from AvantCredit. But it was aware from the credit check that worryingly Mr M had 
had one default in the last 12 months and had missed some loan repayments in the 
previous 2 months. I think this ought to have caused AvantCredit concern as it appeared 
Mr Ms finances might be strained. Hed also opened 12 new accounts in the last 3 months 
and owed a total of £11,708. His monthly credit repayments at the time of his application 
were £1,419 which was over half his monthly net income. 
AvantCredit has explained that the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation. Mr M could 
have used the £2,500 loan to repay some of his short-term loans which in turn could have 
reduced his credit commitments going forward to an estimated £668.65 which would have 
been 32% of his income.However, AvantCredit doesnt appear to have paid off any of these loans directly, so its not 
clear to me that Mr M actually used the loan for this purpose. In any event more than this 
would be needed to reduce his credit card debt of £6,146 in a meaningful way by him 
making more than the minimum monthly repayments. In my opinion his credit commitments 
would at best still have been such a significant proportion of his net income that it was an 
indication that Mr M was unlikely to be able to maintain such a high level of debt sustainably.
The stated purpose of debt consolidation isnt enough in itself to make me think that the loan 
was fairly provided or that it proved helpful in the event to Mr M.
The fact that Mr M managed his monthly repayments to the loan and repaid it early doesnt 
mean that he was able to do so sustainably or that this is a good enough reason for me not 
to uphold his complaint that the loan was unaffordable.
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
As I have concluded AvantCredit shouldnt have provided the loan, it should:
  refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require AvantCredit Limited to 
put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman