DRN-2917678
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined a claim he 
made on a landlords property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C owns a number of properties and insures them with RSA. The circumstances which 
have led to this complaint are known to both parties, but Ill briefly summarise them below:
Following a period of bad weather, Mr C made a claim for damage to chimney pots at 
one his properties.
RSA declined the claim. It said that the main reason for the damage to the chimney 
pots was that over time, the mortar securing them to the roof had become worn and 
then failed in high winds. The policy excluded cover for damage caused over time or 
by wear and tear.
Mr C complained to RSA. He said that the property had been well maintained and he 
had no reason to believe there were any wear and tear issues with the chimney pots. 
He also questioned how RSA had handled the claim and reached its conclusion to 
decline cover.
When RSA rejected the complaint, Mr C referred it to our service. Our investigator 
thought that RSA had acted reasonably when it declined cover. Mr C didnt agree, so 
his complaints come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs claim has been made under the section of his policy which provides cover for storm 
damage. Our services general approach to storm damage claims is well established. We 
consider that there are three questions to be addressed:
1) Did storm conditions occur on (or around) the date the incident occurred?
2) Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3) Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Wed usually say that the answer to all three of these questions need to be yes in order for a 
claim for storm damage to be successful.
In Mr Cs case, it doesnt seem to be disputed by RSA that the weather conditions when the 
damage occurred amounted to a storm, due to the level of winds experienced near Mr Cs 
property. Its also, I think, to be expected that chimney pots becoming dislodged from the 
roof is consistent with damage which could occur during a storm.
RSAs decision to decline cover for the claim turns, therefore, on the final question. And in 
this regard, RSA says that the main reason the chimney pots were damaged in the storm 
was because the mortar had eroded and could no longer support them in the high winds.
In making that determination, RSA reviewed photos of the damaged chimney pots. Its 
technical experts, who have qualifications in assessing the cause of damage, concluded that 
the mortar had failed due to an ongoing process of deterioration. In common with many 
property insurance policies, Mr Cs policy excludes cover for damage which results from 
things which have happened over time or wear and tear. 
Im aware that Mr C disputes this, but hasnt provided any evidence from a contractor or 
other expert to say that the damage occurred primarily because of the storm. He also hasnt 
provided anything to show that the mortar was in a good condition prior to the storm, as hes 
said was the case. 
Ive also looked at the photos. While I dont have technical expertise in the cause of damage, 
I do think that these show a large amount of cracking and moss build up on the mortar. The 
cracks dont appear to be newly formed and I think that it was reasonable for RSA to say that 
the mortar had eroded over time.
The broker (on behalf of Mr C) suggested to RSA that it was unreasonable to rely on the 
photographs and that it would be beneficial if a loss adjuster, surveyor or other expert 
attended and inspected the chimney pots and area where the damage occurred. The timing 
of this is important I think. This was after RSA had initially declined cover for the claim on the 
basis of its inspection of the photographs. Those had been viewed by RSAs technical 
experts who had, I think, sufficient experience to be able to make that assessment. This was 
also being discussed between the broker and RSA in March and April 2020, at a time when 
the Covid-19 related lockdown was in full effect. As RSA had sufficient information and 
expertise to be able to fairly decline the claim without having an appointed representative 
view the damage in person, I think it acted reasonably particularly in light of the prevailing 
restrictions on travel and people meeting and mixing which existed at the time.
Im satisfied RSA could fairly conclude that the damage occurred mainly due to gradual 
deterioration over time of the mortar. This means the answer to the third question (Were the 
storm conditions the main cause of the damage?) is no. Where the answer to any of the 
three questions is no, its usually fair for an insurer to decline cover for a claim for storm 
damage. It follows that RSA acted reasonably when it declined Mr Cs claim.
Im aware Mr C thinks that RSA should have been more pro-active in its assessment of the 
claim, and that if it had done so it would have received evidence to support his position that 
the damage didnt occur due to wear and tear. But I can see from RSAs notes that it made 
several attempts to contact contractors whod carried out repairs to the chimney pots after 
the storm in order to obtain information, but didnt receive a response. The notes also show 
that RSA suggested to Mr Cs broker (who was in contact with RSA about the claim) that it 
might be beneficial for him to speak to the contractors directly and ask them to contact RSA. 
The notes indicate that broker suggested Mr C wouldnt be agreeable to this course of 
action. I dont know if Mr C was encouraged to speak to the contractors, but theres nothing 
to show the contractors did contact RSA. I think RSAs actions in seeking to ask Mr C to 
speak to the contractors were reasonable in addition to their own unsuccessful attempts to 
obtain the information directly.
I think RSA acted reasonably when assessing the claim. It sought information from the 
contractors who may have ben able to clarify detail around what had caused the damage. 
When this wasnt available, it made an assessment based on the information it had. And as 
Ive said, I think it acted fairly in reaching the conclusion that the claim wasnt covered.
My final decisionIts my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman