DRN-2845734
The complaint
W, a limited company, acting by its director, Mr O, complains about a number of problems 
its had with Barclays Bank UK Plc, including being charged for card payment terminals that 
it couldnt use, the refusal of additional lending and some failed cheque payments.
What happened
The parties are familiar with the background, so I dont intend to set it out in detail here. But 
in summary, Mr O has, over the last couple of years, experienced significant difficulties with 
Ws Barclays business account. All of this has come at a time of great financial difficulty for 
W and Mr O, as the Covid 19 pandemic had a negative effect on its business. Mr O ended 
up in litigation with a rogue seller and he has struggled to access the financing that he 
needed over this time too.
Mr Os problems havent just been with Barclays, but a number of other banks as well. And 
on top of this it seems he may have been targeted by scammers pretending to be from 
various UK regulatory organisations.
I was very sorry to hear of the troubles Mr O has been having. And I do hope that things 
improve for him in the near future. In dealing with Ws complaint though, I need to break 
down the various things that Mr O is unhappy about and then determine, first, whether we 
can look into them, and second, whether Barclays has done anything wrong that it now 
needs to put right.
The following are the main things with which Mr O remains unhappy:
1. Barclays merchant services team sent him some card readers over two months after 
it told him that it wouldnt approve them and then its charged him almost £2,000 of 
fees for a service he hasnt, and couldnt, use;
2. A deposit of £180 to a solicitor was lost when it was being transferred to another 
bank  Mr O says he got £25 compensation for this and arranged for the money to be 
transferred in cash;
3. Mr Os debit card for Ws account was eaten by the machine at another bank in 
Windsor and it took over a month to get the relevant PIN;
4. W had problems with two cheques not being paid, one because of an alleged 
problem with the signature and the other due to some illegible writing;
5. W hasnt had access to online banking since October 2020;
6. W requested additional lending of £4,000, but this was refused as the £10,000 loan 
that it had taken out in March 2018 wasnt flexible, which Mr O thought it was;
7. Demand was made on Ws loan account for missed payments which Mr O considers 
amounted to him being treated like a criminal.
8. A bounce back loan that Mr O took out with another bank through one of his 
companies was partially paid into Ws account - Barclays used some of those funds 
to pay off outstanding amounts due to it.
I appreciate that there may be other things with which W and Mr O were unhappy, as the 
relationship with Barclays appears to have broken down considerably over this period. But I 
need to focus on those things that Barclays has had the opportunity to consider and for 
which it has issued final response letters following Mr Os complaints.
In that regard, it appears that Barclays has issued four final response letters, in which it gave 
W referral rights to this service. The first two of those were sent on 9 October 2019 and 4 
December 2019. These addressed the complaints W and Mr O had made in relation to items 
1 to 4 above. Barclays didnt uphold the substance of those complaints. But it paid £125 to 
Ws account to recognise the inconvenience it had caused through the time taken to deal 
with them.
In the second final response letter, Barclays also agreed to arrange to collect the card reader 
machines and it waived the cancellation fee for the merchant services accounts. But it didnt 
think it had done anything wrong in granting those facilities in the first place.
Mr O brought all of his complaints to our service in August 2020. So, Barclays has said that 
as the first four werent referred to us within six months of the first two final response letters, 
we dont have the jurisdiction to look into them.
Items 5 to 7 were dealt with in two final response letters dated 9 and 13 November 2020. So 
those were brought to us in time. But Barclays didnt uphold those complaints and said that it 
had acted appropriately in demanding repayment of the loan and that the account wasnt 
flexible, so it didnt have to lend W any more money given its financial circumstances at the 
time. And as there were defaulted payments on the loan, it was correct practice for it to have 
restricted Ws account, pending Mr O getting in touch to discuss the outstanding amounts.
Item 8 wasnt dealt with in a final response letter. But I include it here out of completeness, 
as Barclays has responded to it in correspondence with us, where its stated that it had the 
right, under the account terms and conditions, to set off credit balances against any money 
due to it.
Our investigator agreed that items 1 to 4 had unfortunately been brought to us too late and 
were accordingly out of time in terms of our jurisdiction to look into them. Whilst she noted 
that Mr O had sadly been unwell at times, she didnt think there were any exceptional 
circumstances that would have allowed us to consider these anyway.
Our investigator also didnt think that Barclays had done anything wrong in relation to items 5 
to 8. Mr O hadnt got in touch with Barclays to address the missed payments and so 
Barclays had followed its usual process in defaulting the loan and requiring repayment from 
W. She also didnt think it had done anything wrong in restricting Ws account or setting off 
any credit balances.
Mr O didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Can we consider these complaints?
At this service, were governed by rules that limit the types of complaint that can be brought 
to us. In particular, those rules provide that a customer can only bring a complaint to us within six months of a final response having been sent by the relevant financial services firm 
for that complaint. 
Here, Barclays issued final response letters to W in October and December 2019 for 
complaint points numbered 1 to 4 above. Mr O has said that he was still dealing with 
Barclays after that time and has provided some emails he sent to Barclays. But Mr O didnt 
bring Ws complaint to us until August 2020. And thats the date that I need to consider here. 
So, Im afraid that he was out of time. And that means that we dont have the power to 
consider those aspects of his complaint.
Ive considered whether there were any exceptional circumstances that prohibited Mr O from 
bringing the complaints on Ws behalf. But I havent found that there were any. I know that 
Mr O has occasionally been unwell. But I havent seen any evidence that he would have 
been incapable of coming to us any earlier than he did.
In terms of complaint points 5 to 8, those were brought to us in time. So, Ill go on to consider 
the merits of those below.
Complaint points 5 to 8
Having reviewed the evidence we have available, it appears to me that a lot of the problems 
that have occurred here for W and Mr O stem from the financial difficulties that W has 
unfortunately encountered around the time of the pandemic, starting in early 2020.
Mr O and W got into a dispute with the seller of a business. That led to litigation. And in 
order to continue with the court process, W appears to have taken out a £10,000 loan facility 
from Barclays. Mr O says the facility should have been flexible. And when he came to 
borrow an additional £4,000, he expected that to be granted.
But the facility wasnt flexible, it was for a fixed sum. And Barclays wasnt under an obligation 
to lend any further money. Whether to lend or not would have been a question of exercising 
its commercial discretion. It has to act reasonably when exercising that discretion. But 
considering that the loan appeared to be required for litigation funding, and that his wasnt 
something that Barclays appears to have been aware of before, I cant say here that it acted 
unfairly in reaching the lending decision that it did.
Mr O also asked for Ws overdraft to be extended. And I understand a discussion took place 
about whether or not Mr O was prepared to give a personal guarantee for that lending. But 
as far as I can see, those discussions didnt then go any further.
Having taken everything into account, Im afraid that I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably when not agreeing to lend anything further to W.
Similarly, Barclays placing of restrictions on Ws account and demands for repayment when 
W failed to pay the loan instalments wasnt, I think, unfair. Barclays has a process for dealing 
with non-payment of business banking facilities. And its followed that here. I havent seen 
any evidence that it was discriminating in any way against Mr O or W in taking the actions 
that it did. It was just a question of a business not paying amounts it owed on time. And 
action being taken accordingly to address that. The facilities were restricted as a way of 
prompting Mr O to get in touch to discuss the debt. And as Mr O didnt want to engage with 
Barclays about that, the facilities remained restricted.
What I think is unfortunate here, and may have led to the breakdown in relations that has 
happened, was that Mr O didnt contact Barclays to discuss Ws financial situation and see 
what arrangements could have been made to restructure those loan repayments.I know that Mr O has said that hed prefer not to have any further dealings with Barclays. But 
it is really important that when faced with financial difficulties, any company, or individual, 
gets in touch with their bank to discuss what arrangements may be made to accommodate 
them. Banks are under an obligation to treat their customers fairly. And wed expect them to 
consider a customers financial situation and needs positively and sympathetically. So, I 
would urge Mr O to get in touch with Barclays and discuss the outstanding amounts and 
what accommodation W will need.
Finally, I understand that Mr O took out a bounce-back loan with another bank through one 
of his other companies. Some of this was paid into Barclays. Not much detail has been 
provided to us about what may have happened here. So, I cant really consider that aspect 
of Mr Os complaint in any great detail. But I agree with what our investigator said. Barclays 
does have the right to set off any amounts coming into Ws account against other amounts 
that it may be owed by that company. So, on the face of it, I cant say that Barclays did 
anything wrong here.
Ill close by saying that I understand what Mr O says when hes told us that there are two 
sides to every story. And I appreciate that he may think that Barclays treatment of him and 
his company has been unfair. This last couple of years has not been easy for a lot of 
businesses. But I do hope that Mr O is able to get his business back on its feet. And I would 
again urge him to get in contact with Barclays to discuss Ws remaining debts.
My decision on whether we can consider these complaints
For the reasons given above, its my decision that we cant consider complaint points 1 to 4 
above as they were brought to us out of time.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold complaint points 5 to 8 and I wont be requiring 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O on behalf of 
W to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman