DRN-4349355
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were mis-sold timeshare products. Because those products 
were financed with loans provided by Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), they say that 
it is liable to meet their claims in the same way as the seller. 
Mr and Mrs H have been represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill refer to as N. Where I 
refer to Mr and Mrs Hs submissions, I include those made on their behalf.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have explained that, in August 2019, they were invited to, and attended, a 
presentation about the Club La Costa Destinations Club. As a result of attending that 
presentation, they bought from Club La Costa (UK) Plc (CLC) a 36-month trial membership 
in the Destinations Club. Under the agreement they could use up to five holiday weeks within 
the trial membership period. In addition they were given a Prelude promotion, which they 
had to take as their first holiday at a CLC resort in Spain or Tenerife. 
The cost of the trial membership was £4,395, which was funded with a 36-month loan from 
Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs H took their Prelude promotion holiday in September 2019. Again, they attended 
a CLC presentation, at the end of which they entered into an agreement with Club La Costa 
(UK) Sucursal en Espaa (the Spanish branch of CLC) to buy full 15-year membership of the 
Club La Costa Vacation Club Limited and 1,250 Points Rights for a price of £16,265. To 
finance the purchase, Mr and Mrs H took out a £20,754 loan with Shawbrook over 15 years. 
The new loan covered the loan which had been taken out to pay for the trial membership. 
In January 2021 N wrote to Shawbrook on behalf of Mr and Mrs H. N said that the letter was 
not a complaint but a letter of claim  that is, a letter written as a prelude to legal action. It 
said, in summary:
The purpose of the meeting in August 2019 was to sell membership in CLCs Fractional 
Property Owners Club. This had not been made clear to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H were told the product was an investment.
The sales process was lengthy and pressured. 
The meeting in September 2019 was also a high pressure sales event, disguised as an 
update meeting. 
As had happened in August 2019, Mr and Mrs H were given no paperwork until the end 
of the event and had no time to read it. 
Mr and Mrs H were told that the product was an investment and they could benefit from 
the sale of property in which they had a share.
CLC was placed into administration in November 2020. Documents show it was a sales 
arm with no interest in the properties in which it was selling fractional rights. 
The commission paid to CLC had not been disclosed. 
The contracts did not make it clear that the products sold were timeshare or long term 
holiday contracts. 
A single payment had been taken, in breach of regulation 26 of The Timeshare, Holiday 
Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare 
Regulations).   
The effect of this and other breaches of consumer protection was that Mr and Mrs H 
had a claim against Shawbrook under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act and that 
the loan agreements created an unfair relationship under section 140A of the same act.
Shawbrook did not treat Ns letter as a letter of claim under the Civil Procedure Rules 1998 
but as a complaint within the meaning of the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules dealing 
with dispute resolution (DISP). It also sought comments from CLC. I summarise below the 
main points it made in its response;
In both cases, Mr and Mrs H had a 14-day cooling-off period in which they could have 
cancelled their agreements with CLC and the loan agreements. 
They had signed statements to confirm that they had been given enough time to 
consider the loan agreements and had not been coerced into doing so.
They had also signed a statement to say that they understood the trial membership was 
designed to test club membership, not to provide any kind of resale opportunity or 
investment. 
At no time was it suggested that Mr and Mrs H were buying an interest in any specific 
property. 
Mr and Mrs H were not given any investment advice. 
Holiday availability was not guaranteed, but in any event Mr and Mrs H had booked 
holidays in 2020. They had been unable to take them because of the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Mr and Mrs H were told that CLC might be entitled to commission. Details were 
available on request.  
In conclusion, Shawbrook said that it thought the claims made were unfounded. 
Mr and Mrs H referred the matter to this service. Our investigator did not however 
recommend that it be upheld. Mr and Mrs H did not accept the investigators conclusions and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
I did that and issued a provisional decision, inviting both parties to make further submissions 
if they wanted to do so. I said:
Relevant legislation and its effect
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint arises to a large extent from the actions of CLC at the time of sale 
and subsequently. There are some circumstances in which the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
gives a debtor rights against a provider of credit in respect of the actions of a supplier of 
goods or services. 
I must determine Mr and Mrs Hs complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  having regard, amongst other things, to any relevant 
law. I set out below extracts of the Consumer Credit Act which I consider to be most relevant 
in this case:11 Restricted-use credit and unrestricted-use credit.
(1) A restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement

(b) to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier ) other than the 
creditor

12 Debtor-creditor supplier agreements.
A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement being

(b) a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the 
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier

19 Linked transactions.
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any other person 
( the other party ), except one for the provision of security, is a linked transaction in relation 
to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal agreement ) of which it does 
not form part if

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the transaction is 
financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement

56 Antecedent negotiations.
(1) In this Act antecedent negotiations  means any negotiations with the debtor or hirer

(c) conducted by the supplier in relation to a transaction financed or proposed to be financed 
by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement within section 12(b) or (c), and negotiator  means 
the person by whom negotiations are so conducted with the debtor or hirer.
(2) Negotiations with the debtor in a case falling within subsection (1)(b) or (c) shall be 
deemed to be conducted by the negotiator in the capacity of agent of the creditor as well as 
in his actual capacity.

75 Liability of creditor for breaches by supplier
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
140A Unfair relationships between creditors and debtors
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more of the following(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or after 
the making of the agreement or any related agreement)

140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1) An order under this section in connection with a credit agreement may do one or more of 
the following
(a) require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay (in whole or in 
part) any sum paid by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the agreement or any related 
agreement (whether paid to the creditor, the associate or the former associate or to any 
other person);
(b) require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or not to do (or to 
cease doing) anything specified in the order in connection with the agreement or any related 
agreement;
(c) reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(d) direct the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the purposes of a 
security;
(e) otherwise set aside (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor or on a surety by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f) alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g) direct accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, between any 
persons 

I am satisfied that Shawbrook provided finance for both sales as a result of pre-existing 
arrangements it had with CLC. The effect of that is:
Shawbrook is responsible for statements made by CLC in connection with both the 
loans and the sales of the products financed by them. 
If Mr and Mrs H have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against CLC, 
they have a like claim against Shawbrook. 
In considering whether either loan creates an unfair relationship between Mr and Mrs H 
on the one hand and Shawbrook on the other, I can take into account the sales 
contracts as well as the loan agreements.  
I have therefore considered Mr and Mrs Hs submissions on these points. 
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. Mr and Mrs H say that they were told that their purchase would be an investment and that 
they would share in the sale proceeds when fractional ownership properties were sold. That 
is not however supported by any of the sale documents  which in fact contradict that. They 
didnt buy a fractional ownership timeshare  by which I mean an arrangement whereby 
timeshare properties are to be sold after a fixed period and the proceeds of sale are shared 
among all the fractional owners. 
It was clear from the contract that Mr and Mrs H signed that what they bought in September 
2019 was a points-based timeshare interest, where they could exchange an annual points 
allocation for holiday accommodation and other benefits. They also signed statements 
saying that the primary purpose of their purchase was for holidays, not as an interest or 
investment in real estate.
Mr and Mrs H have suggested that the entering into administration of CLC means that it 
cannot fulfil its contractual obligations. That appears however to be based on a 
misunderstanding or misrepresentation of what those obligations are. They do not include 
the sale of fractional ownership rights  which in any case are not what Mr and Mrs H 
bought. Their own rights as club members are not affected by the administration of CLC, 
since club resorts are run and managed by different companies. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any linked transaction.
I am satisfied that the two timeshare agreements in this case were linked transactions (that 
is, linked to each respective the loan agreement) within the meaning of section 19 of the 
Consumer Credit Act.   
I have therefore considered whether the sales and subsequent events are likely to mean that 
the loan agreements (or either of them) created an unfair relationship. 
N says that, in breach of the Timeshare Regulations, Mr and Mrs H were not told in advance 
that they were attending sales presentations. CLC disputes this. Be that as it may, Mr and 
Mrs H would have found out during the course of each presentation that it was a sales pitch. 
They were not obliged to proceed with a purchase, but chose to go ahead. It was perfectly 
clear from the sales documentation that they were buying a trial membership and then a 15-
year points-based membership. So, even if Mr and Mrs H did not realise out the outset that 
they had been invited to a sales presentation, they knew before they agreed to purchase 
what the nature of each meeting was. And they could have withdrawn from any sale within 
14 days.  
Mr and Mrs H say too that they were pressured into buying. Again, that is denied by CLC. 
But I make similar observations to those I have made above. If Mr and Mrs H felt they had 
been unduly pressured or not given time to consider their decisions, they had 14 days in 
which to review them. The fact that they did not seek to exercise cancellation rights makes 
their allegations of undue pressure less credible. 
N has noted that regulation 26 of the Timeshare Regulations prohibits a single payment for a 
long-term holiday product. However, the claim that this is what Mr and Mrs H bought is not consistent with the claim that they bought a fractional ownership timeshare. In fact, they 
bought neither; they bought a trial club membership and then a points-based timeshare and 
club membership. Both were timeshare contracts within the meaning of regulation 7, so 
regulation 26 did not apply.
Only a court can make orders under section 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act. I 
can however make a wide range of awards, and could, if I thought it fair and reasonable to 
do so, require a lender to, for example, refund loan payments or write off a loan. I do not 
believe however that I should do so here.
In the circumstances, I believe that Shawbrooks response to Mr and Mrs Hs claims was 
reasonable.
Neither Mr and Mrs H nor Shawbrook responded to my provisional decision with any further 
evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion from that set out in my provisional decision. In saying that, I stress that I 
have considered the case afresh before issuing this decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman