DRN-2826572
The complaint
 Mr L is unhappy with the level of service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
following a road traffic accident. 
What happened
 Mr L had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. On 24 December 2020, Mr L was involved in 
a road traffic accident. He contacted Aviva who said a breakdown service would be sent to 
collect him from the location. 
There was a delay in the breakdown service arriving, so Mr L contacted Aviva using its 24/7 
helpline. He also tried to get an update from the breakdown service but was unable to get 
through. Police on the scene of the accident advised Mr L to arrange for another breakdown 
service to collect him. Although Mr L continued to try and reach Aviva, he didnt manage to 
speak to anyone until 29 December.  At this point, Mr L made a formal complaint to Aviva.
Aviva accepted that the service provided to Mr L could have been better and apologised for 
this. In recognition of the poor level of service, Aviva offered £200 compensation. 
Mr L didnt agree and brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and she agreed the service provided by Aviva could have been better. She 
acknowledged the claim could have been handled better but looking at the subsequent 
impact on Mr L meant that she recommended Aviva increase the compensation offered to 
£350 in total.
Aviva didnt accept the investigators recommendation and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. This sets out what to do if the vehicle is 
involved in an accident. I can see in a situation where the policyholder has an accident with 
a third party and caused them injury and or/damage to a vehicle/property, Aviva says its 
claims service is available 24/7, every day of the year. 
The accident happened at around 1pm on 24 December. Mr L managed to get through to 
Aviva who informed that a tow truck would arrive. He received a call from Aviva around 3pm 
which confirmed that a tow truck would arrive. No-one arrived by 4pm and Mr L tried calling 
Aviva again but didnt get through. He even tried calling the breakdown company directly, but 
they were unable to help. 
When no-one arrived by around 5pm, the car was recovered by Highways England and 
taken away to a recovery site at around 6:30pm. Mr L arrived home at around 7pm and he 
tried to call Aviva but there was no response. 
Mr L sent footage of the accident, filed a claim by email to Aviva on 26 December and tried 
calling it again on 27 December but was unable to get through. On 28 December, I 
understand he received a text from the breakdown service about being towed away.
Mr L managed to speak to Aviva on 29 December. In the meantime, he experienced distress 
and felt unwell with anxiety. He said not being able to contact Aviva until 29 December 
caused him frustration and worry. He had no further updates except a text message from the 
breakdown company which was days later than it should have been. He visited his GP and 
received referral for an assessment with a counsellor. 
Having considered everything, I acknowledge that Aviva accepted the service it provided 
could have been better. It apologised and offered £200 compensation. I do think the impact 
of what happened affected Mr L. I can understand that the accident happened on 
24 December 2020 and it was a particularly busy day. The terms and conditions of the policy 
say a helpline is available for claims 24/7, every day of the year. Taking this into account, Mr 
L contacted Aviva and reported the incident on 24 December. Following that, he received a 
text from the breakdown service a few days later and nothing else despite him trying to 
contact Aviva too in the meantime. It wasnt until 29 December 2020 that he was able to get 
through and talk to someone at Aviva and when he made a formal complaint. 
With all of the above in mind and, understandably, being involved in a road traffic accident, 
left an impact on Mr L which made him feel anxious, worried and frustrated. I dont think 
Aviva has taken all of this into account in its assessment of the complaint. Additionally, there 
were unnecessary delays caused and Mr L experienced a lack of communication and 
updates from Aviva. 
Aviva says the helpline was available 24/7 and that was also the case when the accident 
happened on 24 December 2020. I understand this but the point is that even though the 
helpline was open, the service received on 24 December as well as the days following the 
accident wasnt to the level Mr L should have expected. 
As such, Im satisfied that £350 is the appropriate amount of compensation. I agree with the 
investigator that this is a fair and reasonable award in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Putting things right
 Aviva should pay Mr L a total compensation of £350 for the poor level of service provided. If 
its already paid Mr L £200 it offered previously, it should pay the remaining amount to Mr L.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited. It 
should award Mr L £350 in total and I think thats fair and reasonable.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman