DRN-3871560
The complaint
Miss F and Mr O have complained about their car insurer Zurich Insurance PLC because it 
has declined their claim made following a fire.
What happened
Miss F called Zurich on 20 December 2021  she reported that, whilst driving, the car had 
begun to lose power and when shed pulled over shed noted smoke, then flames coming 
from the engine. The fire though was small and extinguished immediately so there was no 
need for emergency services to be involved. Zurich felt the car would likely be a total loss 
and so took it to its salvage yard. This meant that Miss F and Mr O were not given a 
courtesy car. In January, Zurich declined Miss F and Mr Os claim. The salvage company 
were instructed to return the car to Miss F and Mr O, but Miss F and Mr O refused to have 
the car back. They complained. Later they sold the damaged car to Zurichs salvage agent. 
Zurich had initially told Miss F and Mr O that the engineer had said that the fire was the 
result of a mechanical failure  which was why it was declining the claim. Zurich later 
explained that when the claim was made it was felt the car would likely be a total loss  
which was why, in line with the policy wording, no courtesy car had been provided (which is 
only given when a car is being repaired). Zurich again said that the policy wont cover any 
mechanical failure, and also that Miss F and Mr O were expected to make sure the car was 
in a roadworthy condition. Following the complaint to us Zurich clarified that whilst it did not 
doubt there had been a fire, its engineer had found no signs of smoke or fire damage which 
meant there was nothing covered by the policy for it to fix.
Miss F and Mr O remained unhappy about the car being viewed as a total loss from the 
outset when actually it could have been repaired, that Zurichs decision to treat the car in 
that way meant theyd not had a courtesy car  even though at one stage they were told they 
could have one for four days and, overall, that the claim had been declined. They confirmed 
the car had been maintained, with an oil change and bulb repair occurring just the week 
before the fire. They explained theyd felt unable to take the car back from Zurichs salvage 
agent as it had been with it for so long, and the agent only gave them £235 for the car, 
which, if fixed, they felt was worth around £3,000.
Our Investigator noted that the engineer had found no fire damage  that a mechanical 
failure was responsible for the damage to the car. She also noted that damage caused by 
mechanical failure is specifically excluded from the cover. Our Investigator, therefore, felt 
Zurich had declined the claim reasonably. She further felt that it having considered the car a 
total loss from the outset, meaning no courtesy car was provided to Miss F and Mr O, was 
reasonable also. She said that as Miss F and Mr O had refused to have the car back, she 
couldnt blame Zurich for it having been with its salvage agent, unrepaired and undriven for 
so long. So she did not uphold the complaint.
Miss F and Mr O were unhappy. They sent an invoice from their garage, dated the week 
before the accident, which showed a bulb had been changed. Miss F said that to change the 
bulb all wiring under the bonnet had to be checked. Our Investigator explained that this does 
not show that the problem which occurred the week after the wiring was checked was not 
the result of a mechanical fault. Miss F said she had more receipts for work done on the 
vehicle, including an oil change, which she would send. No further detail was received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this was a difficult time for Miss F and Mr O  that being without a car 
affected their Christmas and Miss F being able to get their baby to health appointments. But 
I dont think that Zurich can reasonably be blamed for the difficulties they experienced.
Miss F and Mr Os policy only provides then with a courtesy car if their car is being repaired 
by Zurichs garage. And Zurichs initial assessment of the car, by trained claims handlers 
using technology derived by Zurichs engineers, was that the car would likely be a total loss. 
In this case that didnt mean that the car couldnt be repaired  just that in the event the 
damage was covered by the policy, it would not be economical for Zurich to do so. And, in 
that respect I note that Miss F felt the car was worth around £3,00 and that Zurichs engineer 
stated that to repair the car, which would entail replacing the engineer, would likely cost 
around £6,000. So Zurich made the correct decision initially. And the course the claim took, 
including that no courtesy car was provided, was fair and reasoble. Zurich, in my view, did 
not fail Miss F and Mr O in this respect.
Zurich, at one stage, did suggest to Miss F that even though the car was being treated as a 
total loss a courtesy car might be available for a few days. However, I see from the call notes 
that the advisor said they were not sure about the cover and that to get the correct detail 
Miss F would need to speak to a different department. Within a day Zurich confirmed to 
Miss F that no courtesy car would be available, for any period. I can see this might have 
been frustrating for Miss F. But I dont think this amounted to Zurich having promised to 
provide a courtesy car, or to it having misled Miss F into thinking that one would be provided. 
I dont think Zurich failed Miss F and Mr O In this respect. 
Ive considered the engineers report about the damage to the car. I can see that he couldnt 
find any sign of fire or smoke damage. The engineer concluded that the cars engine had 
overheated due to a perished gasket. He also felt the car hadnt been well maintained, 
noting particularly that one of the tyres was in an illegal state. I think Zurich has considered 
its engineers expert opinion and applied it to the policy terms fairly and reasonably. 
The policy does offer cover for fire damage. But the engineer found no sign of fire damage. 
The policy otherwise covers the car for damage unless excluded. The relevant exclusions 
are for damage caused by mechanical failure and wear and tear. A perished gasket and an 
overheated engine can, I think, reasonably be described as mechanical failure and wear and 
tear. Further, whilst Miss F and Mr O have shown that a bulb was replaced, and I know that 
the car passed an MOT earlier in the year; that doesnt mean that wear and tear wont  have 
occurred or will have been prevented. And sometimes the effects of wear on a car just cant 
be avoided. But Zurich, like most insurers on the market has chosen to not provide cover for 
damage caused by mechanical failure or wear and tear. It was reasonable for Zurich, in my 
view, to rely on its experts opinion and I think it has applied the policy terms fairly in light of 
that. I dont think Zurich failed Miss F and Mr O in this respect. 
The other policy term Zurich referred to was Miss F and Mr Os duty to keep the car in a 
roadworthy condition. And I note, as mentioned above, that the car did pass an MOT a few 
months before the incident. But a car having passed an MOT doesnt mean that a driver can ignore certain signs of wear to the car through the rest of the year until the next MOT. Here 
Zurichs engineer found that one of the cars tyres was in an illegal state. That would mean 
the car was not roadworthy and had not been maintained in a roadworthy condition as the 
policy requires. However, it seems this wouldnt have affected the incident which occurred. 
So if Zurich had sought to rely on this breach of condition alone to decline the claim, it is 
possible that would have been seen as unfair and unreasonable of it. But that wasnt the 
case here. Here Zurich, by virtue of its experts evidence, found that the damage to the car 
just wasnt covered by the policy. As I said, I think that was a fair and reasonable conclusion. 
I know that Miss F and Mr O feel that, in the end they had to sell the car as it was stood for 
too long without being used. But I note that Zurich came to its decision on the claim decline 
after just a month of the incident occurring, and that was over the Christmas period. I also 
note that within a few days of Zurichs decline being communicated to Miss F and Mr O, 
Zurich tried to arrange for the car to be returned to them but that they werent prepared to 
cooperate with this. Ultimately, I think the car remained with Zurich because of Miss F and 
Mr Os decision to not have the car returned to them. I know they told Zurich theyd received 
legal advice in this respect. But I cant fault Zurich for, having reached its decision on 
declining the claim, wanting to ensure the car was returned so that Miss F and Mr O could 
then decide what to do with it. 
I think that, overall, Zurich handled and decided this claim fairly and reasonably. In saying 
that I note that Miss F experienced some missed call backs but that Zurichs complaint 
handler took oversight of the claim and acted to mitigate the lack of communication issues 
as well as the frustration that they caused Miss F. I think that was a reasonable thing for 
Zurich to do in the circumstances. And I note that much of Miss F and Mr Os upset and 
frustration has arisen because of the lack of a courtesy car and ultimately the claim decision. 
And in both these respects Ive found that Zurich did not fail them. 
I note that following our view Miss F and Mr O told us they were concerned about a letter 
theyd received from Zurich demanding reimbursement of its engineers and recovery fee. 
I dont know why Zurich has asked for these funds to be repaid to it. But as the 
reimbursement was asked for after the complaint was made to ourselves, with Miss F and 
Mr O bringing their concerns about it to us after our view was issued, I cant consider this 
within this decision. If Miss F and Mr O still have concerns about this, they should tell Zurich. 
If they remain unhappy after Zurich has issued its final response, then they can make a 
further complaint. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Zurich Insurance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman