DRN-4120551
The complaint
Mr P complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) told him that a 
pension fund switch could be put on hold, but then allowed the switch to go ahead.
What happened
On 27 September, Mr P submitted an online request to switch his fund from Balanced
Lifestyle to cash. He then called Aegon the following day to ask that the switch be placed on
hold. Aegon advised Mr P that the switch could be put on hold at that time.
The switch then went ahead on 29 September. Mr P found out about this and made a
complaint to Aegon.
On 6 October, Aegon accepted it had wrongly told Mr P the switch could be put on hold. It
decided to reverse the switch that day and put the funds back into Balanced Lifestyle. Mr P
was unhappy with the way Aegon had handled his complaint, and that Aegon had taken
action before checking this was what he wanted at the time. On 10 October, Mr P requested
a switch back to cash, and I understand this was completed on 12 October.
Aegon thought it had put right its error by reversing the switch. However, it accepted that the
matter had caused Mr P stress and upset. Aegon offered him £250 compensation initially,
but later increased this to £500. Mr P didnt accept this offer, and brought his complaint to
this Service.
Our Investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Aegon hadnt taken the
correct action to put matters right. He recommended that Aegon perform a calculation as if
the switch to cash had gone ahead on 29 September. But he thought the evidence
supported that Mr P would have switched back to the Balanced Lifestyle fund on 3 October,
so also recommended that Aegon take this into account in the calculation.
Our Investigator said that we couldnt consider Mr Ps concerns about Aegons complaint
handling, as he thought this fell outside our jurisdiction. Finally, he was of the view that the
£500 compensation Aegon had offered was reasonable and reflected the impact the error
had had upon Mr P.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 April 2023. Heres what I said:
Its not in dispute that Aegon gave Mr P wrong information when it advised him on 28
September that the switch request put through the previous day could be placed on hold.
When a business has done something wrong, the aim of this Service is to place the
consumer back in the position they would have been if not for the error (as far as possible).
The switch couldnt be put on hold or cancelled. Aegons decision to reverse the switch on 6
October therefore didnt place Mr P back in the position he would have been, if not for its
error. Thats because, regardless of the wrong advice Aegon gave Mr P about the matter, he
should have been invested in cash on 29 September.
On 3 October, Mr P told Aegon that he wanted it to switch his funds back from cash to
Balanced Lifestyle with a financial uplift. I see theres been some discussion between Mr P
and our Investigator about whether Aegon should take this into account in its calculations to
put matters right.
It seems to me that Mr P wanted Aegon to put right what he thought was its error, in failing to
put his initial switch request on hold. However, Mr P could have actioned the switch from
cash back to Balanced Lifestyle himself on 3 October (or at any point between 29
September and 6 October) if hed wanted to do this.
So I dont think Mr Ps email of 3 October should be taken as confirmation that he wanted a
switch back to Balanced Lifestyle to take place based on the prices of that day. I therefore
dont intend to require Aegon to take into account Mr Ps request of 3 October to go back
into Balanced Lifestyle in its calculations.
Mr P says that Aegons actions prevented him from dipping in and out of the two funds to
take advantage of the market conditions at the time.
We dont know for certain what Mr P would have done, if hed known the initial switch
couldnt be placed on hold. He says he wanted to be in Balanced Lifestyle on 29 September,
and then intended to move into cash a couple of days later. But he couldnt remain in the
Balanced Lifestyle fund as hed already requested a switch to cash which couldnt be
stopped. I understand Mr Ps point that he intended to dip in and out of the two funds to take
advantage of the market conditions, but we cant be sure what action Mr P would have taken
and when.
So I find a reasonable outcome would be for Aegon to carry out a calculation of the fund
value as if it had not reversed the fund switch on 6 October. In other words, as though Mr P
had remained invested in cash from 29 September until he switched back into this fund on
12 October. If Mr P would have been better off, then Aegon should pay Mr P the difference.
Our investigator said we dont have jurisdiction to consider complaints about a financial
business complaint handling. That is correct, if a complaint is solely about the way a
business has handled a complaint. However, in Mr Ps case, I think his concerns about
Aegons handling of his complaint were connected to his concerns about Aegons initial error
in respect of the fund switch. So I find that this does fall within our jurisdiction.
Whilst I appreciate Aegon was attempting to put matters right for Mr P by reversing the
switch on 6 October, I think it ought to have discussed this with Mr P before taking any
action. Particularly as Aegon was aware that Mr P was distressed about the situation. I also
understand that Aegon gave Mr P conflicting information about timescales for looking into his
complaint.
Its apparent that Aegons initial error caused Mr P confusion, and this was then
compounded by the way Aegon tried to put matters right. Mr P was on holiday abroad at the
time and, due to the stress that the matter was causing him, he cut short his holiday to return
to the UK five days earlier than planned.
Aegon has offered Mr P £500 compensation, but I intend to require it to increase this to
£650. Whilst I appreciate the initial error itself was not particularly significant, its clear that
the overall impact on Mr P was. This compensation also takes into account Aegons handling
of the complaint.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. Aegon remained of the view that the action it had taken was reasonable in the 
circumstances. It said it had treated Mr P as a vulnerable customer, and he had said that he 
wouldnt have gone through with the switch to cash. Aegon says it therefore reversed the 
switch to place him back in the position he would have been in.  
Aegon also said Mr P waited until 10 October before switching his funds back into cash, and 
it thought customers were supposed to mitigate their loss. 
Finally, Aegon said that Mr P has transferred his pension to another provider, and wanted 
clarification about the date it should use for the price comparison, and what it should do with 
the funds.
Mr P didnt have any comments about my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aegons initial error was that it wrongly advised Mr P that the switch could be placed on hold. 
It could have paid some compensation to him for his disappointment in later finding out that 
this wasnt correct. But it didnt need to reverse the switch as this had already been put 
through before he received the wrong advice. So, regardless of the wrong advice Aegon 
gave Mr P about the matter, he should have been invested in cash on 29 September. 
Mr P switched back to cash on 10 October. I dont know what the fund prices were between 
6 October and 10 October, so I cant say that Mr P should have taken action to mitigate his 
losses by switching back to cash before 10 October. Its also the case that it takes a couple 
of days for a switch request to be actioned. Ultimately, my aim is to place Mr P back in the 
position he would have been, if not for Aegons initial error. I remain satisfied the fairest way 
to do this would be for Aegon to calculate the fund value as if it had not reversed the fund 
switch on 6 October  in other words, if Mr P had remained invested in cash from 29 
September until he switched back on 12 October. 
Aegon says Mr P has now transferred his pension fund elsewhere. Ive taken this into 
account in the below redress wording. Mr P has also confirmed he is happy for the funds to 
be paid to the SIPP where he transferred his Aegon pension, or it can set up a new pension 
fund (invested in cash) and he could action the transfer himself.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon to calculate the position Mr P would be in if 
he had remained invested in cash from 29 September until he switched back into this fund 
on 12 October. If this is higher than Mr Ps position was at the date he transferred his 
pension elsewhere, it should make up the difference by paying Mr P compensation.
Aegon should pay any compensation due into Mr P's pension plan (options detailed above). 
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.If the compensation cannot be paid into Mr Ps pension plan, it should be paid directly to 
him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income, so
the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would
otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current
basic rate of tax. If he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Aegon should provide Mr P with a copy of its calculations in an understandable format.
I also require Aegon to pay Mr P £650 additional compensation (less any amount
already paid), which should be paid directly to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman