DRN-3975365
The complaint
Ms R complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a claim under her legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
In 2015, Ms R made a claim under the legal expenses insurance section of her commercial 
property owners policy to gain repossession of her property. It took several years to find an 
appropriate solicitor to take on the claim, and in 2018 a solicitor of Ms Rs own choice was 
instructed to act on her behalf. 
Ms R successfully obtained a possession order, but the defendants were unable to pay the 
damages awarded. The legal advice from Ms Rs solicitor was that the recovery of these 
damages didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. As this was a condition of cover 
under the policy, Aviva advised that it wouldnt be prepared to fund the claim any further and 
cover was withdrawn.
In 2022, Ms R returned to Aviva as she had new evidence which she believes shows the 
defendants could pay the damages. She asked for cover to be reinstated for her claim. Aviva 
said it would need to obtain legal advice to determine whether the claim now enjoyed 
reasonable prospects of success. It asked for Ms Rs consent to instruct a panel firm to 
review the new evidence. 
Ms R raised a complaint. Aviva maintained its position but gave Ms R an alternative option; 
she could nominate a solicitor of her own choice to provide the legal advice on prospects. It 
also offered £200 compensation for the delay in responding to the complaint. As Ms R 
remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our Service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied Aviva had acted in line with 
the policy terms and conditions by requiring a prospects assessment and that it hadnt acted 
unfairly. Ms R didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ms R has raised concerns that she hasnt been able to put forward her evidence 
or arguments to support her complaint. I can see that weve given several opportunities for 
this information to be provided. And as its been several months since our latest deadline 
has expired without receipt of anything further from Ms R, Ive proceeded with my 
consideration of the complaint based on the information available.
The terms and conditions of Ms Rs legal expenses insurance policy says it will cover a valid 
claim provided thatprospects of success exist for the duration of the claim. The policy 
defines prospects of success as follows:
In respect of all civil cases, it is always more likely than not that an Insured Person 
will
1) recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed to
2) make a successful defence
3) make a successful appeal or defence of an appeal
Prospects of success will be assessed by us or an appointed representative on our 
behalf.
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, Aviva received advice from Ms Rs own chosen solicitors that recovery was not 
possible from the defendants. Based on this advice, Im satisfied it was fair for Aviva to 
conclude that there werent reasonable prospects of recovering damages as required by the 
policy and its decision to withdraw cover was fair in the circumstances. 
Ms R has now provided new evidence which she believes shows that there are prospects of 
recovery. Aviva should consider this new evidence to determine whether cover should be 
reinstated but, as stated in the policy, it will need to obtain a legal assessment on the 
updated position of prospects and whether it has in fact improved. 
To do this, Aviva will need to either seek advice from one of its panel firms or allow Ms R 
freedom to choose her own solicitor. I can see that Aviva has put forward both options, so 
its now for Ms R to decide how she wishes to proceed. I appreciate Ms R disagrees with 
Avivas position, but I cant fairly ask an insurer to put cover in place for a claim that it hasnt 
had the opportunity to assess first to ensure the policys terms and conditions are met. 
So if Ms R would like Aviva to reconsider her claim, she will need to co-operate with the 
claims process.
Finally, Aviva has offered £200 for their delay in issuing a response to Ms Rs complaint. If 
she wishes to accept this, shell need to contact Aviva directly to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman