DRN-3586987
The complaint
Mr H complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent money to him irresponsibly on a high cost loan, 
such that he was unable to afford the repayments.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr H with a loan of £1,000 on 18 December 2021, repayable over 18 
months at the monthly rate of around £206. Mr H said he took the loan out to pay for 
Christmas presents for his severely disabled children, but the interest rate was so  high he 
couldnt affords the repayments. He said he had multiple payday loans at the time of taking 
out the loan.
Loans 2 Go carried out verification checks on Mr Hs income and outgoings, including a 
credit check. It assessed the loan as being affordable. It noted Mr Hs complaint about the 
interest rate but pointed out that the rate was displayed on the loan agreement documents, 
which Mr H had the opportunity to consider during the 14 day cooling off period at the start of 
the loan.
After a referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our adjudicator said that Loans 2 Go 
acted reasonably and that the checks it did wouldnt have alerted it to Mr H being unable to 
afford the repayments.
Mr H disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
On reviewing the credit report from the time of the application, I note that Mr H had one 
credit card with a £384 balance on it, a large HP (hire purchase) loan with £413 monthly 
payments and two other loans. I note also that he had a defaulted loan with a balance of 
£723 which was with a debt collector. However, this loan had defaulted in December 2017 
and there were no recent defaults on his record. Allowing payments of 5% of the balance on 
the credit card and the defaulted loan, I calculate Mr Hs credit commitments at the time to 
be around £517.
I cant see evidence of multiple loans on Mr Hs credit record. However not all loans may be 
shown on credit reports, especially if taken out recently. If there were other loans it was up to 
Mr H to tell Loans 2 Go about them. On the basis of the checks it did I think it was 
reasonable of Loans 2 Go to rely on them for details of Mr Hs credit history. And also on the 
basis of those checks I dont think there was anything in them to alert Loans 2 Go to carry 
out any more detailed checks.
So, it was for Loans 2 Go to consider whether the loan was affordable to Mr H, considering 
the factors I have set out above. On the basis that he was not going to pay off any of his 
existing credit, adding the new loan payments would have meant him paying about 27% of 
his net income on credit commitments. Though I note that this was mainly because of an HP 
loan. 
So his ability to afford the loan would have depended on the amount of monthly disposable 
income he would have had left after paying all his commitments and living expenses. His 
living expenses were calculated at about £1,500. His disposable income, after taking 
account of the new loan instalment would have been around £425. And on that basis I think the loan was reasonably assessed as being affordable to Mr H.
As regards the interest charge charged, I appreciate that this was high, but it was up to 
Loans 2 Go how much its interest charge was, so long as it made Mr H aware of it.  But the 
payments to be made and the actual interest rate was set out in the documents Mr H saw 
before agreeing to the loan. So he would have known how much the loan was going to cost 
him, and, as Loans 2 Go pointed out, he had 14 days during which time he could have 
withdrawn. 
I think that Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate checks to assess the affordability of this 
loan. I think it made a fair lending decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman