DRN-3397859
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Amtrust Europe Limited dealt with a claim he made under a 
property owners legal expenses policy. Reference to Amtrust includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr S is a landlord and in August 2019, he took out a policy with 
Amtrust which covers legal costs in certain proceedings with a tenant. Mr S also took out 
optional rent guarantee cover, which provides a monthly rental benefit where the tenant 
fails to pay the rent, subject to the policy terms and conditions.   
In August 2019, Mr S entered into a tenancy agreement. The rent was £1,200 a month. 
Mr S didnt take the deposit of £1,661.52 from the tenant but instead, was the beneficiary 
of a zero deposit guarantee scheme taken out by the tenant with another insurer. The 
cost of that policy to the tenant was £276.92. That scheme protects Mr S in relation to 
financial loss, such as rent arrears, up to the guarantee value of £1,661.52.         
In November 2019, Mr S contacted Amtrust about a claim against his rent guarantee 
cover, as the tenant was in default in relation to rent payments. He later made a claim 
against the policy in relation to possession proceedings. Amtrust accepted and settled 
Mr S claim in relation to possession proceedings. In January 2021, Mr S obtained an 
order for possession of the property. 
I understand that in February 2021, Mr S received £1,661.52 as the beneficiary of the 
zero deposit rent guarantee scheme, which is the equivalent of the deposit the tenant 
would have paid.  
Amtrust declined Mr S claim against the rent guarantee cover part of his policy. It relied 
on a condition in the policy which says that an eligible claim is one where hed collected  
the first months rent and dilapidation deposit before allowing the tenant to occupy the 
property. It also relied on an exclusion for cases where Mr S or his letting agent cant 
prove that they took a minimum of one months rent as deposit before letting the 
property.
Mr S didnt accept Amtrusts position and pursued his complaint. He wants Amtrust to 
settle his claim and pay him the equivalent of six months rent payments. 
In response to an enquiry from the investigator, Amtrust said that its clearly a greater 
risk where the landlord lets the property to a tenant who doesnt have money to pay a 
deposit, as theres a greater risk of default by the tenant and therefore a claim on the 
policy. 
The investigator looked at what had happened. She said that it wasnt fair and 
reasonable for Amtrust to rely on the exclusion to which it referred. That was because 
she didnt think that Amtrusts position had been prejudiced by Mr S agreeing to a zero 
deposit rent guarantee scheme, rather than taking a deposit. 
The investigator said that theres no evidence that Mr S tenant didnt have money for a 
deposit and that its a requirement of Mr S policy with Amtrust that he obtain a 
satisfactory credit reference. She said that if Amtrust was aware that Mr S had entered 
into a zero deposit rent guarantee scheme, rather than taking a deposit, it would be 
unreasonable for it to decline the claim. 
Mr S agreed with the investigator. He said that it wasnt right for Amtrust to assume that 
the zero deposit guarantee scheme was in place because the tenant couldnt pay the 
deposit. Mr S said that at the time of setting up the tenancy, his estate agent said that 
the tenant was happy to pay the deposit but if he accepted the zero deposit guarantee 
scheme she would use the money she didnt pay for the deposit on decorating the 
property, which she did. 
Amtrust didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
The underwriter considers that a tenant not supplying a deposit is an 
unacceptable risk.
It was unaware that Mr S hadnt collected a deposit until it was notified of the 
claim.
The term requiring a full months rent or deposit before the tenant moves in is a 
standard condition in a rent guarantee policy and as a professional landlord, it 
was for Mr S to ensure that the policy met his needs. 
There is evidence that the tenant was unable to pay a deposit, as she didnt pay 
the first rent payment of £1,200 and paid only £1,500 of the £4,800 owed for the 
first four months of the tenancy. 
If Mr S had collected a deposit it could have been used to offset rent arrears.
Mr S recovery under the zero deposit guarantee scheme is irrelevant. If a 
deposit had been collected the tenant has an incentive to pay rent on time and 
maintain the condition of the property. In this case, the only loss to the tenant 
was the premium of £276.92 she paid for the zero deposit guarantee scheme 
whereas the deposit would have been £1,661.52. As the tenant has less financial 
interest in the property, the risk of a claim on the policy increases.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
 
OPTIONAL RENT GUARANTEE
[]
COVER
This policy provides a monthly rental benefit where Your Tenant fails to pay or defaults on 
their Rent payment.
1. ELIGIBILITY
For a Landlord to be eligible for cover:
[]
(sic) d. not allow any Tenant into occupation until the first month's Rent and dilapidation's
deposit payment has been paid in cash or payment has been cleared in the 
Landlord's or managing agent's bank account.
3. MONTHLY BENEFIT
a. Monthly Benefit will be paid in respect of arrears of Rent owed on an Insured Property 
by the Tenant to the Insured for up to six months or until vacant possession has been 
gained, whichever happens soonest, subject to the following:
[]
SPECIFIC RENT GUARANTEE POLICY EXCLUSIONS
[]
7. For disputes and or Legal Proceedings between You and a Tenant where You or Your 
letting or managing agent are unable to prove that a minimum of one months Rent as 
deposit was obtained before letting the Property to the Tenant.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Amtrust has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I uphold Mr S 
complaint for the following reasons: 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the  
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the 
policy, the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Amtrust seeks to rely on the exclusion in the policy which Ive set out above. Mr S 
didnt collect a deposit from the tenant, as required by the policy. So, on the face of 
it, Amtrust is entitled to rely on the exclusion to which its referred. But in deciding 
whether Amtrust has acted fairly in turning down Mr S claim, I need to consider 
whether Amtrusts position has been prejudiced by Mr S actions in this case. And I 
dont think it has for reasons Ill explain.  
Amtrust said that its clearly a greater risk where the landlord lets the property to 
a tenant who doesnt have money to pay a deposit, as theres a greater risk of 
default by the tenant and therefore a claim on the policy. It refers to the tenants subsequent non-payment of rent as evidence of her inability to pay a deposit at 
the outset. 
I dont think its necessarily the case that a tenant who enters a zero deposit 
guarantee scheme doesnt have the money required for a deposit. Ive seen no 
evidence that was the case here. Mr S says the estate agent told him that the 
tenant could pay the deposit in the usual way or enter into the zero deposit 
guarantee scheme and use the saving on decorating the property, which Mr S says 
she did. I dont think that subsequent non-payment of rent necessarily shows that 
the tenant couldnt afford to pay the deposit at the time the tenancy was granted. In 
reaching that view, Ive taken into account that the policy requires Mr S to obtain a 
satisfactory credit reference for the tenant before granting the tenancy, so there 
would have been some check on the tenants ability to pay the rent. 
Amtrust has provided an e-mail in response to a brokers enquiry which it says is 
from its underwriters and shows that it wouldnt accept the risk of a zero deposit 
guarantee scheme in place of a deposit. The enquiry wasnt from Mr S broker. 
Theres no suggestion that Amtrust told Mr S or his broker at the outset that it didnt 
cover claims where there was a zero deposit guarantee scheme in place. Similarly, 
I accept that Amtrust was unaware that Mr S hadnt collected a deposit until it was 
notified of the claim, but I dont think that alters the outcome here. 
Amtrust says that its underwriters consider that a tenant not supplying a deposit is 
an unacceptable risk. Essentially, Amtrust says that a tenant who doesnt pay a  
deposit is inherently a greater risk than a tenant who pays a deposit. But it hasnt 
provided any evidence to support that assertion. 
In this case, Mr S didnt simply fail to collect a deposit at the outset. He agreed to 
be the beneficiary of a zero deposit guarantee scheme instead of collecting the 
deposit. So, there was a guarantee that hed receive the deposit if certain events 
occurred, such as the tenant defaulting on the rent. So, I think that Mr S protected 
his position in relation to the deposit and, based on what Ive seen, he didnt 
increase Amtrusts risk or liability in doing so. And Amtrust can take into account 
the money Mr S received from the zero deposit guarantee scheme when dealing 
with his claim. 
Amtrust says that as the tenant paid only £276.92 at the outset - which was the 
premium for the zero deposit guarantee scheme  rather than the deposit of        
£1,661.52, she had a reduced incentive to pay rent on time, which increased the 
risk of a claim on the policy. I dont think thats the case. There are other incentives 
for a tenant to pay the rent on time, such as retaining a home and maintaining a 
good credit rating. I dont think that the initial saving of the difference between the 
cost of the premium and the deposit makes it more likely a tenant will default and 
therefore increases the risk to Amtrust of a claim by Mr S. And the provider of the 
zero deposit guarantee scheme is entitled to recover from the tenant any payment 
it makes to the beneficiary. So, whilst the tenant only paid the premium at the 
outset, she remained liable for the amount of the deposit. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Amtrust acted fairly and reasonably 
in declining Mr S claim and in relying on the exclusion to which its referred. Putting things right
In order to put things right, Amtrust should deal with the claim, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. In doing so, its entitled to take into account the money   
Mr S recovered as part of the zero deposit guarantee scheme. 
As Mr S has been kept out of the use of the money due under the policy, Amtrust should 
also pay interest on the amount of any  settlement, at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
the date of Mr S claim to the date it makes any payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Amtrust to take off tax from this interest. Amtrust must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited should now take 
the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman