DRN-4230333
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Nationwide Building Society no longer sends out an annual
breakdown of how interest is calculated and paid on her savings account.
Mrs W is also unhappy that Nationwide promised to send an interest calculation breakdown
during a phone call, but then didnt do this.
To resolve things, Mrs W would like for Nationwide to provide an interest calculation
breakdown, and compensation for having been promised information that then wasnt
delivered.
Mrs W is represented by her husband Mr W in this matter.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties setting out why I thought Mrs Ws complaint 
should be upheld, and invited both parties to provide any further submissions in reply to my 
provisional decision. 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision together with my 
provisional findings, which are included below and now form part of this final decision. 
Background 
On 4 January 2023 Mr W called Nationwide to request an interest calculation breakdown for
Mrs Ws savings account. During the call the Nationwide agent said a breakdown would be
sent out within 10 working days. (Ive listened to the call recording in question and will refer
to this in more detail later on.)
On 10 January 2023 Nationwide sent Mrs W a letter which set out the interest rates that had
been applied to her account during 2022. A breakdown of how the interest had been
calculated for Mrs Ws account was not provided.
Mr W contacted Nationwide on 13 January 2023 to complain that the wrong information had
been provided.
Nationwide did not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. They issued their final response in reply to the
complaint on 2 February 2023. The letter explained Nationwide try not to complete these
calculation breakdowns unless there is unusual activity on the account. Nationwide said this
was because they complete these breakdowns manually and they are time-consuming  so
they instead ask members to let them know if the interest on an account looks incorrect and
theyll then review each individual case.
Mrs W brought the complaint to our service, and our Investigator reviewed the matter. The
Investigator concluded Mrs Ws complaint should not be upheld.
In summary, the Investigator said there was no obligation for Nationwide to provide such a
breakdown, and to not do so was a business decision they were entitled to make. The
Investigator also noted that while Nationwide had given Mr W incorrect information in the call
on 4 January 2023, it was corrected soon after and there had been minimal impact to Mrs W,
so they didnt think any award was due. The Investigator also noted that Mr W had said they
did not believe anything to be wrong about the interest applied to the account.
Mr W disagreed with the Investigators findings.
In summary, Mr W said it was not acceptable for Nationwide to have promised something
and then not deliver on that promise. Mr W also said Nationwide had not told them that this
was a service they were no longer providing for their members, and he did not learn of this
until he raised the complaint for Mrs W.
Mr W also raised his concerns about how Nationwide then dealt with the complaint he
raised, as he was assured the complaint would be reviewed, but this didnt happen. Our
Investigator explained to Mr W that concerns with how a business handles their complaints
was not within our powers to look at.
As our Investigator could not reach a resolution, the complaint has come to me to decide.
My provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a different
outcome to our Investigator, and Ill explain why.
I agree with our Investigator in so far as I am unaware of any requirement for Nationwide to
provide the interest calculation breakdown that Mrs W is looking for. Offering this service
would be a commercial decision and not something I can interfere with. Ive also not seen
anything in the product literature to support that this was something Nationwide offered as
part of the terms and conditions of the account. So Im unable to say Nationwide have done
anything wrong in this regard.
However, having listened to the call recording between Mr W and Nationwide which took
place on 4 January 2023 I think the Nationwide agent did raise Mr and Mrs Ws expectations
by saying an interest calculation breakdown would be made available to Mrs W, but this did
not then happen and different information about the account was sent to Mrs W instead.
It is clear on the call that when Mr W initially requested the interest calculation breakdown
the Nationwide agent immediately explained that this was not something Nationwide offered
their members, and that it would be necessary for Mrs W to show her own workings out first.
Mr W responded to say they could not carry out a calculation as they did not know the
interest rates, and told the Nationwide agent the interest calculation breakdown was
something Mrs W had received in the past.
The agent reviewed Mrs Ws account and noted that Nationwide had produced this
document for Mrs W before, so they agreed to request this again for Mrs W. Mr W confirmed
that this would be a computation and not an interest certificate, to which the agent confirmed
that it would be the breakdown.
Nationwides letter of 10 January 2023 listed the different interest rates that had been
applied to Mrs Ws account together with the dates each rate became effective. The letter
also confirmed that Mrs Ws interest was being calculated correctly; that a computerised
method was used to calculate the interest; and that a leaflet was enclosed - which
Nationwide said would explain more about the calculation method. Lastly, the letter saidMrs W could get in touch with details of her own calculations if she thought Nationwide had
made a mistake.
In view of the exchange between Mr W and the Nationwide agent on the call, I think Mr W
was given conflicting information, and I think this gave rise to an expectation on
Mr and Mrs Ws part that they would receive the information they were looking for. I think its
fair to say this added to Mr and Mrs Ws inconvenience in trying to sort this out. For this
reason, I think Nationwide should recognise this inconvenience by paying £50 to Mrs W.
However, I dont think Mrs W has been impacted financially by not having had access to the
interest calculation breakdown  Mr W himself told our service that they did not suspect
anything to be wrong with the interest that had been applied. Mr W said they simply wanted
the calculation to check for themselves that nothing was wrong.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustration with this matter  it is a service theyve previously
received from Nationwide and, as Mr W has said, there was nothing to suggest that it was no
longer available. Mr W says he wasnt told this until he raised the complaint  although I
would refer back to the call with the Nationwide agent on 4 January 2023 in which they told
Mr W at the very start of the call that this wasnt a service Nationwide were offering.
Nationwide have explained they no longer provide this service to members as it is a costly
exercise and theyve noted that due to several changes in the interest rates during 2022 that
many more members have asked for this type of calculation. As Nationwide says the
calculation is carried out manually, they do not have the resources to carry on meeting this
demand, so they are prioritising those members who believe their calculations are wrong.
Mr W has queried whether the calculation is in fact carried out manually and whether it is
really that complicated to process. While I acknowledge Mr Ws points, I have no reason to
doubt that the calculation is carried out manually, and it is not for this service to say what
systems and processes a business has in place so there is nothing more I can say in relation
to this point.
I am unable to interfere with a businesss commercial decision making, so I dont think it
would be reasonable for me to now tell Nationwide to carry out the interest calculation
breakdown for Mrs Ws account. It may help Mr and Mrs W to understand that although
Mr W may have been given incorrect information it does not automatically follow that things
should be put right as if the misrepresentation had been true. If correct information had been
given from the outset, Nationwide would not have provided the interest calculation
breakdown. However, if Mr and Mrs W now believe there is something wrong with how
interest has been applied to Mrs Ws account, they can approach Nationwide separately
about this.
Im aware Mr W raised concerns about his experience with the complaint handling
department as he says he was again promised that something would happen and it did not.
Mr W says if he had not followed up with Nationwide, then he believes no one would have
updated him about the complaint.
I understand Mr Ws frustrations with how Nationwide initially handled the complaint, but as
our Investigator explained, its not within the remit of this service to be able to look at how
businesses handle complaints. It may also help Mr and Mrs W to understand that this
services role is to resolve individual complaints on the basis of what is fair and reasonable in
all the circumstances of the case, so this service cannot fine or punish a business  that is
something for the regulator to consider.
Responses to my provisional decision Nationwide replied to my provisional decision to accept the findings and agreed to pay     
Mrs W £50 to settle the matter. 
Neither Mrs W nor Mr W replied to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Nationwide accepted my provisional decision and neither Mrs W nor Mr W offered any 
further evidence or submissions for me to consider, I see no reason to alter my conclusions 
as set out in my provisional findings above. 
For the reasons above I think Nationwide raised Mrs W and Mr Ws expectations by 
suggesting the information they were seeking would be made available to them, but it was 
then not sent to them. And I think £50 is fair in the circumstances to recognise the 
inconvenience caused by this. However, as Ive explained above, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Nationwide to say that a breakdown of the interest calculation would not be 
possible unless Mrs W believed it to be wrong. 
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs W £50. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Ws complaint is upheld and Nationwide Building Society should 
put things right as Ive described above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman