DRN-3968041
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has paid to 
settle his complaint about two mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken 
out alongside personal loans.
What happened
Mr O told us he took out a number of personal loans with Lloyds over several years, starting 
in the early 1990s. Mr O had some copies of credit agreements, but Lloyds had virtually no 
records available  although as the loans seem to have been repaid many years ago, this is 
not surprising.
There are other complaints with this service, but this complaint refers to a series of three 
loans, with account numbers ending 3698, 4183 and 1484. The first two loans had PPI 
added to them. The premiums for the two PPI policies were charged to the loans as single 
premiums, which means the cost of each policy was added to the borrowing and was 
repayable over the term of the loan. A residual amount of the PPI cost was carried over into 
the third loan, although that loan did not have a further PPI policy added. 
Lloyds upheld Mr Os complaint that the PPI policies were mis-sold, but Mr O was unhappy 
with the compensation Lloyds offered and paid. Lloyds said the compensation aimed to put 
Mr O back in the position he would have been in had he not taken the PPI policies. However, 
Mr O wasnt satisfied that Lloyds had calculated the compensation correctly. Lloyds had 
written to Mr O in September 2021, saying the total amount due to him was £6,456.14, less 
tax amounting to £849.10, and had paid him the net amount of £5,607.04 shortly afterwards. 
Our adjudicator looked into this, and said he didnt think what Lloyds had offered Mr O was 
fair, so he upheld the complaint about the redress. Lloyds didnt agree and asked that the 
complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023, explaining why I disagreed with our 
adjudicator and therefore didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr O responded to say 
that he wasnt aware of having received any rebates. Lloyds didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds has upheld Mr Os complaint that the PPI was mis-sold on the first two loans, I am 
not looking at the sale of the PPI policies in this decision. I am only considering if Lloyds 
payment of compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint about the amount of compensation. Ill explain 
why.
In my provisional decision, I set out my findings as follows:
When a PPI policy attached to a loan has been mis-sold, the business needs, as far as 
possible, to put the consumer in the position they would have been in had they not taken out 
the policy.
Lloyds told us that loan ending 3698 was opened in September 1995 and closed in January 
1996, when it was refinanced into loan ending 4183, which carried on until August 1998. 
This in turn was refinanced into the final loan ending 1484 which carried on until December 
1998. Mr O sent in copies of credit agreements, which showed the cost of the single 
premium policies as being £773.06 for loan ending 3698 and £1,844.23 for loan ending 
4183. As I explained above, there was no PPI policy added to the third loan.
I can see from the letter Lloyds sent to Mr O in September 2021 that it had used incorrect 
figures for the PPI premiums - £1,246.70 and £1,726.20. When we pointed this out to Lloyds 
it recalculated the compensation due to Mr O and said that the correct amount was 
£6,340.89 before tax - less than it had already paid him - so nothing further was due.
Whilst the second calculation Lloyds provided showed the correct premium amounts, our 
adjudicator couldnt see that Lloyds had accounted for the full cost of the two PPI policies. 
So he thought the complaint should be upheld.
Lloyds responded to say that, from the limited information in its computer records, it had 
been able to establish the start dates, end dates, loan advances and terms for loans ending 
3698 and 4183. In its first calculation it made assumptions about the missing figures, such 
as the premiums, but when it received copies of the credit agreements it was able to make 
the second calculation.
Lloyds went on to say that, as Mr O paid off both of the first two loans before the end of the 
stated term, its reasonable to take it that a rebate of premium wouldve been paid on each 
loan. It said that due to the passage of time it doesnt hold the statements for the loans or the 
funding accounts, but while it cant evidence the rebates, it could confirm that unless Mr O 
had claimed on the policies (and I have seen nothing to suggest that he did) rebates 
wouldve been paid. So it said its calculation was correct.
Ive thought about what Lloyds has said. It is the case that, where a single premium PPI 
policy is added to a loan, the policy terms and conditions usually provide for a rebate of 
premium to be paid where the loan is repaid early, unless this happens towards the end of 
the loan term. (The amount of the rebate is not always proportionate to the premium, and the 
exact percentage will vary depending on the contractual length of the loan as against the 
actual length of the loan.)
Looking at the calculations Lloyds sent in, I can see that no rebate figures are explicitly 
mentioned. So the key question here is whether it is more likely than not that premium 
rebates were credited to the loans on repayment, and taken into account in the 
compensation calculation, albeit not referenced.
Because there is limited information, I have reached my conclusions based on whats most 
likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have 
told me and what we know about these types of loans and PPI.
Ive checked the amounts shown in the compensation calculation as premiums and interest 
that Mr O wouldve paid, and they look right based on the monthly PPI payments shown on 
the two credit agreements that Mr O sent in.We have copies of PPI policy documents issued by Lloyds at around the times Mr O took the 
loans, but unfortunately they dont give details of how much of the PPI premium would be 
refunded if the loan was repaid early, although they do provide for rebates. Later policies 
have some examples of what would be refunded, but of course I cant be certain that the 
same terms wouldve applied to Mr Os loans.
Nonetheless, looking at the first loan, taking the PPI premium and deducting the payments 
and interest that Lloyds has refunded, and the amount carried forward to the second loan 
would leave a figure equivalent to about 80% of the PPI premium. Although this is a rough 
calculation because of the limited information available, as the first loan was repaid within 
four months of the start date a rebate of that magnitude is plausible, based on what I can 
see from later Lloyds policies and what we know about rebate levels on single premium 
policies generally. Id expect to see a much lower level of rebate on the second loan  it ran 
for about half the contractual term, and the calculation figures appear to reflect this.
Because there is so little information about the loans and the transactions on them, Ive also 
thought about what we know from other Lloyds complaints about this type of PPI, and what 
we know generally about these types of loans and PPI. Ive not seen a case where a rebate 
due on a PPI policy has not been credited to the loan on early repayment.
Taking all this into account, my current conclusion is that its more likely than not that rebates 
on the PPI premiums were credited to the loans when they were repaid, and therefore that 
Lloyds has fully accounted for the premiums in its calculation of redress, even if not in its 
explanation.
It would have been helpful if Lloyds had explained the rebates and the assumptions it made 
in that respect when it wrote to Mr O about the redress, but on balance I think that the 
compensation which Lloyds paid to Mr O was calculated in the way in which this service 
would have expected in these circumstances.
Mr O responded to the provisional decision to say that he wasnt aware of having received 
any rebates, and certainly didnt think he had. But having searched through his paperwork, 
he hadnt been able to find any loan statements to verify what had happened. 
Ive thought about what Mr O said, and I appreciate that he feels very strongly about this. But 
Ive explained above why I think its most likely that the premium rebates were paid as they 
should have been. As theres no new evidence I have no reason to change my conclusion 
that the compensation paid to Mr O was fair and will, as far as is possible, put him back in 
the position he would have been in if the mis-sales hadnt happened. So I dont think Lloyds 
needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint about the redress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman