DRN-2563032
The complaint
Mr S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and their decision to e-mail him after direct 
debits had been set up on his account.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr S set up three direct debits on his Barclays account. Barclays e-mailed 
Mr S confirming the details of these. Within the e-mail, Barclays included the last four digits 
of Mr Ss account and the business the direct debit was set up to pay.
Mr S was unhappy he received these e-mails as he had already opted out on online banking 
and receiving communication through his e-mail address. So, he raised a complaint.
Mr S complained that Barclays had mis-used his data by sending him e-mails which included 
the last four digits of his account. He felt hed already opted out of receiving e-mails 
previously. So, he wanted Barclays to pay him £25 for each e-mail hed received, plus 
compensate him for what he felt was mis-use of his data.
Barclays responded and didnt uphold his complaint. They explained the e-mails were sent 
for security purposes, not for marketing. And that Mr S had only opted out of marketing e-
mails. They explained the e-mails were sent to allow Mr S the opportunity to dispute the 
direct debits if he didnt recognise them, so they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. But 
they agreed to remove Mr Ss e-mail address from their system entirely to prevent further e-
mails being sent.
Mr S wasnt happy with this response. He felt Barclays had acted unfairly by asking him to 
provide an e-mail address when the account was created. He felt he was told this was only 
for security and identification purposes. So, he felt Barclays had mis-led him at the time and 
he didnt agree theyd done nothing wrong. As Mr S remained unhappy, he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Barclays had 
acted reasonably when sending the e-mails as he thought they were sent for security 
purposes to protect Mr Ss account. He didnt think they were marketing e-mails or that they 
were a specific feature of online banking, which Mr S didnt want to use. And he thought 
Barclays had responded fairly by removing Mr Ss e-mail from their system altogether, to 
prevent any further issues arising. He also explained he was unable to consider the 
complaint around the mis-use of data as this would fall under the jurisdiction of the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). For these reasons, he didnt think Barclays 
needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He explained he was unhappy that Barclays were trying to communicate 
with him online when he preferred to go into his local branch. And he was unhappy Barclays 
were closing branches which made it more difficult for him to do this. As Mr S didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. I recognise that Mr S 
didnt want to use the online banking options available on his account. And I can appreciate 
why, as he asked not to be contacted by e-mail for marketing purposes, hed be frustrated 
and receiving e-mail communication from Barclays. But for me to say Barclays had done 
something wrong, Id need to see that Barclays had contacted him incorrectly and not taken 
into account Mr Ss preferences. Or, that by doing so, Barclays had placed Mr Ss account at 
risk. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain how Ive come to my decision, I want to explain exactly what Ive been able 
to consider. Part of Mr Ss complaint related to mis-use of his data by Barclays. As this part 
of the complaint relates to his personal data and the use of this, this isnt something Ive 
been able to look at. Any complaints about data usage would need to be directed to the ICO, 
who regulate data use and protection within the United Kingdom. So, this part of the 
complaint hasnt influenced the outcome Ive reached.
So, Ive considered Barclays decision to contact Mr S by e-mail, and whether this was in line 
with the preferences he provided. Ive seen the e-mail address they used was the e-mail 
address Mr S provided to Barclays when creating his account. I understand Mr S is unhappy 
Barclays asked him to provide an e-mail for security and identification purposes, only to then 
use it to contact him directly. So, he feels as though they used underhand tactics to gain an 
e-mail address from him.
But I dont think thats the case. Its common industry practice for businesses such as 
Barclays to request a range of contact information. And I dont think asking for an e-mail 
address is excessive. So, I cant say they did anything wrong when doing so.
Mr S is also unhappy that he opted out of receiving marketing communication by e-mail, and 
he feels as though the e-mails he sent fell under this. But I dont think thats the case. I think 
the e-mails Barclays sent were for security purposes. This is because the e-mails werent 
intended to offer Mr S additional products or services. The e-mails were intended to provide 
Mr S the opportunity to dispute the direct debits if he didnt recognise them. So, I dont think 
by opting out of marketing e-mails, he opted out of receiving security e-mails of this nature.
I think Barclays sent the e-mails to Mr S in good faith, in an attempt to keep his account 
secure. I understand Mr S didnt see it this way and I can appreciate the upset he felt. But 
Ive seen Barclays have removed Mr Ss e-mail from their system completely to ensure 
future instances like this dont occur. So, I think Barclays have addressed Mr Ss concerns 
fairly and reasonably. And because of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask them to 
do any more.
And in relation to Mr Ss comments about the closing of branches, this is a separate 
complaint that hasnt been raised with Barclays as part of the complaint. But even so, the 
way Barclays operate their business, which includes the number of branches they run, is a 
business process and is not something were able to consider or comment on. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. But I hope it brings some closure to 
aspects of his complaint and explains why Barclays were acting in good faith when sending the e-mails. I also hope it provides some re-assurance to Mr S that e-mails of this nature 
wont be received in the future.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman