DRN-3412159
The complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money she lost as a result of a 
scam.
What happened
Ms C was looking for a holiday rental for her and her family during the summer of 2020. She 
found a suitable property on a popular online holiday accommodation website. She 
contacted the person whod listed the property and the two communicated via email. 
Unfortunately for Ms C she was actually communicating with a fraudster.
Ms C was very keen to get away and give her family a much-needed break. Shed spent 
several days looking for a suitable property and was very pleased to have found one. 
After an exchange about the details of the property, the fraudster explained that Ms C would 
receive a payment request from the holiday accommodation website with payment 
instructions. Ms C believed she was paying it, rather than the owner of the property directly. 
The email instructed her to make a payment of £4,483.27 to a bank account in another 
country. 
Soon after making the payment, Ms C said she felt that something wasnt right, so she 
contacted both the bank and the holiday website. The holiday website said that it had no 
record of the booking, at which point Ms C realised shed been the victim of a scam. 
Barclays declined to provide a refund to Ms C but did try to recover her money. The 
receiving bank asked for a police statement to be sent to it within five days, but after 
Barclays provided this, it failed to respond any further. Ms C was unhappy with Barclays 
customer service and has explained that the fraud has had a significant impact on the 
wellbeing of her and her family. She said that it had given her incorrect information on a 
number of occasions, its staff had been rude to her and she was unhappy with its attempts 
to recover her money. Barclays offered £100 in compensation to reflect the fact she was 
given an incorrect telephone number for the banks international payments team. However, it 
denied that it had otherwise made a mistake
Ms C referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators upheld it in part. They 
didnt think the transaction Ms C made stood out as being sufficiently unusual for Barclays to 
have been concerned about it. They were also satisfied with the banks attempts to recover 
Ms Cs funds. They did, however, recommend that Barclays pay her a further £150 in 
compensation.
Prior to this decision, I contacted Barclays to say that I thought that the transaction Ms C 
made should have been picked up by the bank because it was very unusual and out of 
character and that, given Ms Cs uneasiness about the payment, its likely she would have 
contacted the holiday website before, rather than after, making it and the loss would have 
been prevented. It agreed, but it said that it should only refund 50% of her losses because, 
in its view, she had doubts about making the payment at the time  which is what prompted 
her to contact it and the holiday accommodation website. 
I put this offer to Ms C, but she didnt agree it was fair. She said that she hadnt made a 
payment like the one in dispute before and wanted to ensure that it had reached its 
destination, as well as ask how long it would take to reach its destination.
Following this, and after consideration of further evidence provided by Ms C, I wrote to 
Barclays and recommended that Ms C be refunded in full, along with the compensation 
awarded by the investigator and 8% simple interest per annum. It didnt respond, so Im 
giving my final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As already mentioned, Barclays have agreed that the payment Ms C made was so out of 
character and unusual that it ought to have intervened before allowing the payment to 
proceed. It has also agreed that such an intervention is likely to have made a difference and 
prevented Ms Cs loss.  So, I dont need to consider this further and I will only be deciding 
whether, taking into account whats fair and reasonable, there should be any deduction from 
Ms Cs refund, as well as what I consider to be fair compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Ive reviewed the correspondence between Ms C and the fraudster, and I can understand 
why it was convincing. In particular, the email claiming to come from the holiday website is 
well designed to appear genuine and the email address it originated from is very similar to 
that of the genuine business. I can understand why Ms C felt reassured that she was paying 
the website rather than the individual owner. While I understand the genuine website advises 
customers to only make payments through the platform itself, I can understand why Ms C 
thought she was doing just that. 
I think the price of the property rental was low  it was a substantial property in a very good 
location at a peak holiday period. But I dont think it was so low so as to override the 
reassurance Ms C received from believing that she was paying the genuine holiday 
company. In addition, the photos were of an actual property that exists at the stated location, 
so I dont think there were other obvious indications of a scam (at least not to a layperson).
Ms C has said that she had a gut feeling that something wasnt right after she made the 
payment. She isnt able to explain exactly why she felt this, but points to her unfamiliarity 
with making payments of this nature as a possible reason. Ive thought about this carefully 
and I think there isnt enough evidence to suggest that Ms C knew, or ought to have known, 
that she might be the victim of a scam before she made the payment. Im persuaded that her 
concern arose out of her unfamiliarity with making large international payments and that she 
wanted to seek reassurance that the payment had been made as expected. 
So, I think Ms C should receive a full refund of the amount she lost.  And, as the majority of 
the funds came from Ms Cs current account and would likely have been utilised had the 
scam not taken place, I think 8% simple interest per annum should be paid on the refund Ms 
C receives. 
In relation to compensation, I know that Ms C was extremely unhappy with the service she 
was provided with following the scam. Ive considered what Ms C has said about this 
carefully  even if I may not have commented on each point she has raised. Ive also noted 
Barclays acknowledge that she wasnt always given the correct information and have 
already offered £100 compensation for this. I think that a lot of Ms Cs frustration has come from the process of recovering funds from a 
bank based abroad. Though I know Ms C thinks that had she been able to contact Barclays 
earlier her money might have been recovered, Im afraid that, in my experience, the chances 
of recovery from a bank in another country are very low.  From what Ive seen, Barclays did 
do everything it reasonably could to try and get Ms Cs money back and I cant hold it 
responsible for the demands of, or lack of response from, the receiving bank. It might have 
been preferable had Barclays simply warned Ms C from the outset that the chance of 
recovering her funds was extremely small. 
That said, had Barclays stopped the transaction before it went ahead, as it has agreed it 
should, its likely that the distress and inconvenience shes suffered (including as a result of 
her interactions with the bank) would have been avoided. So, to reflect this, Ive decided 
Barclays should pay Ms C the £100 it has already offered (if it hasnt already done so) and 
an additional £150.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and instruct it to pay Ms C:
- The amount of the loss - £4,483.27
- 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement 
- A total of £250 in compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman