DRN-3483193
The complaint
Mr W says TSB Bank plc (TSB) led him to believe he was entitled to receive the benefits of 
a student account, in particular a reduced fee overdraft. He says not receiving these benefits 
and TSB wrongly charging him has impacted his credit score. 
What happened
Mr W has held a bank account with TSB for a number of years. TSB have told us that from 
2007 to 2011 it was a student account. From August 2012 to 2015 it was a graduate 
account. Following Mr W returning to study in 2015 it again became a student account and 
again reverted to a graduate account in August 2016 to 2019. Both types of accounts came 
with the benefit of a reduced fee overdraft. 
In May 2019 TSB wrote to Mr W and notified him that it was planning to upgrade his account 
to a classic account on 1 August 2019 as he had had the graduate account for a while. Mr W 
was sent a further letter on 2 August 2019 confirming the change to a classic account and 
outlined its charges for the use of the overdraft facility going forward.
Mr W believed he shouldve still been receiving the benefits of a graduate account when it 
changed to a classic account and complained to TSB that he was incorrectly charged fees 
and interest on his account. TSB says its terms and conditions confirmed that the maximum 
period a student account can be held is six years and a graduate account three. It says due 
to an error on its part Mr W benefitted from both accounts for longer and as Mr W benefitted 
from this  by paying less for his overdraft  it didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Mr W was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns and thought TSB had acted fairly given 
the level of charges they were entitled to apply.
Mr W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mr W is complaining that he didnt receive the benefits on his account that he was led to 
believe he was entitled to. Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent 
considered whether the banking facilities TSB is offering Mr W are fair and reasonable. 
Ultimately, what services a bank offers  including how much money it is willing to lend and 
on what terms - is a commercial decision. Just like it is up to Mr W to decide whether to 
accept what TSB is offering or to take his business elsewhere. And providing TSB gave Mr 
W the correct notice of the change in his account in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account, it isnt something for me to get involved with. 
I can see in September 2015 Mr W converted his account to a student account and signed a 
copy of the terms and conditions. Within the terms and conditions it says you can only have 
one student account for a maximum of six years following which the account will be 
converted to a graduate account, unless alternative arrangements are made with TSB.  And 
the graduate account conditions say again you can only have one account for up to three 
years. 
I understand at this point Mr W had already had both a student account and a graduate 
account and by being able to open a further student account he says he was led to believe 
whilst he was a student he was able to continue with the benefits of this type of account.
I dont think it is in dispute that TSBs records of when Mr W was a student or a graduate 
dont match exactly. And I dont think it matters because Mr W has benefitted from both 
accounts for longer than the terms and conditions of the accounts allow. And TSB provided 
Mr W with two months written notice in May 2019 that his graduate account was coming to 
an end and wrote to him further about this in August 2019. I understand Mr W did receive the 
May letter as he supplied us with a copy of it.
So I think if Mr W was still under the impression he could continue to benefit from a graduate 
or student account following this he wouldve contacted TSB about it then. But he didnt. So 
although there have been mistakes in the provision of student and graduate accounts to Mr 
W, because overall he benefitted from this Im not going to ask that TSB does anything 
more.
I understand Mr W is also concerned that he had to take out borrowing at a higher rate of 
interest because of his credit file. But TSB have told us that as Mr Ws account has been 
managed in good order it wouldnt have recorded any adverse data  only the amount of 
money owed to it. And as TSB has a duty to report this information accurately to the credit 
reference agencies it subscribes to I cant say it has done anything wrong here. 
So it follows that as Mr W benefitted from TSBs mistake in that he was provided with 
reduced fees on his overdraft for longer than he should have and was given notice that the 
arrangement was coming to an end, Im not going to ask TSB to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman