DRN-3798788
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund two withdrawals 
where they say the cash did not dispense.
What happened
On 21 December 2021, Mr H reported to Barclays that hed attempted two cash machine 
withdrawals, but had not been given the cash.
Mr H has explained that he went to a Co-op ATM first, then a nearby Sainsburys one right 
after, both on the same day, and that the cash slot didnt open either time.
Barclays investigated two withdrawals: £260 at a Sainsburys ATM which happened first, 
then £180 at a Co-op ATM after, on different days  17 and 18 December 2021 respectively.
On 20 December 2021, the day before his report, Mr H had attempted to withdraw £200 at a 
Co-op ATM followed by £200 at a Sainsburys ATM right after, on the same day. Something 
went wrong with those and both withdrawals got declined. But neither one debited the 
account, so Mr and Mrs H were not charged for those.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and suggested that Barclays refund the 
Sainsburys withdrawal of 17 December 2021, as they said some information was missing 
about that withdrawal. Neither side agreed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
I now have the information that our adjudicator said was missing.
I sent Barclays and Mr and Mrs H a provisional decision on 5 October 2022, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
First, I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs H wanted CCTV footage of the withdrawals. But that 
kind of footage is only kept for a short time  usually about a month  so Im afraid its much 
too late for me to be able to view it now. And Barclays do not own Sainsburys or Co-op, so 
they could not compel them to provide the CCTV footage or to keep it for any longer. If its 
any consolation, the footage was unlikely to have been detailed enough to show what the 
screen said or how much cash did or did not come out. Instead, Ive looked at all the 
evidence that is available, and thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at the records for the ATM withdrawals on 17 and 18 December 2021. According 
to the electronic records, on both occasions Mr H put in his card and PIN and asked to 
withdraw cash. Both times, the withdrawal was approved, Mr Hs card was returned, and the 
correct amount of cash was dispensed. According to the records, neither machine 
experienced any errors or shut down on either of those occasions.
The customers before and after Mr H were also able to use each machine without any 
issues. There were successful transactions before and after him on both occasions. The 
machines do not appear to have been experiencing any relevant problems  for example, for 
the Sainsburys machine the only problem the analyst found was that some of the notes 
needed fanning out to help them get picked up more easily.
If the ATMs had not actually dispensed the £260 or the £180, then Id expect them to have 
respectively had at least £260 or £180 or so of extra cash in them afterwards. But when 
each machine was checked for balancing, each one had substantially less extra cash in it 
than that. This also suggests that the cash was dispensed for both withdrawals.
So the evidence supports that for the 17 and 18 December 2021 withdrawals, both cash 
machines gave out the amounts Mr H asked for. And Ive not seen anything which shows or 
substantiates that the cash did not get dispensed on either of those occasions. So I dont 
have a fair basis on which to tell Barclays to refund those withdrawals.
With that said, I note that from Mr Hs description of what happened, it sounds like the 
withdrawals he had problems with were on 20 December 2021, not 17 or 18 December. 
Mr H said he went to the Co-op ATM first, then Sainsburys, and on the same day. He did 
that on 20 December. Whereas for 17 and 18 December, he went to Sainsburys first, then 
Co-op, and on different days. And there were problems with the 20 December withdrawals  
both of them ultimately got turned down and it looks like no cash was dispensed there. That 
may explain why Mr H strongly recalls two withdrawals that didnt go through  that did 
happen, but on 20 December 2021, not 17 or 18 December 2021.
With that said, Mr Hs withdrawal attempts from 20 December never actually debited Mr and 
Mrs Hs account. Theyll be able to see on their statements that, despite Mr H requesting 
£200 both times on 20 December, there are no corresponding £200 charges that left their 
account that day. In other words, they were never charged for those £200 withdrawal 
attempts, and they never lost that money. So while there were problems with those two 
withdrawals on 20 December 2021, theres nothing for Barclays to refund there.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
2 November 2022. Barclays didnt add anything further. Mr H added some further 
comments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H explained that he went to both ATMs on 17 December 2021. But Im afraid hes 
mistaken. The two withdrawals he disputed happened on 17 and 18 December 2021 
respectively, not on the same day. There was only one withdrawal on 17 December 2021, 
not two, and the available evidence shows that it went through just fine, with the cash 
dispensing correctly  and the same for the 18 December 2021 withdrawal too.
Mr H did go to both ATMs on the same day on 20 December 2021, and there were problems 
with those two withdrawals, which may well be why Mr H recalls two withdrawals going 
wrong around that time. But as I said before, those two withdrawals from 20 December 2021 
never debited Mr and Mrs Hs account, so they never lost that money, and theres nothing for 
Barclays to refund there.Mr H said he stayed at the machine for 20 minutes afterwards and nothing ever came out. 
But I can see that other customers successfully used the same machines after him  for 
example, after Mr Hs Co-op withdrawal on 18 December 2021, another customer used the 
same ATM successfully 9 minutes later. Again, it really sounds like Mr H may be recalling his 
withdrawal attempts of 20 December 2021, where  just as he remembers  no cash came 
out. However, Mr and Mrs H were never charged for those and so never lost out.
Mr H reiterated his disappointment that Barclays didnt get CCTV footage. But as I explained 
before, Barclays did not own the supermarkets and were not able to compel them to provide 
CCTV footage or to keep it for longer. The footage was unlikely to have been detailed 
enough to show what the screen said or what was dispensed, so it most likely was not 
relevant anyway. And since it no longer exists, Im afraid its not relevant to the outcome of 
the case now.
Lastly, Mr H suggested that the supermarket staff may have been on the fiddle. But that is 
a very serious accusation, and Ive found absolutely no evidence which substantiates or 
shows that the staff did anything wrong. Its not likely that theyd even have the means to do 
so, nor that two different supermarkets would happen to have the same problem and that it 
would only happen to affect Mr H on those days. Whereas according to the evidence at 
hand, the withdrawals of 17 and 18 December 2021 went through without any errors and 
without any signs of interference.
So based on the evidence and the balance of probabilities, I have no fair basis on which to 
tell Barclays to refund anything in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman