DRN-4027849
The complaint
Mrs S complains Simplyhealth Access failed to add her son on to her policy following a new 
child payment in 2008 and will not do so now. 
What happened
Mrs S holds a cash plan with Simplyhealth. Her policy was originally with a different 
business, but that business joined Simplyhealth in 2005 and in 2010 her policy migrated to 
Simplyhealth.
In 2022 Mrs S contacted Simplyhealth and said she needed her son (who Ill call X) added 
on to her policy. She said Simplyhealth should have actually added X on to it when shed 
claimed for and received a new child payment (NCP) in 2008. But added that the need for X 
to move had only become an issue for her now due to a separation from his father.
Simplyhealth said it was unable to see claims as far back as 2008 so couldnt say whether 
Mrs S had claimed for and received an NCP. But it explained that when her policy migrated 
in 2010 she was the only person named on it. It also said it could only provide limited 
information due to data protection, but X was already a child dependent on another policy 
with it and that policyholder would need to request he be removed from their plan first. 
That position was maintained following a complaint too, so Mrs S approached this service.
Our investigator said we didnt have the jurisdiction to consider Mrs Ss first complaint point 
(that Simplyhealth should have added X following the 2008 NCP) because it had been 
brought too late. And although they said her concerns about the current refusal to add X on 
to her policy had been brought in time, they didnt think Simplyhealths position on it was 
unfair.  
Simplyhealth accepted that opinion; Mrs S did not. She said she was estranged from Xs 
father, was being penalised for someone elses mistake with no way to fix matters, and 
wanted her complaint considered by an ombudsman.
I issued a jurisdiction decision which agreed we did not have the jurisdiction to look into 
Mrs Ss concerns about Simplyhealths actions following the NCP in 2008  because her 
complaint about this had been raised too late. 
I also explained we did have the jurisdiction to look into Mrs Ss concerns about 
Simplyhealths current refusal to move X on to her policy. And said Id consider this in a 
separate decision.
My findings about Simplyhealths current refusal to move X are now set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ill not be upholding Mrs Ss complaint for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. Let me explain why:
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ss policy say: 
4.4 Can I add a child to more than one Simplyhealth policy?
No. A child who is already covered on another Simplyhealth policy cannot join this 
policy.
So Simplyhealth wasnt acting outside of the above terms when it told Mrs S it was 
unable to carry out her request  because X was already a child dependent on 
another of its policies. 
Simplyhealth hasnt said itll never be able to add X onto Mrs Ss policy. Rather its 
explained that before it can do so it needs to remove him from the policy hes already 
on. I wouldnt expect Simplyhealth to remove a dependent from someone elses 
policy without having the appropriate consent to do so. And given Mrs S cannot 
provide that consent I dont think Simplyhealths position is unreasonable. 
Mrs S has told this service the other policyholder is her ex-husband. Even if it were, it 
wouldnt alter the issue that remains here because X is already on a policy, theres 
no consent to remove him from that policy, and he cant be on two policies with 
Simplyhealth at the same time. 
Mrs Ss personal circumstances arent something that negate the terms of her policy. 
Though I sympathise with the difficulties shes explained she faces with the other 
policyholder, in all the circumstances Im satisfied that Simplyhealth has acted both 
fairly and reasonably and as such Ill not be interfering with its current position.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Simplyhealth Access. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman