DRN-1672127
The complaint
Mr M complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited repeatedly changed the account 
his direct debit payment was due to be paid from.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr M opened a credit card account with John Lewis Financial Services Limited, 
hereafter referred to as JLP.
At around the time Mr M opened his credit card account he asked JLP to set up a direct 
debit to pay his full monthly statement balance from his sole bank account, which it did. 
From the date this direct debit was set up until July 2019 JLP collected payments from Mr 
Ms nominated sole bank account without any issues. 
However, from July 2019 onwards Mr M began to experience difficulties in how payments 
were being collected by JLP. He said it kept changing the account his direct debit was due to 
be paid from. And, instead of his payment debiting his sole bank account, it began to debit 
his joint bank account. So, Mr M had to contact JLP regularly in order to ask it to amend the 
direct debit to ensure payments were debiting his sole bank account. And, as this happened 
on multiple occasions, Mr M raised a complaint with JLP.
When JLP responded to Mr Ms complaint it explained that it had received Automated Direct 
Debit Amendment and Cancellation Service (ADDACS) reports on almost a monthly basis 
from July 2019 onwards from his bank. It said it had been obliged to act on the information 
contained in these reports. And so, it didnt think it had made an error or uphold his 
complaint. 
But, while JLP didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint, it recognised the upset hed experienced and, 
as a gesture of goodwill, agreed to resolve his complaint by waiving all interest and fees hed 
incurred. It also credited his account with 1000 points and paid him £70. JLP also removed 
all adverse information it had registered with credit reference agencies (CRAs) up to and 
including 11 November 2019. But it said it wasnt willing to remove data it had recorded after 
that date because Mr M hadnt made a payment to his account after 28 September 2019  
that being the last time his direct debit had been collected. 
Mr M was dissatisfied with JLPs response to his complaint  he thought his concerns 
werent being taken seriously and he was unhappy it wouldnt remove all the credit 
information it had recorded. He also said hed been caused significant distress and 
inconvenience by what had happened. So, he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and, while they empathised with Mr M, 
didnt think that JLP had acted unfairly in dealing with this complaint. Overall, they werent 
persuaded it needed to do anything more. So, they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. But Mr M disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr M and JLP that Ive read everything theyve provided. So, if 
Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
I can see Mr M feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from what hes 
said to both our service and JLP. And I can appreciate that he was caused distress and 
inconvenience by what happened. 
My role is to assess whether I think JLP made a mistake, or treated Mr M unfairly, such that 
it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and JLP 
have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by 
this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
JLP has provide our service with the direct debit mandate that was completed at around the 
time Mr M opened his credit card account. Its clear from this mandate that Mr M wanted his 
payments to debit his sole bank account. And Im satisfied JLP correctly set that instruction 
up because payments were made to his credit card from Mr Ms sole bank account without a 
problem until July 2019 when that all changed.
Mr M told our service that he isnt responsible for the changes that were made to his direct 
debit. But JLP states it isnt either. Instead, its stated it followed the instructions set out in 
the ADDACS reports it received. With that in mind Ive carefully considered the content of 
those reports.
Ive seen the ADDACS report JLP received from Mr Ms bank on 17 July 2019. This report 
instructed it to collect Mr Ms direct debit from his joint bank account. So, JLP updated its 
records to reflect this change and it collected Mr Ms August 2019 payment from that 
account. It was obliged to implement the change outlined in the report it received so I cant 
fairly conclude it made an error in following the instruction it received. 
JLP received further a ADDACS report, dated 16 August 2019, which again confirmed the 
account details outlined in the previous report JLP had received. Its clear that Mr M 
contacted JLP on 5 September 2019 to explain those direct debit details were incorrect. And 
he instructed JLP to amend the direct debit to debit his sole bank account, which it did. 
Subsequent to this telephone discussion I can see JLP received a further ADDACS report 
dated 10 September 2019, which instructed it to change his direct debit to debit his joint 
account. So, it implemented that change. Two weeks later Mr M telephoned JLP again to 
explain it needed to change his direct debit back so it would debit his sole bank account. 
JLP told Mr M that, on 3 October 2019, it received an ADDACS report informing it that his 
direct debit had been cancelled. So it had to cancel the direct debit registered against his 
account, which meant hed have to make an manual payment instead. But no payment was 
made by Octobers due date, so JLP applied a late payment fee and interest to Mr Ms 
account in line with the terms and conditions of his account  although these were 
subsequently waived. On 29 October 2019 JLP received an ADDACS report advising that the direct debit should 
now be collected from Mr Ms joint account. Around a week later it received a further 
ADDACS report confirming his direct debit instruction had been cancelled again. So, JLP 
acted on that information as it was required to.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that each time JLP received an ADDACS 
report it complied with those instructions as it was obliged to. I can see that when JLP 
changed Mr Ms direct debit details it communicated this with him. And Im also persuaded 
that when JLP received an ADDACS report explaining that Mr Ms direct debit had been 
cancelled it informed him of this and advised that a manual payment would be required. 
These are the actions our service would expect a business to take as part of its duty to 
communicate changes to its customers.
Ive seen evidence that Mr M regularly contacted JLP to amend the direct debit details back 
to his sole bank account. I realise that must have taken up his time and caused frustration. 
But, as our investigator explained, our service cant look into why ADDACS reports were 
sent to JLP  thats an issue Mr M will need to raise with the bank that caused these reports 
to be sent. And Ive already explained that JLP was obliged to act in line with the instructions 
contained in the ADDACS reports it received.
I know Mr M will be disappointed by this decision. But, in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint, I cant fairly find JLP made an error here. And that means I cant ask it to pay any 
compensation or do anything further. 
Ill turn now to Mr Ms complaint that JLP recorded adverse credit with CRAs against his 
credit file. 
JLP agreed to remove the adverse information it had recorded on Mr Ms credit file up to 11 
November 2019. But it wasnt willing to remove data it had recorded beyond that date. I 
know that Mr M feels JLP unfairly recorded information on his credit file. But he didnt make 
any payments to his account after 28 September 2019  that being the last time his direct 
debit had been collected. 
As Mr M declined to make further payments his account entered collections and JLP 
recorded information about how he was managing his account with CRAs. I appreciate this 
will remain on his credit file, and potentially impact him, until around November 2025. But 
financial businesses have a responsibility to make sure that the information they report to 
credit reference agencies is accurate. 
Here, Mr M hasnt made payments to his account since September 2019. He therefore 
hasnt maintained his account in line with its terms and conditions. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that JLP wrote to Mr M on 2 November and 3 December 2019 in 
order to inform him that his account was in arrears as it hadnt received a payment for 
October 2019. It follows that I think Mr M ought to have been aware payments on his 
account continued to fall due. And, because JLP had recorded adverse information 
previously, Im satisfied he ought to have known what the consequences would be if 
payments to his account werent made.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I cant say JLP acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in reporting missed payment information to CRAs. And I cant ask it to remove 
that information as its a true reflection of what happened.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with JLP informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr M 
any further with this.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman