DRN-3561485
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Advantage Finance Ltd (AF) was irresponsible to have agreed car 
finance for him in September 2018.
Mr S has brought his complaint via a representative but I will refer to him throughout for 
simplicity.
What happened
AF entered into a hire purchase (HP) agreement for a car with Mr S through an intermediary 
in September 2018. The cash price of the car was £5,999. The total amount owing under the 
agreement (including interest and fees) came to £9,869. This was to be repaid over 47 
monthly instalments of £202 and a final payment of £377 (all figures rounded).
As it was a HP agreement, AF remained the vehicle owner until Mr S had made all his 
repayments and so he was, in essence, paying for the use of it. Mr S had the option of 
voluntarily terminating the agreement at any point and returning the car. This option would 
limit his total liability to about half the amount owing if hed taken reasonable care of it.
It seems Mr S missed payments within a few months of the agreement inception. He brought 
his account up to date in February 2019 and told AF that he was struggling to obtain wages 
from his customers. Mr S continued to have direct debit payments returned and incurred 
collection charges during 2019. In December 2019 Mr S advised AF that he was struggling 
with his payments as hed been out of work due to sickness. In May 2020, Mr S asked for a 
three month payment holiday due to the impact of the pandemic, which was agreed.
I understand Mr S made a partial settlement in August 2020 and his account seems to have 
been in credit or kept up to date thereafter. However, Mr S advised AF in June 2021 that he 
was still struggling to meet his repayments and was looking to trade-in for a cheaper car. In 
the end Mr S decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement and returned the car to AF in 
July 2021.
Mr S complained to AF that he couldnt afford the repayments and that AF would have 
understood that, had it carried out a proper investigation before agreeing finance for him. He 
explained, via his representative, that he was on a low wage and in a dire financial situation 
when he entered into the agreement. AF disagreed that it had been irresponsible to agree 
credit for Mr S. It says it carried out robust checks before lending to him and found that he 
had enough income to support the repayments and that he wasnt over-indebted.
Mr S didnt accept this response and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it for him but didnt recommended that it be upheld. They found that the credit 
repayments would have looked affordable for Mr S based on the information AF had 
gathered and that increased checks wouldnt have revealed otherwise.
Mr S didnt accept this recommendation and asked for his complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve. In addition to the information hed already provided about 
his circumstances, Mr S advised that he had a mental health condition which can affect his 
interaction with others. He provided evidence of ongoing support from his local health 
service. 
I considered this new information alongside everything else and sent out a provisional 
decision on 23 May 2022 explaining why I didnt plan to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I allowed 
some time for both parties to comment on what Id said or provide any new information they 
wished me to consider. I havent had any response from either party.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed this complaint again and, having no new information or comment to consider, I 
see no need to depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set out again my reasons for not 
upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, AF will be familiar with the regulations in place at the 
time so I will summarise its main obligations. AF needed to check that Mr S could afford to 
meet his repayments sustainably before entering into a credit agreement with him. It needed 
to check that he could meet his repayments out of his usual means without experiencing 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences, for example while meeting any existing 
commitments and without having to borrow or realise assets. The necessary checks needed 
to take into account both the nature of the credit (its type, amount, term etc.) and Mr Ss 
particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that AF needed to pay due regard to Mr Ss interests and 
treat him fairly. The regulators handbook (CONC) paragraph 2.2.2G gave an example of 
contravening this requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements 
which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, 
disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did AF complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks when assessing Mr Ss application to satisfy itself that he would be able to make his 
repayments under the agreement without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did AL make a fair 
lending decision?
Mr S said his net monthly income was £2,901 and AF estimated his expenses as £718, 
comprising rent, council tax, utility bills and credit repayments. AF also said that Mr Ss credit 
file showed an active bank account, credit or store card and communications account, all of 
which were well maintained. AF considered his level of debt readily serviceable and 
concluded that Mr S had sufficient headroom to comfortably afford the repayments and meet 
other household expenses.
AF provided copies of the information it gathered from Mr Ss credit file at the time. I can see 
several defaulted debts from 2013 and 2014, most of which show a zero balance, and it 
seems Mr S had few recent lines of credit.
The regulations in place at the time stated that if a lender took income or expenditure into 
account in its assessment, it should take account of actual current income or expenditure 
and it wasnt generally sufficient for it to rely solely on a statement of these matters made by 
the consumer. So I think it was right of AF to look to verify the information Mr S gave about 
his income. AF says that it verified Mr Ss income by checking his current account turnover which it 
considers to be an acceptable means of verification. I can accept that checking account 
turnover might sometimes be a reasonable sense-check of information about an applicants 
means. In Mr Ss case he was self-employed which, I understand, was known to AF and so 
any payments into his account might be gross payments out of which Mr S would need to 
pay taxes, VAT or any other business costs. I think AF needed to take extra care here to 
ensure that the information it had about Mr Ss means was complete and correct.
That said, in this case I dont think further information about Mr Ss means would have led AF 
to decline credit for him. Mr S has provided his bank statements which Ive accepted as a 
proxy for any further information AF might have obtained. I can see from these that his 
average deposits (including some state benefits) from early June to September 2018 came 
to approximately £2,800 a month. As mentioned, AF estimated some of Mr Ss costs to be 
around £700 a month. Identifiable car hire, petrol and food costs on his bank statements 
come to around £500 a month and he has £115 of direct debits. In addition, Mr S transfers 
an average of £500 a month to a partner/family member. There are other costs for 
entertainment and cash withdrawals.
Based on the information Ive seen, it seems that Mr S would have enough left over to meet 
his repayments even considering that his income deposits might have been gross amounts. 
So Ive concluded that that further checks would not have raised concerns for AF that Mr S 
would have difficulty meeting the repayments for this HP agreement.
Given the size of the monthly repayments relative to Mr Ss means; that the repayments 
seemed affordable and that there werent any obvious signs of recent financial difficulty in the 
information AF had, I dont find that it was irresponsible to have agreed credit for Mr S on this 
occasion.
Mr S has provided some new information about his mental health which I have carefully 
considered. Id like to thank him for sharing this information with us and say that Im sorry to 
hear of his health condition. However, Mr S hasnt explained how his condition might have 
impacted on his ability to enter into a financial agreement so I am unsure what course of 
action AF should have taken, had it known or found out about this matter. From everything 
Ive seen, I dont think AF knew about Mr Ss health condition, or should have known about it, 
prior to entering into the hire purchase agreement. Furthermore, I cant see that this 
information was ever shared with AF or that it ought to have learnt of this over the course of 
the agreement. So I dont think AF got something wrong with regard to Mr Ss health that it 
needs to put right for him.
In summary, I dont think AF was irresponsible to have entered into the hire purchase 
agreement with Mr S in 2018 or treated him unfairly in any other way.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Advantage Finance Ltd 
and so dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman