DRN-3638015
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she is being chased by a third-party debt collector for an outstanding 
debt Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wrongly sold to it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Halifax upheld Mrs S complaint and offered £30 compensation. It says this reflects the 
trouble and upset caused by its advisor telling Mrs S her account was closed when it had in 
fact an outstanding balance. 
Our Investigator also upheld the complaint, but recommended Halifax pay Mrs S £75 in total 
for the distress and inconvenience caused when Mrs S unexpectedly received a bill from a 
third-party debt collector. However, Mrs S is seeking an increased amount of compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons: 
- Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. I acknowledge Mrs S has said she called Halifax to close her account 
and was told she didnt have an outstanding balance. Halifax couldnt find a record of 
this call but as a gesture of goodwill offered £30 compensation for any misinformation 
Mrs S received about her account.
- Halifax sold Mrs S debt to a third-party debt collector. I appreciate this wouldve 
come as a shock to Mrs S given that she didnt think she had an outstanding balance 
but what I must think about is whether Halifax did anything wrong in passing the 
outstanding debt to a third-party and I dont think it has. 
- I say this because Halifax wrote to Mrs S in March and May 2021 to the address held 
by Halifax at the time. I accept that Mrs S says she didnt receive correspondence 
sent by the bank, but Im satisfied the bank sent it. Mrs S account was overdrawn 
and the bank asked Mrs S to rectify the account. As it didnt receive a response, the 
bank was entitled to pass the outstanding debt onto a third-party. Im satisfied that 
the bank sent the appropriate notice to the address it had for Mrs S. 
- Halifax sold the debt to a third party which its entitled to do. Id urge Mrs S to contact 
the third party to agree a repayment plan for the debt if she is experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
- Having said that, whilst the evidence around Mrs S updating her address is 
inconclusive Ive considered Halifax has told us there was no record of Mrs S 
updating her address but gave the benefit of hindsight. Mrs S has also said being 
chased for a debt she was unaware of has caused her much stress and anxiety. I 
understand Halifax previously offered £30 compensation to put things right, but I 
think it should increase its offer to £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
communication failures before transferring Mrs S debt. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to pay £75 compensation to put things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman