DRN-1991888
The complaint
Mrs O says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in March 2001. The policy was 
added to Mrs Os credit card account during a phone call.
An adjudicator upheld the complaint. MBNA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Os case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Os complaint because I dont think MBNA gave her clear enough 
information about the policy. I dont think its true cost and benefits were drawn to Mrs Os 
attention and I havent seen enough information through sales documentation from the time 
of sale that would suggest MBNA did.
I havent seen enough information that shows that MBNA gave an explanation that the 
monthly benefit on the PPI policy it sold to Mrs O was only 3% of the outstanding balance at 
the start of a claim. And theres also no mention in any of the sales documentation that Mrs 
O mightve had to keep paying premiums if she made a claim on the policy, or that she also 
wouldve had to pay interest on her premiums.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs O because she has told our service she had 6 months 
full sick pay at the time of sale and she couldve relied on this amount if she needed to. 
MBNA has said it had a conversation with Mrs O and the information she told it meant that 
she wouldve needed the benefit provided by the policy. 
I acknowledge MBNAs comments. But Mrs O has been consistent with us from the outset 
that she would have had 6 months full sick pay. Our adjudicator also went back to Mrs O and 
clarified with her again recently, and she again reiterated that she would have received 6 
months full sick pay. I find her recollections persuasive. So, after considering Mrs Os 
circumstances, I am persuaded she probably wouldnt have wanted PPI if shed been 
provided with enough information to properly understand its true cost and benefits.
I dont think that Mrs O wouldve bought the policy if shed had enough information about it 
due to the provisions she held when I consider how much benefit the policy would have 
provided if needed. So, I think shes lost out because of what MBNA did wrong.
Putting things right
MBNA should put Mrs O in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. MBNA should find out how much Mrs O would have owed when she closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mrs O owed when she closed 
his account and what he would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs O would have 
owed when she closed his account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when MBNA works out what Mrs O would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs 
O paid more than enough to clear her balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mrs O paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs 
O wouldve owed MBNA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D. MBNA should tell Mrs O what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Os complaint and direct MBNA to pay 
compensation as I have described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman