DRN-2856662
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Revolut Ltd blocked his account and upon closing it, sent the money in the 
account back to source causing him inconvenience and a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr Ss account was blocked for a review on 2 September 2019. Over the next week he was 
asked by Revolut to provide numerous bits of information about various payments into his 
account. He complied with these requests at the time, but his account remained blocked until 
9 October 2019. He was told on this date that his account had been closed and the funds 
remaining in his account had been sent back to source  i.e. the accounts where they had 
come from. 
Mr S has explained he couldnt pay for food or rent whilst his account was blocked. And 
although he received the majority of his money back, he went through a great deal of 
inconvenience trying to track it all down. He has explained he suffered a loss of 727.96 USD 
due to bank charges and exchange rates, as well as 50 Euros which wasnt returned to him 
by the company it was supposedly sent back to. I will refer to this company as W throughout 
this decision.  
Mr S says that he was given a 500,000 Euro top-up limit in 2017/2018, so Revolut had given 
him advance permission to receive these amounts. And yet it then blocked his account in 
2019 on several occasions and wanted to know details of all the transactions. He doesnt 
think this is fair business practice. 
Unhappy with Revoluts actions, Mr S instructed a solicitor and they sent a pre-action letter 
to Revolut detailing Mr Ss complaint and claim for losses. Revolut responded explaining that 
it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account when blocking and closing it 
and sending the money back to source. It therefore denied it owed Mr S any money for the 
losses he says he suffered. 
Mr S says he accepts that the terms of the account allow Revolut to block and close it  
although he doesnt agree with how long it was blocked for - but the terms dont say anything 
about returning the funds to source. He says he didnt agree to this and it is therefore illegal. 
He pointed out that if Revolut blindly send money back to the originators it will be lost and 
costs will be incurred, as has happened to him. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, 
explaining that Revolut was following its legal and regulatory obligations, as well as the 
terms and conditions, in blocking, reviewing and closing the account. She was happy from 
what shed seen that Revolut didnt cause any delays and that it had followed its procedure 
when choosing to return the funds in the account to source once the account was closed. In 
relation to the 50 Euros, she explained that it had been sent back, but the account it had 
been sent back to had been closed. So, Mr S would need to contact the account holder, W, 
to obtain the money. She commented on an email Mr S had provided from W saying it hadnt 
received the money back, but would refund him anyway and it therefore seemed he wasnt 
at a loss. 
Mr S disagreed. He re-emphasised that whilst he accepts Revolut can close and freeze his 
account, he doesnt agree that it should be able to send his money back to source some four 
months after it had been received. He also pointed out that he hasnt received the 50 Euros 
back as W didnt refund him as promised. 
Our investigator responded confirming that she was happy Revolut followed the correct 
procedure when returning the money to source, so her opinion on the complaint remained 
unchanged. 
Because Mr S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
account services to its customers. These obligations are ongoing so dont just apply at 
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts 
and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts 
being blocked and closed.  If Revolut didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction. 
With this in mind, Im satisfied Revolut was within its rights to block Mr Ss account and
carry out a review. I appreciate Mr Ss comments around Revolut agreeing a top-up limit with 
him previously, but this isnt something that would prevent future questions around the 
payments into his account. Revolut may still need to check the source of those funds, as it 
did with Mr S on several occasions and this is something it is entitled to do. 
Revolut was also entitled to close Mr Ss account. It did so in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations and, as Mr S accepts, the terms and conditions. Revolut has the discretion to 
offer accounts to who it wishes, just as Mr S can choose who to bank with. 
Im sorry to hear how Mr S was impacted by the block  I appreciate being without access to 
his money mustve been worrying and difficult for him. Whilst Im not in a position to say the 
blocking of the account was incorrect on this occasion, Ive looked at whether Revolut 
couldve acted any quicker than it did or done anything differently, including its decision to 
return the funds in the account to source. In order to comply with its legal and regulatory 
obligations reviews can take varying degrees of time. And having looked at what happened 
in Mr Ss case, whilst it may not feel that way to Mr S, Im satisfied Revolut completed its 
review within a timely manner and without any undue delays.
Whilst I appreciate the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account dont make reference to 
Revolut being able to return funds to source, it is important to remember that Revolut has 
overriding legal and regulatory obligations it must adhere to, as Ive explained above. And 
from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Revolut was entitled to take the action it did in the 
circumstances, i.e. returning the funds to the accounts they originated from, to ensure it was 
complying with these obligations. 
 
In relation to the 50 Euro payment that Mr S says he hasnt received, I can see this was sent 
back correctly by Revolut to the originating account. The beneficiary bank has confirmed it 
has the payment, but as the beneficiary account is closed, it cant credit it unless contacted 
by their customer. Mr S will therefore need to take this up with W to obtain this money. So, whilst I appreciate Mr Ss strength of feeling on this matter and the fact he may have 
been impacted by Revoluts actions, Im satisfied the actions it took on Mr Ss account were 
done so in order to comply with its obligations. I therefore wont be recommending Revolut 
do anything to compensate Mr S. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Revolut Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman