DRN-2080442
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society told him he was eligible for a bonus 
payment if he opened an account with it, but then said he couldnt have the payment 
because of the type of account hed opened.
What happened
Mr M has a FlexBasic bank account with Nationwide. He said Nationwide told him he could 
get £100 if he got a friend to recommend him for the account. But when he opened the 
account, he found out he wasnt entitled to the payment because of the type of account he 
had opened. Mr M said hed been clear from the start that he was only interested in this sort 
of account.
Mr M said he would still have opened the account. But he wanted Nationwide to pay the 
£100 anyway, because it had made the mistake.
Nationwide said it couldnt be sure who Mr M had spoken to in the branch. But it said that its 
branch staff all know the eligibility conditions for the accounts well, and they know that the 
type of account Mr M applied for doesnt qualify for a switching bonus. Nationwide didnt 
think its staff had made a mistake.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought the details of the 
offer were clear on the leaflet Mr M was given. And Mr M didnt qualify.
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed not actually been given the leaflet to take away, and hed 
never opened the leaflet, but he had referred several times in branch to being interested in 
the offer, so staff were aware of this. He still thought Nationwide had offered a product with 
false information, and should be liable for the mistake. Mr M wanted his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr M says that he was persuaded by some wrong information to open this account. But hes 
also told us that hes happy with the account, and he wouldve opened it anyway. 
When Mr M first complained to our service, he said that after he discussed opening an 
account in branch, he was given a leaflet to recommend a friend and we could both get 
£100 each. When he discussed his complaint with Nationwide on the phone, he said he was 
never told to read through the leaflet, but accepted that maybe he shouldve done that. He 
later told our service that he wasnt given the leaflet to take away. 
I think its unlikely that Mr M was given incorrect advice in the branch, and also not allowed 
to take away a leaflet explaining the offer. I think that Mr M shouldve been aware that there 
would be conditions on the offer. And we know he didnt qualify for it. 
Mr M has also said that he wouldve applied for this account anyway, and he still wants to 
keep the account. 
For those reasons, I dont think Nationwide has to pay Mr M £100 now. I know Mr M will be 
disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman