DRN-3532021
The complaint
Ms O complains that Santander UK PLC hasnt fully reimbursed her for a payment she 
transferred when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In mid-January 2022, Ms O received a text message (through a popular social media phone 
app) that seemed to be from her only daughter.
While the message originated from a different phone number than her daughter would 
normally use, the message began Hey mum, my phone fell in the sink and now it has water 
damage. This is my temporary number [].
Ms O says she had no hesitation in thinking this was her daughter  she had no reason to 
doubt it. Unfortunately, and unknown to Ms O at the time, this was in fact a fraudster.
The fraudster asked Ms O to make an urgent payment for her. Ms O explains that her 
daughter doesnt usually ever ask her for money so she thought this must be important, and 
she was keen to help out. She says she initially thought the money might be needed for her 
daughters mortgage payment.
Ms O wasnt able to send the payment straight away as she had a health appointment. 
So the payment would have to wait until her appointment was over and shed had time to 
return home. When she got back home, Ms O logged on to her online banking and 
messaged back to confirm she was ready.
Ms O was given the payment details on the chain of messages. The payee name was an 
individuals name, so Ms O realised this wasnt the mortgage payment shed first assumed. It 
also wasnt a name she recognised. Neither was the destination account or bank familiar to 
Ms O. While she says she thought this seemed somewhat odd at the time, she explains she 
remained convinced she was exchanging messages with her daughter. 
The fraudster asked Ms O to send a picture of the transfer when its gone through? Ill use it 
as a proof of payment. Ms O asked if it was a personal or a business account (which she 
needed to input when setting up a new payee). The fraudster said Personal, Its just a 
personal account and they might cant verify because its an international bank, but thats 
normal so just continue ok.
At this point Ms O says she thought perhaps her daughter was planning to travel overseas, 
and this might explain the international payment. Shed already keyed the payee through as 
being a business account, but this didnt seem to cause a problem.
Still convinced, Ms O then finished setting up the payee. She then made the payment of 
£1,480 by Faster Payments to the payee name, sort code and account number given in the 
messages.
When she tried to send the screenshot of the payment going through, Ms O explains she 
inadvertently clicked on the profile picture for her daughter and sent it to her daughters 
original (and real) number. She noticed it didnt show up on the message chain with the 
scammer, so tried again. She then realised something wasnt right. When Ms O called 
Santander to report the scam, she says it took around 45 minutes for her call to be 
answered. She kept the scammer engaged in the message conversation. She didnt make 
the further payment shed been requested to make.
Santander said it couldnt recover Ms Os funds from the receiving account (which was a UK 
based account rather than international). 
The bank looked into what had happened as an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP 
scam). Santander considered Ms Os payment under the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides 
additional protection when customers fall victim to APP scams such as this.
But Santander didnt think Ms O had taken enough care to check this was really her 
daughter before shed sent the payment. It said it had given Ms O a message saying it 
couldnt match the payee name when shed created the new payee and that this should have 
led her to check further before sending money. It says it also showed Ms O a scam warning 
which (in the context of emails) mentioned that criminals can send false bank details in an 
attempt to steal money. 
Overall, Santander didnt think it was liable to fully reimburse Ms O under the CRM Code. 
However, the bank accepted that it could have done more to protect Ms O. It said in 
particular the scam warning it gave wasnt an effective warning. It acknowledged that the 
warning had referred to emails - so didnt specifically relate to what had happened to Ms O. 
It said it would therefore accept shared liability with Ms O. At the start of February, the bank 
reimbursed Mr O half of the money shed lost. Ms O didnt accept this outcome and referred 
her complaint to our service for an impartial review. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought Santander had treated Ms O 
fairly in refunding her half of the money shed lost. Ms O should have had concerns about 
several aspects of what happened, and this should have prompted her to take a more 
cautious approach. The investigator didnt think Ms O had a reasonable basis for believing 
the messages were genuinely from her daughter when she made the payment. So, while 
Santander had accepted it could have done more, the investigator thought it also fair for 
Ms O to share equal liability with the bank for what had happened.
Ms O didnt accept the investigators view on the matter. In summary, she says:
Her daughter was a new first-time mother, and Ms Os immediate thoughts had been 
that this must have been serious and urgent given how unusual it was for her 
daughter to ask for help. Shed assumed her daughter must be somehow in crisis 
with the baby and unable to speak to her. She hadnt felt able to question what she 
was being asked to do;
Santander hadnt flagged the discrepancy when Ms O had input business account 
nor raised any other verification issue. This was inconsistent with Ms Os own 
experience. She said clients of her small business frequently had verification troubles 
when making payments to her Santander business account, even for smaller sums;
There had been no reason to doubt that the messages were from her daughter;
Shed continued in her conversation with the scammer while she contacted 
Santander to report what had happened  doing so in the belief this would aid the 
recovery of her funds, but then found out it was already too late; and,In short, Santander hadnt done enough to protect her or retrieve her funds  it was 
unjust for the bank to penalise her given its own failings here. 
Id like to stress that while I have very briefly summarised Ms Os points above, I can 
reassure her that I have taken careful account of everything she has said. 
As Ms O didnt accept the investigators findings, her complaint has been referred to me to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator and for 
similar reasons. I will explain why.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Ms O. I can understand entirely why she 
feels strongly her money should be reimbursed by Santander, and why she doesnt accept 
the bank neednt take full responsibility.
However, while I have sympathy for Ms O in what happened, I have to recognise that the 
principal cause of her losses here were the scammers who deceived her. 
This was an APP Scam  and the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
such scams. Im satisfied this payment is one that falls within the scope of the CRM Code, 
so Ive considered what that means for this complaint.
Santander has accepted it could have done more. In particular, it said the scam warning it 
gave didnt fully meet the requirements of an effective warning under the CRM Code. So, it 
has accepted a share of liability under the code.
With Santander having already accepted it shares the blame in this transaction, the CRM 
Code says Ms O should be reimbursed at least in part. Further failure on the banks part 
would not affect the proportion by which Ms O should be reimbursed under the CRM Code 
terms. So the further factors Ms O highlights do not change the extent of Santanders liability 
- even were they to be established as additional failures.
Rather the CRM Code effectively bases the extent of reimbursement on whether the 
customer took enough care in making the payment. Santander argues that it has established 
that Ms O did not take enough care, and so says it is entitled to only reimburse Ms O with 
half of her loss. 
In terms of the CRM Codes exceptions to full reimbursement, Santander says Ms O made 
the payment without holding a reasonable basis for believing that the person with whom she 
was transacting was legitimate or that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay.
So, the issue I need to determine here is whether Santander has established this exception 
can be fairly applied  in other words, that Ms O made the payment without that reasonable 
basis for belief. In determining this point, I have carefully considered everything Ms O has submitted as well as the evidence submitted by the bank. 
Ive noted Ms Os point that from the outset she had no reason to doubt this was her 
daughter. However, Im not convinced the evidence here was much to base that belief on. 
The message was coming from a new number and lacking her daughters normal profile 
picture. No personal information, such as a name, was given to Ms O by the scammer. The 
only element linking this to Ms O was that she had a daughter and the message said Hey 
Mum. There was nothing else to reassure Ms O that this was indeed her daughter and not 
someone completely different. 
When the person sending the messages asked for a payment to be made, again I dont think 
this should have reassured Ms O. Ms O explains that her daughter never normally asked her 
for money like this. She assumed it must be urgent, and perhaps a mortgage payment that 
was due. But that was inconsistent with the payment details the scammer provided.
When the scammer said the payment was supposedly international, Ms O says she thought 
instead her daughter was perhaps planning to travel to a fitness camp abroad. But it is then 
hard to see why a payment like that would have had such urgency. The scammer told her it 
was a personal account, which again would seem unusual if this were the true reason. And 
the name was one Ms O didnt recognise. These all strike me as being warning signs that 
something might not be as it seemed. 
Ms O remarked in her comments to the investigator that these account details did seem 
somewhat funny to her at the time. Her instincts here were justified.
I understand Ms Os comments about her relationship with her daughter meaning she didnt 
feel she could easily ask what the payment was for. But I think by this point there was 
enough going on that Ms O should have had concerns that all might not be as it appeared on 
the surface. I think she should have taken further steps to establish the true situation before 
sending such a large sum of money to an unfamiliar and essentially unknown destination. 
Ms O explains she had no reason throughout to doubt that this was her daughter, but I am 
not persuaded that was a reasonable belief by this point, given the aspects that I think ought 
to have prompted concern. While Ms O has said she wanted to help urgently, shes also 
explained she did have some time to reflect on what was happening before completing the 
payment, only making the payment when shed returned home a short while after the initial 
messages.
In the circumstances, by the time she reached the payment screen, I dont think Ms O held a 
reasonable basis for believing she was sending money to whom she thought she was or that 
she was doing so under the instruction of her daughter. It follows that I find Santander is 
entitled to apply the relevant exception to full reimbursement under the CRM Code and I 
cannot fairly require it to refund Ms O by more than it already has. 
The CRM Code does not represent the full extent of the obligations on Santander. But it 
exists to provide additional protection where it is relevant. Nonetheless I have also 
considered whether Ms O might be entitled to a greater level of reimbursement outside the 
provisions of the CRM Code. But for similar reasons to those above, I find both were at fault 
to an extent, and I think it is therefore fair and reasonable that both Ms O and Santander 
should share liability equally for the loss.
In saying all of this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear that Ms O was the victim of 
this scam. Shes explained that besides the financial impact on her, its also affected her 
confidence and self-belief. The actions of those behind the scam are wholly cynical and 
Ms O is the victim of a crime. But I can only look at what Santander is required to do  I cannot consider the actions of those who have tricked and deceived Ms O in that.
With that in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont consider that Santander needs to do 
more than it has already done and does not need to refund more than the 50% it already has 
paid to Ms O. I understand that this is not the outcome Ms O wants and I recognise the 
impact all of this has had on her. But I can reassure Ms O that Ive carefully considered all 
the circumstances of her complaint before reaching what I consider to be the fair and 
reasonable decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Os complaint about Santander UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman