DRN-2973991
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc refused his request to refund the 
premiums he made towards a mortgage payment protection insurance policy from March 
2020.
What happened
Mr D made a claim for unemployment on the policy in March 2020 which was declined by 
Pinnacle, leading to Mr D making a complaint. Following involvement from this service, 
Pinnacle agreed to revisit the claim. However, in November 2020 it again declined the claim, 
principally on the basis that Mr D was still receiving an income, albeit reduced, and therefore 
did not meet the definition of being unemployed under the policy. On 4 December 2020 an 
adjudicator at this service wrote to Mr D to explain that Pinnacle had acted fairly in declining 
the claim because the policy was designed to cover unemployment and not a reduction in 
income.
Pinnacle wrote to Mr D in April 2021 to say that it was increasing the price of the monthly 
premiums. Mr D then made another complaint to Pinnacle. Although Pinnacle had 
understood the complaint to be mainly about the price increase, it did touch on Mr Ds 
request for a refund of premiums in the final response letter that it provided on 25 May 2021. 
It said that the claim made the previous year had been correctly declined and that it would 
therefore not consider a refund of premiums.
Mr D has confirmed that he cancelled the policy in May 2021.
Our adjudicators view was that Pinnacle had acted fairly in declining Mr Ds request for a 
refund of premiums. Mr D disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, this decision is only looking at the issue of whether Pinnacle should have 
agreed to a refund of premiums. I am not looking at the circumstances of why the claim was 
declined, which was the subject of a previous complaint.
Mr D would like a refund of premiums from March 2020 because thats the point at which he 
says it became clear that the policy was not suitable for him.
It was on 23 April 2020 that Pinnacle originally informed Mr D that it was declining his claim 
for unemployment. So that would have been the earliest that Mr D would have had an idea 
that there might be an issue with the terms and conditions of the policy and that it didnt 
provide cover for all of the circumstances that he might have expected it to. 
It is understandable that he didnt cancel the policy at that point because, having made a 
complaint, he was awaiting the outcome of that and the possibility that the claim might 
eventually be agreed. However, Mr D found out in November 2020 that the claim had yet 
again been declined and that that was Pinnacles final answer on the subject. On 4 
December 2020 this service confirmed that Pinnacles declination of the policy was 
reasonable. So it might have been expected that Mr D would cancel the policy at that point if 
he felt he had no use for it. However, he did not do so until May 2021, after receiving 
notification that the cost was increasing.
As our adjudicator has said, Pinnacle declined the claim made in March 2020 because Mr 
Ds very particular circumstances at that time did not meet the terms and conditions of the 
policy. But it doesnt follow that the policy was entirely unsuitable for Mr D such that any 
claim he might potentially make would be declined, so the policy might still have been of use 
to him. Overall, having thought about everything that Mr (and Mrs) D have said, I consider it 
fair that Pinnacle did not agree to a refund of premiums from March 2020. It follows that I do 
not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and 
make no award against Pinnacle Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman