DRN-1752319
The complaint
Mr K complains about Nelson Insurance Company Ltd (Nelson)s decision to decline his 
claim following the theft of his vehicle. 
What happened
Mr K rents out vehicles and has a private and public hire motor insurance policy with Nelson.
One of Mr Ks vehicles was stolen from a renters property, Ill call this person Mr S. Mr S 
explained that he parked the vehicle on his driveway and closed the gates. When going 
indoors he placed the keys on a cabinet behind the door. He closed the door and lifted the 
handle to engage the lock. 
Around 3am in the morning, CCTV shows a person pull up in a vehicle outside Mr Ss 
property and open the gates. They then return to their vehicle and reach in to retrieve an 
item which they then hang around their neck. The thief walks past Mr Ks vehicle towards the 
house and goes off screen. Just under a minute later the lights on Mr Ks vehicle flash and a 
short time after that it is driven away. 
Nelson declined the claim as it said all reasonable precautions to safeguard the vehicle were 
not taken, as required by the policy. It said the police report records the house as being 
insecure and that keys and money were stolen. Nelson say it asked the police what insecure 
meant, and was told it meant the occupant had left the front door unlocked so the offenders 
came in. Nelson refers to the speed at which the thief was able to obtain the keys and drive 
away, supports the fact the door was unlocked. 
Mr K disagreed with the decision to decline the claim. He explained that Mr Ss front door 
has a locking mechanism whereby if the handle is lifted from the inside, the door is secured 
and can not be opened from the outside without the use of a key. Mr S disputes the door 
was left unlocked. Mr K brought the complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked at the case and considered the case law surrounding reasonable 
care. He recommended the case should be upheld. He said he didnt think Nelson had 
shown Mr S had been reckless. Hed locked the vehicle and taken the keys inside the house, 
securing the front door by lifting the handle, as hed explained he always does. 
The investigator didnt think Nelson had shown that Mr S knew the measures he was taking 
to safeguard the keys to the vehicle were inadequate or that hed recognised the risk of theft 
but taken no steps to safeguard the vehicle. He recommended Nelson pay the claim and add 
8% simple interest from the date the claim should have been paid to the date it is paid. 
Nelson disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. In 
doing so, it made the following points:
Not enough was done to adequately safeguard the vehicle.
The police report records the front door as being insecure/unlocked, which in its view 
indicates a failure to safeguard the vehicle. 
The thief gained entry easily, the key was easily accessible in under 60 seconds near 
the door. 
It doesnt think it is reasonable that someone would believe they have adequately 
secured and protected their vehicle and possessions by merely lifting the handle up 
to secure the door and leaving the vehicle key near an unlocked door. 
The case has been passed to me to decide. 
While the case has been with the service, the vehicle has been recovered. Nelson has 
confirmed due to the damage to the vehicle, it would now be classed as a write off as it is 
uneconomical to repair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it.  There is no dispute the theft took place.  The 
exclusion Nelson has relied upon in Mr Ks policy says:
You are required to take all reasonable precautions to safeguard your vehicle from loss or 
damage and maintain your vehicle in a sound, safe and efficient condition.
Nelson argues the front door was unlocked and therefore reasonable steps were not taken 
to safeguard the vehicle. 
Mr S has confirmed he always secures his front door in the same way. Lifting the handle on 
the inside disengages the outside handle so it cant be used to open the door. The only way 
to open the door from the outside is to use a key. Hes since changed the handle on the door 
for safetys sake, but the locking mechanism on the door remains the same and he still 
secures his door the same way now. 
Mr S also explained the he always puts the keys to his house and car behind the door. He 
places them on top of a shoe cupboard which has handbags and paperwork on it also. 
In order to apply an exclusion for reasonable care, an insurer has to, in effect, prove a 
policyholder has been reckless. The test for recklessness was laid down by the Court of 
Appeal in the case of Sofi v Prudential. 
In this case, I dont think Nelson has shown this. I think Mr S took what he believed to be 
reasonable steps to secure the vehicle. Hed locked it and closed the gates to his driveway. 
Hed secured his front door in the way he always does and placed the keys alongside his 
house keys and other personal possessions behind the door. Mr Ss house was also 
covered by CCTV. 
Nelson points to the fact the police report says the door was unlocked and this indicates 
reasonable steps werent taken to safeguard the car. But I dont think this description in 
itself, accurately reflects the locking mechanism on Mr Ss front door or that the door can be 
secured from the outside without the use of the key. The fact Mr S doesnt choose to 
separately engage the deadlock to the door by turning the key, doesnt mean he recognises 
the risk of not doing so and courts that risk. Because of this, I dont think Nelsons reliance 
on the word unlocked is reasonable here or proves Mr S acted recklessly. Putting things right
Given the reasons above, I dont think Mr S acted recklessly and because of this, I dont 
think Nelson was fair to apply the reasonable care exclusion to Mr Ks claim. 
To put things right, I think Nelson should now pay Mr Ks claim and add 8% simple interest 
from the date the claim should have been paid to the date it is paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint against Nelson Insurance Company Ltd 
and I require it to now pay Mr Ks claim and add 8% simple interest* from the date the claim 
should have been paid to the date it is paid.
*If Nelson Insurance Company Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman