DRN-3887798
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Crosslight Advice handled an appointment for debt advice. 
What happened
Last year, Mr M arranged an appointment with Crosslight for debt advice. Mr Ms told us the 
advisor didnt introduce themselves at the start of the call. Mr M complains that he didnt 
receive helpful or supportive advice during the call. In particular, Mr M says the options of an 
IVA or DRO were dismissed without being considered. Mr M says bankruptcy was discussed 
and that he was told he could apply directly. Mr B says that when he asked about breathing 
space it was dismissed by the advisor as he didnt have the relevant reference numbers. Mr 
M also says Crosslight obtained a credit report in his name without consent. 
Mr Ms advised that another advisor interrupted part way through and that the call was 
ultimately terminated without receiving any assistance. 
Mr M complained and Crosslight sent him a final response. Crosslight said the advisor did 
introduce themselves at the start of the call but there mayve been background noise. 
Crosslight also said it needed a more detailed breakdown of Mr Ms circumstances by way of 
an income and expenditure assessment. Crosslight added it hadnt obtained a credit report 
in his name. Crosslight didnt agree its advisors had been rude or handled the call with Mr M 
badly. Crosslight didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint. They thought Crosslight had dealt 
with Mr Ms concerns fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr M asked to appeal, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms told us he was hoping to receive debt advice when he contacted Crosslight for help. I 
understand Mr M wanted to get assistance with debts in his name. But the call was relatively 
short and Mr Ms advised it was terminated. Crosslight says it sent Mr M a request for 
information it needed in order to complete the appointment. That included an accurate 
financial statement to understand his income and outgoings. But that information wasnt 
supplied. As a result, Crosslight says that limited the information it could provide. I think 
thats a reasonable point and accept that Crosslight needed a detailed picture of Mr Ms 
circumstances in order to provide debt advice. 
Mr M says the possibility of obtaining some breathing space was dismissed. But, again, 
Crosslight said that to assess Mr Ms suitability it needed details of his finances, including up 
to date records of each debt he holds. Crosslights advised it needed the names of the 
businesses and reference numbers for that purpose but Mr M didnt have those details to 
hand. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but Im satisfied Crosslight requested reasonable 
information from Mr M during his appointment. 
Mr M also complained that Crosslight obtained a credit report in his name without consent. 
But Crosslights confirmed it didnt get a credit report for Mr M. It appears there was some 
confusion on this point as Crosslight had previously dealt with Mr M in 2020 to discuss his 
debts. At that time, it advised Mr M it would need a copy of his credit report to assist. But 
theres nothing to show it obtained a credit report directly without his consent in the run up to 
or during his appointment. 
I understand Mr M found the service provided by Crosslight to be poor. But the information 
Ive seen indicates there was a genuine misunderstanding in terms of what Crosslight could 
do for Mr M during its meeting without full details of his circumstances and debts. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr M but I havent been persuaded that Crosslight treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman