DRN-2031709
The complaint
Mr J complains TSB Bank Plc has failed to protect his account as a vulnerable customer and 
has dealt with his complaint poorly.
He is assisted in this complaint by his son  Mr CJ.
What happened
Mr J holds a joint account with his wife.  He is registered blind and in January 2018, he was 
diagnosed with dementia.  In April 2019 he was hospitalised and then placed into a care 
home  against his wishes he says  because he was not allowed back into the matrimonial 
home.  He says his wife had stopped reading out details from their joint statement and had 
also refused to provide him with any cash.  He alleges he is the victim of economic abuse.
Mr CJ complained to TSB on his fathers behalf.  He said it had failed to send account 
statements to his father and was refusing him access to the funds in the joint account  
which in his view was aiding the economic abuse being perpetrated by his wife.  Mr Js wife, 
on the other hand, had been allowed to withdraw £18,000 from the joint account.
In its final response issued in December 2019, TSB said the following:
-Mr Js wife withdrew the money before TSB was made aware of any dispute on the 
account.  Once it had been made aware, it blocked the account in line with its 
procedures  and until the dispute had been resolved;
-correspondence in relation to the complaint had only ever been sent to the address 
specified by Mr J;
-likewise, all requested statements had been sent to the address specified;
-it accepted it had provided incorrect information to Mr CJ regarding access to his 
fathers account.  It offered £75 to say sorry  and to reimburse Mr CJ with any costs 
incurred as a result of this;
-if Mr J needed medical expenses being paid, upon receipt of relevant invoices, the 
block on the account would be removed temporarily in order to make these 
payments.
But Mr CJ was not happy with this outcome and brought the complaint to this service.  He 
told us he thought a fair outcome to his complaint would be for his father to have unfettered 
access to the joint account, for all statements in relation to the joint account to be sent to his 
(Mr CJs) address and compensation for the effect this complaint had had on Mr J and on Mr 
CJ.
He also stressed he did not think TSB was taking account of his fathers vulnerabilities and 
was allowing his fathers wife to control the account.
TSB told us the terms and conditions of the joint account state another party is not allowed 
access to the account unless both account holders agree.  As Mr J is now deemed to lack 
mental capacity and Mr CJ is assigned as his Power of Attorney, this would mean Mr CJ 
having access to the account.  Mr Js wife is refusing this and is asking that Mr CJs 
application for the Power of Attorney be investigated.  It has also reminded us that the terms 
and conditions state that whilst there is an ongoing dispute, the joint account will remain 
blocked.
Finally, it says Mr CJ does have access to Mr Js sole account and TSB say there appear to 
be sufficient funds in that account to take care of Mr Js care home fees  if that is Mr CJs 
concern.
Our investigator didnt think she could ask TSB to do anymore.  She explained to Mr CJ that 
terms and conditions of the account allowed TSB to place the block on the account and for it 
to remain until the dispute between the parties had been resolved. She (the investigator) 
provided Mr CJ with a detailed explanation as why she thought TSB could not be said to 
have acted unfairly.
Mr CJ did not accept her view and asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have said above, I think the investigator has already dealt with Mr CJs complaint in 
some detail.  My decision may not be so detailed  - but thats not because Ive not 
considered everything Mr CJ has to say and his responses to this service.
In this case, I think my starting point is to look at Mr CJs desired outcome  what he has 
said he, and in turn his father, would like to see as an outcome to this complaint.  Im doing 
this because I think an explanation as to why I wont be asking TSB to do as he requests, 
may well cover all the complaint points he raises.
I think what the investigator has said is right  TSB cant be said to have behaved unfairly or 
unreasonably because it is simply deferring to the terms and conditions of the account.  Mr 
CJ has these - and Im sure has read them.  They seem quite clear in what can and cannot 
be done if there is an issue with a joint account.  It appears the Power of Attorney does not 
take precedence over these.
So, I think the terms provide an explanation for some of Mr CJs complaint points.  In relation 
to the delay in TSB responding to his complaint  I accept what he says.  But I dont think 
this is something which I would say needs to be remedied with financial compensation.
And I note that Mr CJ feels his father isnt being treated appropriately as he classes him as 
vulnerable.  But I dont think I can fairly say TSB is allowing Mr Js wife to control the account 
because she no longer has access to it  just like Mr J.  
I can see Mr CJ and Mr J have found themselves in a very difficult and stressful situation.  I 
dont know how this matter will be resolved  because it appears to me that only they and Mr 
Js wife can do so.  My role is to consider whether I think TSB has done anything wrong  
and Im afraid I dont.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman