DRN-3847124
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited handled his private medical 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Briefly, Mr G made a private medical insurance claim when he was referred to a specialist 
for varicose vein treatment. 
AXA requested a procedure code before confirming cover at the time. So Mr G sought this 
from his specialist who provided two, L8513 for EVLA treatment and L8621 for associated 
foam treatment. AXA issued an authorisation code following this and Mr G commenced 
treatment. But when Mr G told AXA hed had the first procedure (L8513) and was booked in 
for the second (L8621), it said it required a report detailing the clinical necessity for the latter. 
As the second procedure was scheduled for the following day at that point, Mr G decided to 
go ahead to avoid incurring a £100 cancellation fee while he awaited the report requested. 
But once that was provided AXA declined cover.  
AXA said it considered the foam injection being proposed as the second procedure primary 
treatment rather than a follow up procedure. And it said there was only cover for one primary 
treatment per leg during the lifetime of the policy which Mr G had already used. 
Mr G complained that AXA had given the impression both procedures would be covered and 
had later given clear inference the foam injection would still be covered if he was able to 
demonstrate it was clinically necessary. But AXA said it had never confirmed coverage of the 
foam injection, and given the terms of the policy it would not have been appropriate for it to 
do so. It agreed to contribute £150 towards the treatment however, which it said it would 
have paid had Mr G received a simple injection instead as that would have been covered. 
Our investigator thought it was fair of AXA to have paid £150 towards the follow up 
treatment. But they said it should pay £100 in compensation too because it should have 
known the foam injection wouldnt be covered when Mr G first contacted it, it had raised Mr 
Gs expectations, and Mr G had needed to communicate with it unnecessarily. 
Mr G accepted this recommendation, but AXA did not. It accepted it had made a mistake but 
said itd provided adequate redress by way of the £150 on an ex-gratis basis. It said it hadnt 
raised Mr Gs expectations either. And it was only trying to help by requesting the additional 
rationale for the foam injection. So the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings will not address every single point or argument made. They will instead address 
those matters I consider both central and relevant to the outcome of this complaint. Having 
considered everything I have reached the same outcome as the investigator before me and 
will now explain why.
AXA has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly and to not reject them 
unreasonably. When it originally asked for a procedure code, Mr G explained the following, I 
have spoken to (the specialist) and they have told me that the procedure code for a EVLA 
treatment is L8513 and and [sic] associated foam treatment is L8621. 
Given the information provided to it at the time I agree AXA should have known the second 
procedure wasnt something it would consider follow up treatment and cover. AXA has now 
acknowledged this mistake, but prior to doing so I note that it replied to Mr G and said:
Following our conversation, were happy to confirm that your [sic] covered for this 
operation
Your plan covers the following:
One surgical procedure per leg if needed, to treat varicose veins. This may be a foam 
injection (sclerotherapy), ablation or other surgery. This is the proposed L8513 procedure 
[emphasis added].
One follow-up consultation with your specialist.
One simple injection per leg (sclerotherapy) to treat residual or remaining veins when its 
carried out in the six months after the main surgical procedure. This is the proposed L8621 
procedure [emphasis added].
Given the chain of correspondence here, I think it was reasonable for Mr G to have taken the 
above as having meant both L8513 and L8621 would be covered. And so I understand why 
he commenced treatment as a result.
AXA says Mr Gs specialist performed varicose vein surgery all the time and dealt with AXA 
patients so would have known what was classed as a follow-up procedure. It also says it 
was Mr Gs choice to still go ahead with the foam injection despite having later become 
aware it might not be covered. I appreciate this but dont think it changes things for Mr G. 
He had been provided with two codes from his specialist. He had then given those codes to 
AXA. And in response he had received correspondence which he reasonably understood to 
have meant both were covered. Mr G had also gone on to have additional calls with AXA 
following its mistake, which had further implied that it only needed additional medical 
rationale before providing cover for the foam injection.
AXA says those calls werent unnecessary; it was trying to establish eligibility for the second 
procedure at that point. I agree it was trying to establish eligibility. But Im mindful that had it 
identified the second procedure wouldnt be covered when Mr G first provided the codes, it 
wouldnt have needed to have a number of calls at a later date, even if that were to establish 
eligibility. Rather, Mr G would have known from the outset and before commencing 
treatment thered be no cover for the second procedure.
In an effort to try and remedy its mistake AXA has already contributed £150. Im pleased it 
did this, especially as its original authorisation suggested it was prepared to cover a follow 
up procedure and it would have done had Mr G undergone a simple injection rather than a 
foam one. But I dont think this remedy quite represents the full impact of AXAs mistake on 
Mr G and agree compensation is warranted too. As I noted above, Mr G was reasonably under the impression both procedures would be 
covered, and with the first having gone ahead was again given the impression the second 
would be covered if he were able to provide medical rationale for it. Despite providing that he 
was told there would be no coverage, but AXA has now accepted it should have known this 
when the two procedure codes were first provided. So, thinking about the impact of that 
here, I too agree that Mr G was put to unnecessary inconvenience by having to speak to 
AXA about the matter over a number of calls and seek additional supporting evidence. 
For those reasons I also think £100 represents a fair and proportionate reflection of the 
impact of AXAs mistake on Mr G. 
Putting things right
AXA should put things right by paying £100 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA PPP Healthcare Limited should put 
things right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman