DRN-3248606
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) continued charging her 
excessive amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mrs R complained to Santander about the charges applied to her account when she was in 
financial difficulty. She said Santander was dismissive of her complaint, so she referred the 
complaint to our service.
Mrs Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Mrs R was experiencing financial difficulty by 24 February 2015 
and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mrs Rs 
overdraft from 24 February 2015. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mrs R was in 
no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mrs R was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. Santanders own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Mrs Rs overdraft usage should have prompted Santander to have realised 
that Mrs R wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. 
It was also clear that Mrs R was having difficulty managing her money. Mrs Rs statements 
show that she had a number of returned direct debits or paid item fees, and was clearly 
using her overdraft to make ends meet as she was reliant on it to meet essential payments. 
In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Mrs R was at a significant risk of 
experiencing financial difficulty and so should have been treated with forbearance rather 
than having had even more interest, fees and charges added to her overdraft. As Santander 
didnt react to Mrs Rs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I 
think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Mrs R ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander 
didnt treat Mrs R fairly and she lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Rs complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 24 February 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mrs R to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Mrs R is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to 
reach a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mrs Rs credit file, Santander should reflect what would have been 
recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft 
from 24 February 2015. Santander can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount 
of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
Mrs R over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mrs Rs credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Mrs Rs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman