DRN-3686775
The complaint
Ms F complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited mishandled her motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Markerstudy, I include employees and others insofar as I hold Markerstudy 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
For the year from October 2020, Ms F had her vehicle insured on a policy with Markerstudy.
In June 2021, Ms F was involved in an incident that was reported to Markerstudy.
For the year from October 2021, Ms F renewed her policy with Markerstudy. At about the 
same time, Ms F complained to Markerstudy that - although it had been reported for 
information only  Markerstudy had recorded the incident on Claims Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE).
By a final response dated late December 2021, Markerstudy turned down the complaint. 
Unhappy with that, Ms F brought her complaint to us in late January 2022. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Markerstudy didnt do anything wrong by recording the incident on CUE.
Ms F disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She did not claim.
This was logged as an incident claim and is affecting her premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Different insurers may assess future risk in different ways. Some will assess risk with greater 
emphasis on the number of incidents as well as the number of claims. I cant say thats 
unfair.
Ms F had been involved in an accident in December 2019, according to the statement of fact 
documents for the years from October 2020 and from October 2021. 
From the policy documents for the year from October 2020, I see that the insurance 
premium for that year was about £410.00. 
From the correspondence, I see that in June 2021, Ms F reported an incident on a 
motorway, when something fell off another vehicle. I accept that Ms F didnt make a claim on 
her policy.
I would expect an insurer to record such a reported incident on CUE. Notwithstanding the 
inclusion of the word Claims in its name, CUE is a database that includes incidents that 
havent resulted in claims.  
From the policy documents for the year from October 2021, I see that the insurance 
premium for that year was about £550.00. That was based on a statement of fact document 
that was much the same as the previous year, but with the addition of an accident in June 
2021. I dont find that an unreasonable way for Markerstudy to have recorded the incident in 
June 2021.
Other insurers mightve assessed the risk differently and quoted a different premium. 
But overall I dont consider that Markerstudy treated Ms F unfairly. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Markerstudy to change the way it has recorded the incident in June 
2021 or to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman