DRN-3974017
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with the payment of some of the costs following a claim under his landlord 
insurance policy.  
For ease of reading any reference to Accredited includes its agents.
What happened
Mr P was due to be paid a payment following a storm damage claim. Payment was delayed 
for a short period and Mr P felt the delay was deliberate, so he complained to Accredited 
about this and about the poor service he received.
Accredited looked into Mr Ps complaint. It acknowledged the delay in payment, the poor 
service Mr P received, and that Mr P may have been lied to about the delay in payment. It 
offered Mr P £350 by way of compensation and explained that it would deal with any 
problems about the payment and lessons learnt internally. But Mr P still wasnt happy, so he 
complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P, but he thought Accrediteds explanation and 
offer of £350 was fair. But Mr P didnt feel the compensation was anywhere near enough and 
felt that this Service should look at how his complaint was handled. And undertake further 
investigation into what happened when his payment was delayed including what happened 
when he felt he was lied to about the delay in making payment. So, the matter has been 
passed to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that the way Mr Ps complaint was dealt with by Accredited has caused him further 
stress and worry in addition to the delay in making payment. But as our investigator has 
explained, complaint handling isnt something this Service can consider. I know Mr P isnt 
happy about this and wants this to be considered but Im afraid our rules dont allow this, so I 
wont comment further about the way his complaint was advanced and considered.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Plus, as both sides are aware this Service is an informal alternative to the courts. And we 
dont look to punish businesses we simply try and put consumers back into the position they 
would have been but for any error made. 
What isnt in dispute here is that the payment Mr P was due in relation to storm damage was 
delayed. And I feel it is also clearly accepted that the explanation and communication about 
why the delay happened has contributed to Mr Ps difficulty in accepting the error. 
I cant be sure from the evidence before me what did and didnt happen here and it is 
possible that one of Accrediteds agents staff members wasnt truthful about this. I know Mr 
P feels the payment not being made was deliberate, but I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
support this although there was clearly a delay and an error. 
However, I think Accrediteds offer of £350 compensation seems fair. I know Mr P would like 
thousands of pounds by way of compensation and appears to want to punish Accredited 
here. But this level of compensation (£350) is in line with the kind of award this Service 
ordinarily makes, and we arent here to punish businesses. 
Mr P has been signposted to other bodies that he may wish to advance some of his wider 
concerns with which he is free to do. But I think Accrediteds offer of compensation alongside 
looking to learn lessons about why the delay happened and any miscommunication or any 
deliberate act of untruthfulness, for whatever reason, seems fair. 
Ultimately, Mr Ps payment was delayed for a few days and that is the main impact here. I 
can understand why Mr P feels so strongly about all of this as he feels he was lied to about 
the delay in payment which he feels was intentional. But even if that was the case, and I 
cant be sure about this from the information before me, the direct impact of this was a few 
days delay and I think the level of compensation offered for this feels fair. 
I know Mr P would like thousands of pounds more in compensation and other issues 
considered. But even if I was to consider these wider issues further I would still think an 
award of £350 is fair in the particular circumstances of this complaint. A lot of Mr Ps ongoing 
difficulties and stress stem from the fact that he wont accept the response made by 
Accredited as opposed to the original error that was made.
Given all of this, and I know this will be disappointing to Mr P, I think Accredited has acted 
fairly in offering £350 compensation in acknowledgement of the delay in payment and the 
poor service Mr P received. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds offer 
of £350 compensation in acknowledgement of how poorly it dealt with the settlement of Mr 
Ps claim feels fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman