DRN-3939971
The complaint
Ms A, through her representative, complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC, lent to her before 
carrying out the proper checks and so it lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms A was approved for one loan in June 2016. The loan was to be for debt consolidation 
and she borrowed  £5,600 plus the interest which was £4,841 over 48 months which meant 
a total to repay of £10,441. Her repayments were scheduled to be just over £217 each 
month. 
Ms A entered a debt management plan through a third party in August 2017. The account 
was paid off and closed in November 2019. 
Ms A, through her representative, complained to AvantCredit in October 2022 and received 
its final response letter (FRL) dated 13 October 2022. AvantCredit did not uphold her 
complaint. So, Ms As representative referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
November 2022. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She thought that the combination of Ms As credit 
file, which AvantCredit had obtained before lending, plus the defaulted and delinquent 
accounts to which payments were likely being made, plus her existing credit commitments 
led her to think that Ms A was not able to afford this AvantCredit loan as well for 48 months. 
So, she thought that AvantCredit should put things right for Ms A.
AvantCredit disagreed and sent additional information and submissions as to why it thought 
that an ombudsman should review the complaint. I have summarised here the points it has 
made. Those in italics are quotes from AvantCredit:
The customer took this loan for debt consolidation, with the goal for the customer to 
consolidate debt into a lower and affordable monthly payment.
It assumed Ms A was truthful saying that she was consolidating debts
It did not know which of the debts Ms A planned to use the AvantCredit funds to 
consolidate.
By consolidating their debts, the customer would reduce their unsecured credit 
commitment post loan to an estimated £383.52 (£318.52 of regular payments and 
£65 to make above minimum payments) which is 15% of the customers stated 
income.
The customer has a joint mortgages on their account, which totals £1,267 per month, 
we would normally apportion this at 50% of that amount to this customer, however 
the customer has told us in the application they pay the larger mortgage at £778 wo 
[sic] we have removed that value from the expenses stated of £2000, as well as the 
utilities expense of £76 as this is covered in the credit commitments.
AvantCredit had done some calculations using this estimated set of figures to 
demonstrate that it considered Ms A would have had about £217 of disposable 
income (after the expenses and credits had been paid) and possibly more.
It had accessed her bank account to view transactions leading up to the loan 
approval and it sent us those records (which it had not sent to our adjudicator) 
Ms As representative acknowledged receipt of the view.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to think 
about in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Avant completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms A  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Ms A  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Avant did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms A and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Avant to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms As ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Ms A. In 
practice this meant that Avant had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Ms A undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms A. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms As complaint. And Ive decided to uphold it and I give my 
reasons here.AvantCredit has sent us many submissions after our adjudicators view was received by it 
about the debt consolidation part. In fact, its recent submissions have been helpful to point 
out that a further account had defaulted over and above the ones it had marked on its credit 
search summary as being defaulted. And I thank AvantCredit for that. To be clear it said to 
us:
We would also highlight the £749 Advance against income loan is being paid down 
at £3 per month, not the £772 value in the credit report and the lender should be 
notifying the bureau this account is in default officially as it is an inaccurate 
representation.
Avant Credit has sent to us its own views and an estimated set of figures based on its theory 
and, I think, guesswork as to what Ms A planned to use the loan capital for in 2016. And 
I say that because theres no evidence that AvantCredit had asked Ms A what she was 
planning to do with the money  or that it had made a note of the debts being consolidated. 
And the language it has used gives the clear impression these are all assumed, for example 
it said:  
The customer has communicated that they intended to consolidate and whilst they 
have not specified what debts that will consolidate, we believe it is reasonable to 
assume that the customer was truthful in their purpose given the other appropriate 
checks that were done. We then make a logical assumption of how the loan will be 
used based on the credit file information.
Using the AvantCredit loan the customer would be able to clear 4 of their credit 
accounts (detailed below), their current unsecured spending from the credit file is 
£1,218 and with an estimated £68 to make above minimum payments on other 
accounts, the customer would be spending around £1,286 in total per month, which 
is 51% of the customers stated income of £2,525.
And the table it provided which is what it refers to as the part detailed below showed me 
that it had chosen four loans which it had assumed Ms A would most likely have used its 
funds to consolidate. And I am not convinced and hence I am not persuaded by its assumed 
consolidation plan by Ms A. I explain here.
Those four chosen were a mail order account with a £60 balance, the Advance Against 
Income loan it has earlier told us was only costing Ms A £3 a month, and a loan which had a 
balance of only £280 on it. And the fourth loan it chose to include in its assumed list was an 
unsecured loan which had commenced in September 2014 and had a balance of £4,459 on 
it where its original term had been 60 months. So, by June 2016 Ms A would likely have 
been some way into paying down that loan  about 22 months into a 60 month term. None of 
these assumed choices by AvantCredit are ones Id consider to have been the likely choices 
to consolidate into an expensive 48 month term loan. 
Ive thought about all it has said carefully but I have decided that I do not accept its 
suppositions as to what Ms A may or may not have done with the £5,600 capital almost 
seven years ago. 
What I have done is evaluated the information it obtained from Ms A and from its own 
searches at the time and whether those checks were proportionate. And, whether the 
information it obtained fully furnished it with all it needed to carry out the required 
creditworthiness assessment. 
The amount of £5,600 plus the term of 48 months was a long commitment for Ms A to make 
and so I would have expected AvantCredit to have carried out a full financial review of 
Ms As circumstances. Here, as AvantCredit had verified her income by checking her bank account transactions 
and had obtained a credit search then I consider it had the full picture. 
But having obtained all that information I think it had to consider what it had carefully before 
lending and I do not think it did that. Sending submissions now on assumptions and on 
estimates does not persuade me that it did what it ought to have done in 2016. 
Ms As application indicated that she earned around £2,525 as take home pay each month 
and her monthly expenses were £500. AvantCredit must have seen what I have observed 
from the bank account transaction checks that she did receive £2,529 from her employer on 
26 May 2016, on 26 April 2016 and £2,514 in March 2016. So AvantCredit was confident as 
to Ms As income and that it was a stable income. But Ms As own application made it clear 
that with a £525 difference between her expenses (as declared) and her income then the 
repayments for the £5,600 loan were going to take a fair portion of what was left - £217 from 
£525 each month.
AvantCredit has pointed out that she received a further £82 a month as child benefit and 
I have factored that in. 
Its own documentation demonstrates to me that Ms A had a history of bad debts and 
although the defaults were a few years before the June 2016 application to AvantCredit, still 
it would have been aware of the extent of those defaulted accounts. Added to which it has 
pointed out a further one. Plus, it had noted that Ms A had a delinquent account.
So, using the information it has supplied I have summarised the information AvantCredit had 
before lending to Ms A as follows:
four defaulted accounts from 2012 and 2013.
One delinquent credit card account from July 2015 with a balance of £6,044 and 
clearly in arrears. So Ms A would have had to have been paying more than the 
minimum amount. 5% as a minimum repayment percentage is around £302 a month 
and so likely she was having to repay more than that. 
A further defaulted account described as a loan against income which had 
commenced in 2012 but it was unclear when that had defaulted. 
Ms A had two unsecured loans costing her £197 and £148 each month, the second 
one had a relatively low balance as was likely to be paid off within a couple of 
months.
Her two residential mortgages combined cost was £1,267 and AvantCredit has said 
that these were joint accounts and Ms A had informed it she paid the larger figure of 
£778 each month. I have not seen any evidence of that from the information I have 
but I have proceeded with AvantCredits approach.
Ms A had a mail order account with a low balance of £60
She paid around £76 per month for electricity
From the bank transactions list, sent to us recently, I have been able to cross-reference 
many of these payments but Ive also identified the following about which AvantCredit was 
aware as it has sent us the information:
A payday loan with a well-known high-cost lender costing £18 a month
Ms A was being charged for overdraft fees and although that overdraft may not have 
been high, she was using it 
Ms A had at least one unpaid transaction fee (20 May 2016) and returns of payments 
are an indication she had been exceeding her overdraft and so not managing her 
money wellShed obtained a high-cost credit loan from another lender (£2,000 credited her 
account on 26 May 2016) days before she applied for this loan with AvantCredit 
which in my view demonstrates that this was a person in need of a lot of credit in a 
short space of time. And this was not likely on the credit search summary tables 
AvantCredit has sent us as it was such a new loan, and so was an additional and 
new commitment to service going forward
Ms A was regularly repaying two sets of debt collection agencies  these look to 
have been £30 and £25 a month
Ms A was regularly paying a firm of solicitors around £500 a month 
And although I can see credits from another account, I can also track the debits back 
to that other account and they are pretty much even out and so I do not consider that 
this likely was an alternative source of funds. 
Overall, I have utilised the information AvantCredit has provided to us and which it had in 
2016 and my view is that it lent to Ms A when she was in a difficult situation financially.
If it had wanted to check and verify that she was going to utilise the £5,600 to reduce her 
debt burden in some way then it ought to have done that at the time. Ive looked at the 
account notes and Ive seen nothing which suggests to me that was done. And that indicates 
that it lent to her knowing there was a risk she did not paydown other debt but in fact may 
have ended up with a further credit commitment to service of over £217 a month.
And I think that likely was what happened as relatively quickly after it had lent to her Ms A 
was contacting it to inform AvantCredit she was entering into a debt management plan  
August 2017. 
I uphold Ms As complaint. 
Putting things right
Avant Credit needs to do as follows:
refund all interest and charges Ms A paid on this loan;
pay interest of 8% simple interest* a year on any refunded interest and charges from 
the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Ms As credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct that Avant Credit of UK, LLC does 
as I have outlined in the putting things right part of my decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman