DRN-1417200
 
The complaint
Ms L complains about the settlement shes been offered by Fairmead Insurance Limited for 
a fire damage claim she made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2018, Ms L got in touch with Fairmead to make a claim on her home insurance 
policy. Shed suffered fire damage to her garage. Fairmead appointed a surveyor to inspect 
the damage and to work out what repairs would be needed.
Fairmeads surveyor accepted the claim. It said it couldnt use Fairmeads repair network to 
get the repairs done because a third party property was also involved. So Fairmead said it 
would need to pay Ms L a cash settlement for her claim. It asked her to get quotes for the 
repairs.
Ms L got two quotes for the repair works. One was around £4800 and one was around 
£5600. Fairmead thought the quotes were too high. The quotes included getting the whole 
garage roof replaced and Fairmeads surveyor didnt think this was necessary. So it offered 
Ms L cash settlement based on the costs it wouldve incurred if its suppliers had done the 
repairs based on a scope of works drawn up by its surveyor. This offer was for around £1120 
(less the policy excess of £350).
Ms L wasnt happy with Fairmeads offer, so she complained. The surveyor looked at 
everything again and decided to increase the offer to around £1228 (before the deduction of 
the excess).
But Ms L still wasnt happy with Fairmeads offer. She got more quotes for the repair works. 
These quotes were for substantially more money  one at around £6200 and one around 
£10,500. Fairmead thought the prices quoted were disproportionately high given the repairs 
that needed to be done. So it didnt change its offer. And it sent Ms L a final response letter 
in December 2018 which maintained this offer.
Ms L told Fairmead that the third party wasnt planning to rebuild his property. Fairmead 
looked at what work would need to be done to Ms Ls garage given this and thought some of 
it wouldnt be covered, because it happened after the fire. But in May 2019, it sent Ms L a 
scope of works for the extra work it thought should be covered. It asked Ms L to get two 
quotes for these additional works based on its scope of works. It said once it had these 
quotes, it could review its offer and look at making a revised offer of settlement.
Ms L still wasnt happy with Fairmeads settlement offer. She asked us to look into her 
complaint. She wasnt happy with the cash settlement it had offered and said other 
contractors thought the offer was laughable. She also didnt think it was fair that shed had to 
pay an excess, given a third party had admitted liability for causing the fire.Our investigator didnt think Ms Ls complaint should be upheld. He thought Fairmeads 
surveyor had done enough to establish what works were required. And he felt the surveyor 
had tried to get an understanding of why the other quotes were so high. He said Ms L had 
mentioned during a call that a contractor had told her she might as well get all her roof tiles 
replaced. But he didnt think Fairmead needed to pay for parts of the roof that werent 
damaged. Overall, he felt Fairmead had settled the claim in line with its policy terms.
Ms L disagreed with our investigator. She said the garage had been so damaged; it couldnt 
be repaired by the settlement Fairmead had offered. She didnt think it was fair she had to 
pay an excess. She sent in several photos of her garage to show the extent of the damage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Fairmead has 
treated Ms L fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Ive carefully considered the terms of Ms Ls policy to see how Fairmead chooses to 
settle claims. In deciding whether an insurer has settled a claim fairly and reasonably, I need 
to consider what the policy says. And I need to consider whether Fairmeads dealt with a 
claim in line with the policy terms.
Under the Our rights when you make a claim section of the policy, it states:
We may nominate one of our specialist suppliers to repair or replace the property claimed 
for. Where you prefer to use your own tradesman, or we elect to settle the claim by cash 
payment, the amount we pay you will not exceed what we would have paid our supplier, 
except when our supplier is unable to repair or replace the property.
Ms L has confirmed shed like a cash settlement for her claim. In any event, given a third 
partys property was involved in the repairs that needed to be done, Fairmead decided it 
wouldnt be appropriate for one of its suppliers to do the repairs. So Fairmead elected to 
cash settle Ms Ls claim. This means Fairmead is entitled to limit the settlement to what it 
wouldve cost it to get the works done. 
Its clear there are significant differences between the settlement Fairmeads offered and the 
quotes Ms Ls contractors have provided. So Ive thought carefully about how Fairmead 
arrived at its settlement figure in December 2018 and whether I think it did so fairly.
Ive considered the scope of works Fairmeads surveyor thought were necessary at the 
outset. Im conscious this offer was open to further discussion in May 2019, after Ms L told 
Fairmead the third party wouldnt be going ahead with rebuilding their property. It isnt clear 
whether Ms L did send Fairmead two quotes for the further work it referred to at that point or 
whether the offer increased after May 2019. 
Ms Ls now told our investigator the third party is getting their property rebuilt though, so it 
seems a further discussion might need to be had between Ms L and Fairmead about what 
works are required. I should be clear  that my decision is limited to whether I think 
Fairmeads offer was fair in December 2018, when it sent its final response. Ms L also hasnt 
suggested any further settlement offers been made since then.
Ive looked at the contractors quotes and Fairmeads scope of works to try to establish the 
difference in cost. Theres a broad range of quotation costs even across the third party 
contractors. The major difference in price appears to be that the contractors quotes include 
the costs of re-roofing the entire garage roof, rather than just the damaged areas. There are scaffolding costs which the surveyor didnt think were necessary. There are also 
differences in the labour rates.
Fairmeads surveyor spoke to one of the contractors whod provided a quote to try to get an 
understanding of why there was such a difference in costs. I think this was a reasonable 
response and it suggests to me that the surveyor was open to reconsidering the works that 
were necessary. It appears the contractor thought the roof needed to be replaced because 
all the tiles were cracked and there was a difference in labour charges. 
Ive looked closely at the photos Ive been sent of the damage to the garage roof. I can see 
there is a fair amount of damage to some tiles and in particular, to some of the beams. Its 
clear that repairs were necessary. But I dont think it looks like all the roof tiles were cracked 
or damaged. So based on the expert opinion of the surveyor and the photos Ive seen, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Fairmead to decide the whole roof didnt require 
replacement.
Insurers are generally only responsible for paying for damage caused by something covered 
by the policy. I dont think Fairmead is responsible for replacing the whole garage roof if this 
wasnt all damaged by the fire. And I think its reasonable for Fairmead to limit the labour 
costs its prepared to pay to what its suppliers daily labour rate would be. It seems to me 
that Fairmead calculated the settlement based on what it wouldve cost its suppliers to get 
the actual damage repaired. And based on all Ive seen, I think Fairmead calculated the 
settlement fairly.
Ive turned to consider the excess of £350 Ms L is responsible for paying. I appreciate Ms L 
feels its unfair that she needs to pay an excess when a third partys accepted liability for 
causing the damage. Ive looked again at Ms Ls policy. This says:
We will not pay for:
The excess shown on your policy schedule.
Ms Ls excess is £350. The policy defines an excess as the amount you will pay towards 
each separate claim.  So under the terms of Ms Ls policy, Fairmead is entitled to deduct the 
first £350 from a claim payment. Most, if not all policies include an excess which a 
policyholder needs to pay towards their claim. 
In this case, I can see Fairmead has explained its recovery process to Ms L. Once the claim 
costs have been finalised, it may be able to attempt to recover the monies it paid out. And 
recovery might include the excess Ms L paid.
But I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to deduct the excess from the settlement it offered 
her. 
Overall, I think Fairmead has treated Ms L fairly. So I wont be telling it to increase its offer. If 
Ms L would like to get in touch with Fairmead to discuss progressing the claim following her 
correspondence with it in May, its open to her to do so. If shes unhappy with the outcome of 
those discussions, including any revised offer, she may be able to bring a new complaint to 
us about that issue. But we wouldnt consider the merits of this particular complaint again.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman