DRN-3560808
The complaint
Mr G complains that, during the course of a corporate action, Halifax Share Dealing Limited 
(HSD) was responsible for delays and failures in communication and he says it didnt deal 
fairly with him or properly carry out his instructions. Mr G is also unhappy about the way that 
HSD has handled his complaint and says hes suffered a lot of frustration as a result of what 
happened. To put things right Mr G expects HSD to pay him £141.81 to cover the shortfall in 
the value he was expecting to receive for his shares and additional compensation.
What happened
Mr G had an execution only share dealing account with HSD. His share portfolio included 
2966 shares in a company I will call P. 
On 17th December 2021, P announced a corporate action which included a proposal to buy 
back shares by way of a Tender Offer. 
HSD sent Mr G online notification of the corporate action on 24th December. This included 
information which explained that the tender offer was to pay 87p in cash for each P ordinary 
share successfully tendered and that P would guarantee the repurchase of up to 40% of a 
shareholders holding  referred to as the Basic Entitlement. Mr G had two options - he 
could either accept the tender offer on the whole of his P shareholding or alternatively on 
part of it. HSD said the result of the tender offer was expected to be announced on 
17 January 2022 and cash payment for shares tendered was expected to be received on or 
after 21 January 2022. 
Mr G told us that when he phoned HSD to understand what this all meant, he was referred to 
Ps prospectus on the website for guidance. 
After reading the prospectus, on 7 January 2022 Mr G decided he wanted to accept the 
tender offer on 40% of his shareholding, which he calculated would be 1186 shares. He 
made his online election accordingly on HSDs website, thinking this would guarantee him a 
payment of at least 87p for each of those 1186 shares. So Mr G was expecting to receive a 
payment of £1,031.82. The same day he sold his remaining 1780 P shares. 
Mr G said he rang HSD several times after 21 January to chase up the payment he was 
expecting. 
On 31 January, HSD sent Mr G online notification of the results of the tender offer.
HSD didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It said that Mr G had effectively 
misunderstood the offer terms. And because he had reduced his shareholding a week before 
the tender offer was due to go ahead by selling 1780 shares (60% of his shareholding at the 
time) HSD said the tender offer couldnt have been applied to 100% of his remaining holding 
of 1186 shares  only to a minimum of 40% of this holding.  
HSD said that, in the event, 86% of this holding was tendered which was way more than 
the guaranteed 40%. This resulted in Mr G receiving a payment of £890.01 (based on the 
price of 87p per share for 86% of his holding of 1186 shares) and it left Mr G with 163 
P shares in his account. 
When Mr G escalated his complaint to one of HSDs directors, he was upset to receive back 
an email from one of HSDs customer relations team which reiterated HSDs view that it had 
done everything correctly and no mistakes were made regarding the P corporate action.
This prompted Mr G to bring his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into 
what happened. Our investigator said he couldnt fairly say that HSD had done anything 
wrong and he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr G disagrees with the investigator. In brief summary, Mr G expressed his views as follows:
he feels its unfair that no account is taken of the fact that HSD has failed to respond 
to this service regarding his complaint as a consequence of this failure is that 
recorded 'phone calls cannot be listened to in support of his complaint
HSD failed to escalate his complaint to the director as he requested 
HSD held his shares as nominee, so Mr G was reliant on HSD exercising its duty of 
care to shareholders that invest in company shares through it and HSD failed on 
several counts
HSD's initial corporate action notification on 24 December 2021 clearly stated that a 
shareholder's 'Basic Entitlement' i.e. 40% of their shareholding was guaranteed to be 
repurchased at 87p per share. HSD had a simple 'button' system for shareholders on 
its online system to select the number of shares that would be that shareholder's 
Basic Entitlement. Mr G selected option 2 and selected 1186 shares as his Basic 
Entitlement, which left him free to do what he wanted with the rest of the shares.
Ps prospectus confirms that a shareholder's total shareholding was deemed to be at 
the date of the publication of the prospectus, 17 December 2021. HSD lagged behind many of the timetable dates in the Prospectus. A key issue for 
Mr G is the fact that HSD did not confirm the outcome of the tender process until 
31 January 2022, several days after P shares had stopped trading. This gave Mr G 
no opportunity to act on the shares hed been left with, that hed thought were 
covered by the tender offer but due to the errors by HSD were now effectively 
illiquid and useless to him.

As the complaint is unresolved, it comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my 
approach and how I've reached my decision.
I do appreciate how strongly Mr G feels about this complaint. I want to assure him that Ive 
carried out an independent review and considered everything he has told me. We provide an 
informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the 
complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to 
address in order to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention everything 
Mr G has brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of his concerns in my own words. 
But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint 
and try and deal with his main points of concern.  
Its my understanding that the crux of Mr Gs complaint is that he blames HSD for the fact 
that he didnt receive the value he expected for the shares that he regarded as his Basic 
Entitlement.  
Mr G feels hed made his intentions clear to HSD and it owed him a duty of care. But Im 
mindful that HSD wasnt providing an advisory service to Mr G and he had relied on the 
information in Ps prospectus when he decided to sell off a proportion of his shareholding. So 
I cant fairly say that HSD is responsible for Mr G choosing to do that  it was up to Mr G to 
decide how he wanted to respond to the corporate action.  
Mr G provided a link Ps prospectus and I've looked carefully at this.
Mr G relied on wording in the prospectus that referred to your current shareholding which 
he took to mean his shareholding as at the date of the announcement on 17 December 
2021. He had a holding of 2966 P shares on that date and he worked out his figures 
accordingly 
But the way Mr G chose to interpret this wording was clearly at odds with what the terms and 
conditions of the tender offer went on to explain in more detail. 
In paragraph 1.5 it says:
The Basic Entitlement shown on a Shareholders personalised Tender Form has been 
calculated on the basis of the number of Ordinary Shares registered in the name of that 
Shareholder at close of business on 16 December 2021. If a Shareholder buys or sells 
Ordinary Shares between that date and the Record Date, being 6.00 pm on 14 January 
2022, his Basic Entitlement will change and the Shareholder must notify the Companys 
Registrars  and, if he holds his Ordinary Shares in certificated form, he will be supplied 
with a new Tender Form reflecting his revised Basic Entitlement figure.This information was repeated elsewhere in the terms and conditions, including in explicit 
terms in paragraph 4.1 which explained the procedure for tendering ordinary shares and 
said: If you buy or sell any Ordinary Shares between 16 December 2021 and the Record 
Date of 6.00pm on 14 January 2022, you should contact the Companys 
Registrars..immediately to determine your revised Basic Entitlement 
This meant that when Mr G sold some of his P shares on 7 January 2022, it impacted on the 
way the offer terms would apply to his remaining shareholding on 14 January 2022. His 
Basic Entitlement, in other words the shares covered by the 87p price guarantee, was 
different following the sale of the P shares as it was worked out based on his actual 
shareholding on the record date (14 January 2022). By then, Mr G had a reduced holding of 
1186 shares.
This leads me to conclude that HSD carried out Mr Gs instructions correctly in line with the 
terms of the corporate action - even if it didnt produce the results Mr G was expecting. 
There is no shortfall in terms of what Mr G could reasonably have expected to receive. In 
the event, he benefitted from getting the price of 87p per share applied to 86% of his holding 
of 1186 shares. That is better than he might have thought hed get had he properly 
understood the offer terms. By my reckoning, Mr G could reasonably have expected to 
receive 87p per share on just 40% of his shareholding on the record date which would only 
have given him a little over £400. I mention this in the hope that it may ultimately give Mr G 
some satisfaction to know that he hasnt lost out to the extent he felt he had  in fact, he 
gained more than he might reasonably have expected to. 
In coming to my decision, I havent overlooked the fact that its a source of frustration to 
Mr G that HSD hasnt engaged with us in connection with his complaint - nor did the director 
respond to his detailed letter, which Mr G sent in an effort to bring matters to an amicable 
resolution without the need to escalate his complaint further. But this doesnt affect the 
outcome of Mr Gs complaint. There was no obligation on HSDs director to reply to Mr Gs 
letter. HSD had already sent its final response letter explaining the next steps he could take 
if he was dissatisfied. 
And I have been able to reach a decision that reflects what I consider to be a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint without the need for any further information from HSD. 
I have relied on all the information and supporting paperwork supplied by Mr G. Hes 
mentioned that I havent been able to listen to call recordings. But Ive accepted what Mr G 
told me about the call when HSD referred him to the prospectus when he had questions 
about the terms of the tender offer. So I've no reason to think thats not what happened. This 
doesnt suggest that HSD did anything wrong or acted in a way that wasnt fair and 
reasonable when it did this. 
I havent been provided with the specific terms of reference of HSDs agreement with Mr G 
but I am satisfied that it would have been responsible for telling Mr G about any corporate 
actions that affected his shares. HSD told Mr G that it sent him the necessary notifications 
and information as soon as HSD received details and was able to pass on the information. 
And from what I've seen, it did this  Mr Gs account was an online account and HSD 
notified him about relevant corporate actions through the online platform within what seems 
to me a reasonable time and without any significant delay that would warrant me awarding 
compensation.Mr G told us HSD communicated its Results of Tender Offer on 31 January 2022 which 
confirmed that shares that were not successfully tendered have now been credited back 
to your account. Im mindful that the results of the tender offer were announced on 17 
January 2022 and the proceeds of successfully tendered shares were expected to be 
credited to members accounts on 21 January and cheques despatched the same day. So 
I can understand why Mr G was concerned that HSD didnt issue its Results of Tender Offer 
sooner. But as this was an execution only account, Ive kept in mind that it was Mr Gs 
responsibility to keep up to date with any changes and, if required, to give any instructions to 
HSD. He would have been able to see as soon as his shares that hadnt been successfully 
tendered were credited back to his account - he didnt need to wait for HSD to tell him this 
information. And given that he was aware that the tender offer didnt seem to have worked 
out in the way he expected, I think its reasonable to expect that Mr G would have kept a 
close on everything that was happening in his account.
In order to be able to uphold Mr Gs complaint, I have to find that HSD did something wrong 
or acted in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable, and that this impacted detrimentally on 
Mr G. For all the reasons I have explained, I dont find that HSD is responsible for Mr G not 
having achieved the full value he expected would be the result of the corporate action nor is 
HSD to blame for the fact that he has been left with unwanted P shares. 
  
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr G but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman