DRN-3504008
The complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles unfairly closed his credit card and 
recorded a default on his credit file. Mr D also complains that Marbles harassed him for 
payment. 
What happened
Mr D had a Marbles credit card and in December 2020 entered a payment arrangement of 
£45 a month. Payments were made in December 2020 and January 2021 but no payment 
was received in February or March 2021. At this point, the balance exceeded the credit limit 
and two payments had been missed. 
During March 2021 Marbles sent Mr D various letters about the arrears on his account and 
asked him to make contact. On 30 March 2021 Marbles sent Mr D a letter that said he 
needed to pay £45 within seven days. Marbles letter said that if no payment was received it 
could notify the credit reference agencies and sell Mr Ds account to a debt purchaser. 
On 8 April 2021 Mr D paid £700 towards the outstanding balance. But by that point, Mr Ds 
credit card had been closed and sold to a third party. A default was later recorded on Mr Ds 
credit file. 
Mr D complained and Marbles sent him a final response. Marbles didnt agree it had acted 
unfairly by closing Mr Ds credit card or that it harassed him for payment. An investigator at 
this service looked at Mr Ds complaint but thought Marbles had dealt with it fairly so didnt 
ask it to do anything else. 
Mr D asked to appeal and said his payment was two days late. Mr D also said Marbles had 
taken months to respond to his complaint and that hes concerned about the default now 
recorded on his credit file. As Mr D asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D feels Marbles decision to close his credit card, sell the account to a third 
party and record a default on his credit file is unfair on the basis that his payment of £700 
was received two days later than requested. But, I dont think that gives a complete picture. 
As set out above, Mr Ds account was subject to a payment arrangement going back to 
December 2020. Mr D agreed to pay £45 a month. But the payments due in February and 
March 2021 werent made. Im satisfied there was a history of arrears on Mr Ds account. In 
addition to the missed payments due under the payment arrangement, there were earlier 
arrears. I note that Mr Ds December 2020 statement gives an arrears figure of £492.45 
which was prior to the payment arrangement. 
So whilst I agree Mr Ds £700 was received only two days beyond the deadline Marbles set, 
Im satisfied it was late. And Im satisfied that the arrears position of Mr Ds account meant it 
was fair for Marbles to set a deadline and stick to it. I havent been persuaded that Marbles 
acted unfairly when it took the decision to close Mr Ds credit card after a payment wasnt 
received within seven days of its letter dated 30 March 2021. 
As I think Marbles acted fairly by closing Mr Ds credit card, Im satisfied it has reasonably 
recorded a default on his credit file. Thats a step Marbles was able to take in line with its 
agreement with Mr D and the regulations. Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I havent found 
grounds to tell Marbles to remove the default from Mr Ds credit file. 
In the same way, Marbles terms and conditions allowed it to sell Mr Ds account to a third 
party. I havent found that Marbles acted unfairly when it sold Mr Ds credit card debt shortly 
after it was closed. 
Mr D has also complained that Marbles harassed him for payment by calling him several 
times each day. Marbles accepts it tried to get in touch with Mr D on various occasions each 
day using the numbers it holds for him. Marbles says its intention was to check the missed 
payment and get an update from Mr D. 
I appreciate Mr D found the level of contact distressing. But I think the number of calls 
reflects the account status. Had Marbles been able to speak with Mr D and get an update Im 
satisfied it wouldve discussed a way forward. But as no contact was made, I think it was 
reasonable for Marbles to continue its attempts to speak with Mr D. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr D but as Im satisfied Marbles dealt with his complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman