DRN-1745929
The complaint
Mr K complains about poor service from Lloyds Bank PLC with whom he holds a credit card 
account. He wants compensation.
What happened
Mr K tells us that he holds a Lloyds credit card and his wife is an additional card holder. He 
explains that his wife has managed the household budget for many years although his 
income is the principal source of family finances. Mr K complains that when his wife wants to 
access the account to make checks and payments it's necessary for him to be present. He 
says Lloyds won't allow his wife access to the account unless he first gives express consent 
each time. He feels this amounts to discrimination and that he and his wife are not treated 
equally as card holders on the account. He also considers that he's been subject of over 
zealous scrutiny of his account after he discovered fraudulent transactions. And he 
complains that Lloyds won't give him details of how or where his card was compromised. Mr 
K tells us that he's been treated much better by another bank with whom he holds an 
account and which has allowed his wife to make payments without the need for his 
presence.
Lloyds told us that its policy had changed in early 2019 and it now required payments from 
debit cards to be in the same name as the account holder. It said it wasn't possible for a 
credit card to be held in joint names as it's a sole account. But that Mr K could (and had) 
allowed his wife to be an additional card holder. 
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. He confirmed that it 
wasn't possible to hold joint credit card accounts. So Mr K remained the sole account holder. 
He said it was a matter for Lloyds to decide what the requirements for any security check 
should be when Mrs K sought to access the account. And he was unable to ask Lloyds to 
change its policy in requiring debit card payments to be made from an account in the same 
name as the credit card account holder.
Mr K wasn't satisfied with this outcome. As it's not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman's been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr K feels strongly about this matter. I understand his frustration at what he 
views as unnecessary intransigence on the part of Lloyds in a number of areas. 
In summary, Mr K's complaint concerns the difficulties he's faced in having his wife access 
his account to check entries and make payments. And he's also concerned that Lloyds 
hasn't informed him about the means by which his card was compromised or where this took 
place. 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
In his view our investigator briefly explained that the role of this service wasn't to instruct a 
business to change its procedure and / or policies. But to determine if it had acted fairly in 
addressing the complaint which Mr K had made. That was the correct approach.
I can see why Mr K might view his wife as a "joint" or "equal" account holder. But in the UK, 
credit card accounts (unlike for example a deposit account) aren't able to be held in joint 
names as opposed to having a second card holder. Although the difference might seem 
marginal, it's an important distinction. It means that only the account holder is responsible for 
the balance and maintenance of the account. And any person seeking to access the account 
would need permission of the account holder in just the same way as if they were seeking to 
access a sole name account without a second card holder.
Lloyds is entitled to put in place such policies as it chooses in order to determine what 
information is required to allow a third party to access an account. If that means requiring the 
account holder to authorise each such request that is a matter for Lloyds. And whilst I 
empathise with what Mr K seeks to achieve it's not an area in which I can require Lloyds to 
change its procedures. That another business chooses not to adopt the same requirements 
is a matter for that business. Mr K has mentioned the possibility of taking his custom 
elsewhere. And whilst it seems he's had a lengthy business relationship with Lloyds that is a 
choice which Mr K is entitled to make. I'd only say that all banks will have security checks 
and the criteria are likely to change frequently in order to continually improve procedures. So 
whilst one business may not make a specific requirement at the present time that's no 
guarantee it won't do so in the future.
Although I acknowledge some inconvenience, I'm not finding that Lloyds has done anything 
wrong in requiring Mr K to authorise each occasion his wife seeks to access the account. 
Similarly, if it wishes to restrict repayments being made from other cards to those of the 
account holder that's a legitimate security policy.
Nor has Lloyds done anything wrong in not disclosing details of how or where the card was 
compromised. Firstly, I'm not aware that Lloyds even has this information. It may accept that 
certain transactions are fraudulent. But that in itself wouldn't necessarily identify by whom or 
where the account had been compromised. And a business isn't going to disclose such 
details if it may jeopardise its own security processes. It would also be reasonable for Lloyds 
to place enhanced checks (I'm not finding it has in this case) on any account that had been 
fraudulently accessed.I'm unable to say what effect any fraudulent transactions may have had on Mr K's credit 
record. It's reasonable to suppose that any fraudulent activity might initially result in 
inaccurate balance figures. But once the transactions had been removed this should 
automatically correct. In the absence of a specific allegation that any entries may be unfair or 
incorrect it hasn't been necessary for me to seek access to Mr K's credit file as it doesn't 
directly affect my decision. It remains open to Mr K to obtain a copy of his credit record from 
any of the credit reference agencies. And if he feels any entries on his credit file are unfair or 
incorrect, he can ask the relevant business which had any such items recorded to remove 
them. Or he can seek to add a notice of correction.
I'm also unable to answer Mr K's question about an insurance policy matter when an event 
which might have given rise to a claim hasn't actually occurred.
I'm aware Mr K will be disappointed at my decision and the reasons for it. But it wouldn't be 
fair and reasonable of me to find that Lloyds hadn't dealt with this complaint fairly. Even 
though it hasn't met Mr K's requests for either information about the fraudulent transactions 
or a change in its procedure in relation to his account. 
In summary, I find that Lloyds hasn't done anything wrong in its handling of this matter. 
Accordingly, I'm not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman