DRN-3776036
The complaint
Mr K complains that Inchcape Retail Limited trading as Inchcape Mercedes mis-sold him 
GardX protect when he acquired a new car via a credit agreement.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr K attended a dealership enquiring about a new car. Mr K says he was 
told that the dealership had the particular car Mr K was interested in on order but that he 
wouldnt be able to add or remove anything from the order form. After a test drive, Mr K 
agreed to purchase a car and an order form was completed.
Mr K says that he had to wait to speak with the salesperson and their conversation was very 
short. He said he was provided with very little information other than he wasnt able to add or 
remove anything to the car as it had already been ordered. Mr K says he was told everything 
on the order form came as standard. He says he didnt ask for any additional options to be 
added. 
Inchcape says that its sales procedure is stringently followed and includes a video being 
played about the various additional options that can be included. Inchcape says that Mr K 
would have been given information about all of the various additional optional extras which 
included GardX and that he would have chosen the products he wished to add.
The order form provided to Mr K sets out on page one the cost of the car and that it was to 
be supplied with a factory fitted option costing £495.83 and a retailer option costing £624.17. 
On page two of the form it sets out that the factory fitted option was metallic paint and 
leather pack and the cost with tax amounted to £595 and that the retailer option was GardX 
costing a total with tax of £749. 
At term 3 of the terms and conditions included with the order form it states If you wish to 
make a change to the vehicle that you have ordered prior to delivery, please contact us so 
we can let you know if it is possible.. Mr K was also provided with an Initial Status 
Disclosure Document and provided with details of optional insurance products that could be 
considered. Mr K signed the form indicating he understood the terms and conditions.
Mr K says that he called the dealership after ordering the car and enquired about GAP 
insurance and the other insurance product that hed been given details about. He says he 
was told GAP insurance wasnt available. 
Two days before the car was delivered in December 2021, Mr K was provided with another 
copy of the order form which was identical in detail save the price of the car he was part-
exchanging. Mr K took delivery of the new car.
Mr K sent an email to the salesperson shortly after taking the car querying the adding of the 
GardX. He said he had been made aware that this was an optional product and so had 
queried why it had been added when he hadnt asked for it. 
As a gesture of goodwill, the salesperson provided Mr K with two free services which they 
said would equate in value to the cost of the GardX. Mr K accepted this offer on the proviso 
he would keep the car long enough to be able to use this offer.
Mr K decided to sell the car. He contacted Inchcape and requested that he was reimbursed 
the cost of the GardX which amounted in total to £749 as he no longer had the car and so 
wouldnt be able to take advantage of the free services.
Inchcape investigated Mr Ks complaint. It said that by this time the salesperson had left and 
so it wasnt able to obtain their version of events surrounding the ordering of the car. 
However, Inchcape said it was satisfied that its set sales process would have been followed 
and that Mr K was aware that GardX was an optional extra that he had chosen to have 
added. It didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr K was unhappy at Inchcapes response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She said she thought Mr Ks evidence 
had been credible and consistent and that he had been misled by the salesperson as to the 
inclusion of the GardX. She said it would be fair for Inchcape to reimburse the £749 cost.
Inchcape disagreed with the view of our investigator. It says its sales staff are all trained in 
the sales process and this is stringently followed. It says its staff have one to ones and are 
also audited to ensure the process was followed. Inchcape says it cant be said that Mr Ks 
version of events is correct in the absence of hearing from the salesperson. 
Inchcape says that as Mr K had received the information about the optional insurance 
products that it was likely he had also received information about GardX which was also 
optional. It says the offer of the two services free of charge didnt mean that the salesperson 
had accepted they had misled Mr K about the GardX as this had been offered as a gesture 
of goodwill.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. And where 
evidence is missing or contradictory then I must decide what I think is the most likely thing 
to have happened.
Here, Mr K says that he was told that everything that was recorded on the order form 
came as standard and that he couldnt add or remove anything because the car had 
already been ordered by the dealer. He had therefore thought that he had no choice but to 
take the car with GardX and cover that cost. He says he would have asked for it to be 
removed if hed known. Mr K also says that when he learnt he could have asked for that 
item to be taken off he raised it with the salesperson who agreed to match the cost by 
giving Mr S two free services. Mr K wasnt able to make use of this offer since he then 
sold the car.
Inchcape says the events described by Mr K, limited time with the salesperson, no 
presentation about the additional options (including the playing of a video) isnt in 
accordance with its set sales processes which it says are stringently followed. It says it 
isnt possible to assess the credibility of Mr Ks evidence as to what happened in the 
absence of being able to speak with the salesperson.While I appreciate there is a set sales process followed by Inchcapes salespeople, Im 
afraid I disagree that its guaranteed this process is followed each and every time with a 
customer. I think its reasonable to say there would be times when time is limited for 
discussions or a salesperson shortens the information provided. Mr K has been clear and 
consistent about what he says happened. And although I appreciate Mr K was given 
information about the optional insurance products, I havent seen he was also given 
information about GardX. 
On the order form the GardX shows as a retailer option and I think that supports why Mr 
K thought he couldnt query it at the time. Hed been told by the salesperson that the car 
had already been ordered by the dealer which gave the impression it wasnt being 
ordered exclusively for him. And Ive seen that under the terms and conditions of the order 
form Mr K could have asked for changes to be made before the car was delivered but 
didnt make this request. So, had he changed his mind about wanting GardX, he would 
have had ample time to do so before the car arrived since he ordered it in September, and 
it was delivered at the start of December. I think this supports Mr K believing that he 
couldnt seek any changes to the order.
I appreciate the offer of two services was a gesture of goodwill, but I think its reasonable 
to take this into account. Im unclear why this was offered if the salesperson was satisfied 
Mr K had chosen to have GardX included as I dont think there would have been a 
rationale for making such a gesture. I think its reasonable to infer from this offer that there 
had been an error in respect of the GardX being added to the car.
So, although I havent heard from the salesperson, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
say in these circumstances that Ive insufficient information on which to reach a decision 
about what I think is the most likely to thing to have happened. I think Mr K has been 
consistent in what he says occurred when he ordered the car and I dont think he was told 
the GardX was an optional extra he didnt need to take. I think its more likely than not he 
was told that he wasnt able to make changes to the order form for the car because it had 
already been ordered by the dealer with those added extras. I think he was misled about 
the GardX.
Mr K was offered two services by the salesperson which he was happy with on the 
proviso that he would use them. As he then decided to sell the car, he hasnt been able to 
take advantage of this offer. I think its therefore fair for him to be reimbursed the cost of 
the GardX in place of that offer. 
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Inchcape to reimburse Mr K £749 being the cost of the GardX that was added to 
the car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Im asking Inchcape Retail 
Limited trading as Inchcape Mercedes to reimburse Mr K £749 being the cost of the 
GardX.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023. 
 Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman