DRN-2443333
The complaint
  Mr N complains that Equifax hasnt recorded correct information on his credit file. He also 
says it required unnecessary personal information from him. He wants £300 compensation.
What happened
 Mr N told us that when he tried to apply to Equifax for an online credit report in December 
2019, he was asked to provide additional personal information which he thought was 
unnecessary. He also complains that when hed earlier changed address this wasnt 
immediately reflected on all his accounts. Nor was his electoral roll registration kept up to 
date. Hes also concerned that Equifax wasnt able to change his address with an 
information service provider, a business Ill call C, which reports what information it 
(Equifax) is recording.
Equifax told us that Mr Ns application on 24 December 2019 hadnt been processed as its 
system didnt identify it had sufficient information. Hence the request for additional items. But 
it said that it had later traced a previous application and was able to update his address 
without the extra information. It accepted that errors had been made and that due to a data 
mismatch not all of Mr Ns accounts had been updated to his new address. It said it had 
taken steps to rectify this. And that it has offered Mr N £100 by way of compensation.
Our investigator thought that Equifax offer of £100 compensation was in line with the awards 
we would typically make in similar circumstances. So he didnt think it need do anything else.
Mr N didnt agree with this outcome. He felt that the amount of time he spent and the stress 
he experienced warranted a higher amount than that offered. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I understand that Mr N would be naturally keen to ensure that his personal credit file was 
maintained and recorded accurate and up to date information. And that he wasnt asked to 
provide unnecessary personal data. Also, that any information that he did provide was 
handled securely.
Mr N will be aware that I recently issued a decision on a complaint he made against a 
different business, which I referred to earlier as C. That complaint involved some overlap of 
the issues to which this complaint relates. I explained in my earlier decision  and I confirm it 
here  that decisions must deal separately with the actions of individual businesses. And so 
even where complaint issues overlap separate decisions are required.
In order to fully explain this decision relating to Equifax, it may help to briefly summarise the 
relationship between the different businesses which are involved in the process which has 
led to Mr Ns complaint.
Equifax is a credit reference agency (CRA). Financial businesses are able to report details of 
customer accounts to Equifax and / or other CRAs. Such information is then frequently used 
by prospective lenders to assess the creditworthiness of an applicant for a loan. Im aware 
that Mr N has made a complaint against at least one financial business other than C about 
the way it reported his information to Equifax.
In addition, CRAs obtain information from publicly available sources such as electoral 
registers and the register of County Court Judgments. Such information is periodically 
updated by the compilers of those registers. But they dont have any direct role in 
determining when Equifax updates its records to reflect any changes. 
CRAs record the information provided by financial businesses but arent able to alter it 
without the permission of the relevant business. And there is an inevitable delay between a 
business reporting new information and CRAs processing that information and reflecting 
that change.
In Mr Ns case he changed address in August 2019. And he states that he advised those 
businesses with which he had an account. That should have meant a fairly straightforward 
administrative process was followed to update his credit file. But Equifax has accepted that 
due to a mis-match of data not all of Mr Ns accounts were immediately updated to display 
his correct address.
When Mr N tried to obtain an up to date online credit report, he was asked for additional 
personal information. Some of which he uploaded prior to finding out that Equifax had 
identified an earlier account and didnt require this information.
This service is not the industry regulator for data handling issues. Equifax has stated that it 
stored the information securely and has subsequently deleted that which it was not required 
to retain. Thats what I would expect. But if Mr N has doubts about this, then he would need 
to direct them to the Information Commissioners Office which deals with such matters.
It wouldnt be unreasonable for Equifax to seek additional information if it felt it hadnt 
sufficient to verify Mr Ns details. But the error here was that the call handler either failed or 
wasnt able to identify from Equifax systems that Mr N already had an account. So no other 
information shouldve been needed or requested.
Equifax explained that it wasnt able to itself change Mr Ns address with C. Whilst this is 
frustrating, I dont think Equifax did anything else wrong  other than that which caused the 
delay in it updating its own systems. C is an information service provider  so it reports what 
it sees on Equifax records. Hence, if Equifax updating of Mr Ns address is delayed that will 
have a knock-on effect with what C reports. 
Similarly, if C holds a different address for Mr N to that held by Equifax - and C seeks to 
obtain information from Equifax using the address it (C) holds - that would also probably 
cause accounts not to be identified correctly.
Ive seen a credit report from April 2020 and that shows Mr Ns electoral roll registration 
relating to his new address. This seems to have been updated from January 2020 and 
hopefully Mr N shouldnt experience further inconvenience over this.
In summary, I recognise that Mr N has experienced some unnecessary inconvenience. And 
Ive considered the offer of redress made by Equifax. Overall, I think it represents a fair and 
reasonable resolution of the complaint. I take into account that Ive not seen anything to 
show that Mr N has incurred any specific financial loss directly due to any error by Equifax.I must also acknowledge that complaint handling is not itself a regulated activity. So I cant 
make any separate award for the way in which a complaint is handled in addition to that 
which relates to the subject matter of the complaint about the regulated activity.
Im aware that Mr N spent some time on this matter, but I think that anyone seeking to 
progress such a complaint would recognise that it would involve some commitment of this 
nature. We dont tend to make awards for specific amounts of time and would not make that 
at a professional rate.
Putting things right
  Equifax should pay £100 to Mr N in accordance with its earlier offer.
My final decision
 Equifax Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Equifax Limited should pay £100 to Mr N. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman