DRN-2186597
The complaint
Mr O complains that the loans he had from Oakam Ltd were unaffordable and the charges 
were excessive.
What happened
Mr O had three instalment loans from Oakam between July 2017 and December 2019 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 17 Jul 2017 £300 6m £131.55 19 Jan 2018 6 Jan 2018
2 4 Nov 2019 £290 6m £79.22 1 May 2020 24 Dec 2019
3 24 Dec 2019 £858.24 12m £192.84 18 Dec 2020 £1,344.96 bal
Mr O says he had other loans when he applied for the Oakam loan and that they would have 
been showing on his credit file. He adds that if Oakam had done better checks it would have 
realised he couldnt afford the loan repayments and it meant he had difficulty paying other 
priority bills.
Oakam says the interest and fees charged on all the loans were in line with the loan 
contracts which Mr O had signed and that no additional late fees or charges were applied. It 
says it validated the information it received about Mr Os income and expenditure at the time 
of loan 1 and his credit file did not indicate he was over-committed or in financial distress. 
However, it found that loans 2 and 3 were completed outside of [its] accepted terms and it 
offered to waive all the interest applied to those loans and to remove them from his credit 
file.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said there was 
nothing in the available information that indicated the repayments on loan 1 were 
unsustainable. She acknowledged Oakam had already offered to uphold Mr Os complaint 
about loans 2 and 3 and she was satisfied the redress was in line with this services 
approach. She didnt consider it needed to do anything further.
Mr O responded to say, in summary, that as Oakam had admitted it shouldnt have approved 
the loans, it should clear the outstanding balance on loans 2 and 3 as well as refunding the 
interest and fees. He said he could only afford to pay £1 per month towards any outstanding 
balance as he was currently out of work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Oakam was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Loan 1When Mr O applied for this loan, Oakam asked him for information about his income and 
expenditure and carried out a credit check. Ive seen the results of the credit check and it 
showed Mr O had four active accounts with outstanding credit of £845. I cant see there was 
anything that should have prompted Oakam to carry out further checks.
As this was Mr Os first loan with Oakam and its assessment showed the repayments were 
affordable to him, Im satisfied that its checks were proportionate and that it didnt do 
anything wrong by approving loan 1.
Loans 2 and 3
Oakam has upheld Mr Os complaint about these loans, but I acknowledge Mr O believes it 
should write-off the outstanding balance as a result. I have considered the redress Oakam 
has submitted and Im satisfied that its in line with this services approach.
In summary, Oakam has agreed to:
Waive any interest and charges on the loans;
Apply any payments to the amount borrowed;
Remove the loans from Mr Os credit file.
It has said:
Mr O borrowed a total of £898.69 for loans 2 and 3
He made payments of £169.21 towards the loans;
The outstanding balance is now £729.48.
This means that Mr Os outstanding balance has reduced from £1,344.96 to £729.48  a 
difference of £615.48 which equates to the interest waived by Oakam as a result of 
upholding his complaint.
I accept Mr O wants the entire balance written off, but I cant conclude its reasonable for him 
to have had the benefit of the money without needing to repay it.
Nevertheless, I would encourage Mr O to discuss an affordable repayment plan for the 
balance with Oakam.
My final decision
My decision is that Oakam Ltd should settle Mr Os complaint about loans 2 and 3 as it has 
offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman