DRN-2342761
The complaint
Mr G complains about the customer service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC when 
he visited a branch.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr G visited a Barclays branch to deposit a cheque. He says the security 
guard at the branch was rude and abusive towards him. He says he felt threatened and 
embarrassed. Mr G complained to Barclays about the experience. 
The branch manager acknowledged Mr G had a poor experience in branch and apologised 
on behalf of himself and the security guard. Mr G remained dissatisfied. He wanted Barclays 
to terminate its contract with the security firm and pay him compensation for the trouble 
caused. He brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
The investigator concluded, in summary, that while the experience Mr G received in the 
branch must have been upsetting, she felt Barclays apology was enough. Mr G disagreed, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has explained that due to the COVID19 pandemic it took steps to ensure the safety 
of its customers and staff. And it appointed security guards to help enforce social distancing 
and other government guidelines. This is a step that many businesses have taken so I dont 
think it was wrong for Barclays to do the same. Or for the security guard to address 
customers to ensure they were following the correct queuing system.    
Mr G says the experience he encountered in the branch was a distressing one. And I 
understand Mr Gs strength of feeling on this matter. However, considering the role of the 
security guard, I think it was reasonable for him to ask Mr G about his visit. From what Mr G 
has described, and from the way hes interacted with our service, Im not persuaded he 
made things easy for the security guard, although I accept the security guards attitude and 
comments may have been unprofessional. 
Barclays has said it has provided feedback to the security guard involved which, in the 
circumstances, I consider appropriate. Im pleased to hear Mr G was able complete his 
banking on the day. The interaction with the security guard clearly had an impact on Mr G. 
But dealing with other people isnt always smooth sailing. Im not persuaded compensation is 
an appropriate remedy here. In my view an apology and an assurance about feedback being 
given to the security guard was a fair and reasonable response to this complaint.
Mr G would like me to direct Barclays to terminate its contract with the security firm and to 
change its complaint handling procedures. Im afraid I cant help him with either of these as 
theyre beyond my remit. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt need to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021. 
James Langford
Ombudsman