DRN-3507039
The complaint
Miss D complains about interest that has been applied to her account and she also says 
Klarna Bank AB (publ) were wrong to report missed payments to her credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When Miss D spoke to Klarna in December 2021 they wrongly informed her that shed 
missed a payment in September of that year, and they didnt explain how interest accrued on 
her account.
I think theyve since put that right. 
The purchase Miss D made was a planned purchase and the terms explain:
If you take up a Planned Payment offer for a Purchase, the credit for that Purchase 
(Planned Payment Purchase) must be repaid in full by the equal monthly payments which 
will be shown to you before you choose the Planned Payment offer. The payments will 
include interest, which will be charged at a fixed rate displayed to you prior to choosing the 
offer,
So, I think interest was attracted at a fixed (promotional) interest rate, but the terms go on to 
explain:
if you do stop paying the Planned Payment Purchase payment, the Purchase will no longer 
be a Planned Payment Purchase and the Standard Rate will be charged on the Purchase 
starting on the day after the first payment date
So, when Klarna wrongly believed a payment was late they started to charge the standard 
rate of interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
When Miss D contacted Klarna about this they undid the error and they removed interest 
accrued between September and December 2021 which I think was the relevant period. 
They also confirmed that no missed payments had been reported to Miss Ds credit file. 
I think those actions were reasonable in the circumstances and I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to support Miss Ds suggestion that there was no interest being attracted.
Miss D has also complained about security concerns. Shes upset that Klarna havent 
removed her card from their website. I cant see that Klarna have been given an opportunity 
to respond to that complaint and until they do Im afraid we cant consider it. If Miss D wants 
to raise that complaint with the business she may subsequently be able to escalate it to this 
service if she remains dissatisfied with their response.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman