DRN-3351000
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) relates to 
incorrect information they received regarding the availability of a free conveyancing service 
for which they were ultimately deemed ineligible. That error they say led to increased legal 
fees being charged which they feel Halifax should pay. 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr and Mrs C made an application to Halifax for a new mortgage. They had 
previously discussed their requirements with a Halifax advisor and were told by her that they 
would be able to take advantage of a free conveyancing service. That information proved to 
be incorrect as the property they were wishing to mortgage had been a self-build property 
and that type of property was excluded from the free service scheme. 
Notification of their ineligibility came late into the process. Mr and Mrs C then instructed 
alternative solicitors which they say led to increased costs which they would not otherwise 
have had to pay had they been told at the outset that they were ineligible.
Halifax have accepted that their advisor gave incorrect information to Mr and Mrs C, and that 
this had given them a false expectation and so Halifax partially upheld their complaint. In 
recognition of that, Halifax paid Mr and Mrs C £500 by way of compensation. Halifax did not 
agree that it should pay Mr and Mrs Cs additional claim for the higher fees they had paid to 
their solicitors, because it felt they would have incurred those anyway.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with Halifaxs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there 
had been poor service, the amount of compensation Halifax had paid was enough to put 
things right. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The crux of this complaint centres on what Mr and Mrs C would have done had they 
received the correct information about the free conveyancing service at the right time, and 
also whether the conveyancing costs they incurred were higher than they would have been 
as a result of Halifaxs error.
Halifax accept it made an error in giving Mr and Mrs C the wrong information about the free 
conveyancing service. Had they received the correct information then Mr and Mrs C would 
have been required to pay for their conveyancing costs in any event, if of course they had 
kept their business with Halifax. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that if they had known earlier they could have approached a 
different lender and possibly obtained the free service with them. I accept that was certainly 
a possibility but Mr and Mrs C havent been able to provide any evidence that this was 
available and so I am unable to say whether or not that is something that would or would not 
have happened. I cannot speculate on what might have happened, and without evidence of 
there being such a product they could have obtained, it would be unfair of me to guess.  
Mr and Mrs C paid their solicitor £1,500 plus vat for the conveyancing service and say this is 
higher than it would have been if they had known earlier that they had to instruct a solicitor 
themselves. They argue that the fees were higher due to the reduced time scales involved 
and the fact that they were operating within stamp duty change timescales. Whilst that is 
correct, they do not have any evidence to show by how much the fee increased because of 
any delay. Again, I cannot speculate as to how much higher the fee might be. 
I dont think therefore that it would be reasonable to direct Halifax to pay Mr and Mrs C 
compensation to reflect any increased legal costs, because I dont think they are proven. 
Halifax has however accepted that it didnt get things right otherwise, and because of that it 
compensated Mr and Mrs C with £500. Ive given this some further thought as to whether it 
is a fair and reasonable level of compensation for their error in service, and I think it is. I 
accept that in having received notification that they could not take advantage of the free 
service very late, that they were put to time and trouble sourcing new solicitors. But I think 
the sum of £500 adequately reflects that upset and inconvenience. 
So, although Mr and Mrs C will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst Halifax 
have indeed made errors, I cant say Halifax has subsequently acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already paid Mr and Mrs C £500 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require 
it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman