DRN-4110027
The complaint
Ms G complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with her mortgage following 
payment breaks in 2022. Ms G says HSBCs term extension team didnt call her and HSBC 
didnt consider her request for a term extension fairly. She says it took a direct debit payment 
after shed asked it not to. Ms G asks that HSBCs term extension team call her to arrange a 
term extension.
What happened
Ms G took six months of payment breaks from May 2022 to October 2022. When this ended 
she asked HSBC to extend the mortgage term by six months, which says is the only viable 
option to enable her to pay back the missed payments. Ms G says she didnt receive a 
promised call from HSBCs term extension team. And it didnt allow her to speak to a 
manager about why this was.
Our investigator said while HSBC decided in mid-November 2022 that a term extension 
wasnt possible, it didnt call Ms G to tell her this. Ms G was told the request was declined 
when she called HSBC in late November 2022. Our investigator said while HSBC should 
have called Ms G sooner, the outcome wouldnt have been different. Our investigator said 
HSBC didnt have to agree to Ms Gs requests to speak to a manager or extend the 
mortgage term.
Our investigator said HSBC acted fairly when it assessed Ms Gs income and expenditure 
and offered to put an arrangement in place for her to repay the arrears. She said HSBC 
apologised for an error with a direct debit payment. 
Ms G didnt agree. In summary, she said HSBCs term extension team was supposed to call 
her, to review her request fairly and impartially. She said this was what her complaint was 
about. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G took payment breaks for six months, from May to October 2022. Ive seen copies of 
letters sent by HSBC to Ms G during the payment breaks. These say that the arrears will 
have to be repaid and HSBC will be in touch to discuss her options. After the payment 
breaks Ms G had mortgage arrears of about £10,000. 
I must be clear that I am only looking into the complaint that was raised with HSBC and 
brought to us in March 2023. Im not looking into any other concerns Ms G might have about 
more recent events. I should also explain that where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
The direct debit payment
HSBC wrote to Ms G in mid-November 2022 saying a new direct debit instruction would start 
on 1 December 2022. Ms G called in late November 2022 and asked for the direct debit to 
be suspended. HSBC says the call handler shouldnt have agreed to do this as the payment 
was already in process. 
HSBC apologised and confirmed this had no impact on Ms Gs credit file. Ms G called and 
made the payment in mid-December 2022. 
Ms G says that HSBCs letter of 17 November 2022 is evidence of HSBC failing to listen to 
her instructions on 25 November 2022. I dont think thats fair given the letter was sent 
before 25 November 2022. HSBSs notes say that Ms G had asked earlier in November 
2022 for her direct debit to be reactivated but didnt want any changes to her ongoing 
payments.
The request for a term extension
Ms G had arrears of about £10,000 which needed to be repaid. Generally, arrears should be 
paid off over the shortest affordable period, provided this is within the mortgage term. This 
gets the mortgage back on track as quickly as possible and means the borrower pays less 
interest on the arrears balance.
While a term extension can reduce the contractual monthly payment, the overall amount of 
interest paid by the borrower would be higher. This is because the debt is repaid over a 
longer period. Even if HSBC had agreed to this, Ms G would still have needed to repay the 
arrears in addition to her contractual monthly payment. 
What option is most appropriate for a customer to repay arrears depends on the customers 
circumstances. HSBC asked Ms G for information about her circumstances so that it could 
consider what options were available and appropriate for her. 
Ms G provided income and expenditure details to HSBC on 10 November 2022. She 
requested a term extension of six months.
HSBC declined Ms Gs request for a term extension. This was because the information it 
had been given by Ms G suggested shed be able to maintain contractual monthly payments 
and additional payments to clear the arrears well within the remaining term. It asked Ms G to 
contact it to arrange an appropriate and affordable repayment plan or provide an update of 
her circumstances.  
I think this was fair. Based on the information it had at the time, HSBC offered an appropriate 
way for Ms G to repay her arrears. HSBC didnt have to agree to a term extension just 
because this was Ms Gs preferred option. 
The call back about the term extension
HSBC decided to decline Ms Gs request for a term extension on 12 November 2022. It 
should have called Ms G to tell her this and discuss other options.
Ms G called HSBC on 25 November 2022 and HSBC told her that her request for a term 
extension was declined. I dont think it would have made a difference if Ms G had been given 
this information a week or two sooner.
When she was told her request for a term extension was declined, Ms G asked that a manager call her. HSBC says a manager tried to call Ms G but she didnt take the calls. 
Ms G raised a complaint the same day by email. She wanted a manager from the collections 
team to call her to clarify why she hadnt been called by the term extension team to confirm 
the term extension of her mortgage. 
While HSBC should have called Ms G to tell her that it wouldnt offer a term extension, this 
didnt need to be a member of the term extension team. HSBC had asked Ms G for the 
information it needed to consider what options were appropriate on 10 November 2022. I 
cant see there would have been any benefit in a member of the term extension team calling 
Ms G when HSBC had declined her request for a term extension. 
Once HSBC had decided that it wouldnt offer a term extension, it was more appropriate that 
Ms G spoke to someone with authority to arrange a repayment plan. HSBC says it tried to 
call Ms G on 25 November 2022, as shed requested. HSBC asked Ms G about setting up 
an arrangement during calls in December 2022. And HSBC wrote to Ms G saying she 
needed to get in contact to discuss a repayment plan. So I think HSBC gave Ms G correct 
information about the steps she needed to take regarding her arrears.
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require HSBC to agree to extend 
the term of Ms Gs mortgage or take further steps in relation to this complaint.
I understand that Ms G has missed further payments and HSBC has said it will start 
recovery action. If Ms G has financial difficulties, Id urge her to contact HSBC and provide 
the information it needs to consider what options might be available to support her. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman