DRN-3640122
The complaint
Mr S complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt provided a full refund of 
the premium he paid for a travel insurance policy.
For ease of reading, all reference to URV includes its agents.
What happened
On 23 January 2020, Mr S bought an annual multi trip travel insurance policy via a broker. 
This policy was underwritten by URV. This cover started on 24 January 2020 and ran until 
23 January 2021. The policy also provided cover for Mr Ss pre-existing medical condition for 
which he paid an additional premium of £16.52. In total, Mr S paid £194.46 for his insurance 
cover.
In April 2020, Mr S requested a refund of the premium he had paid as he was unable to 
travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. URV cancelled the policy and offered Mr S a partial 
refund of the premium in accordance with the policy terms  that amounted to £71.69.
Unhappy with the amount offered, Mr S complained to URV who offered to increase the 
refund to £133.47. As Mr S felt he should receive a full refund, he brought his complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator looked into complaint. She set out set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started 
to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started in January 
2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time  up until it was cancelled.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19 
and thought that the increased offer made by URV in its letter dated March 2021 was fair 
and reasonable. However, she noted the calculations didnt include any refund of the 
additional premium paid to cover Mr Ss medical condition which she found should be 
considered. URV agreed to refund this additional premium in full.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators opinion. So, the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr S. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service, its remit and my role in it.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out his cancellation rights. When the policy is 
cancelled outside of the 14 days cooling off period, it says:
Annual Multi-Trip policies - Provided you have not made a claim on the policy 
(irrespective of whether your claim was successful or not) and you confirm in writing 
that there is no claim pending, should you choose to cancel and understand that all 
benefits of the policy will be cancelled, we will refund 5% of the total premium paid, 
for each full calendar month remaining on the policy from the date of cancellation. If 
you are intending to, or have claimed (irrespective of whether your claim was 
successful or not) we will not consider refunding any proportion of your premium.
I dont uphold this complaint. In the circumstances of this case, I think URVs offer to refund 
to Mr S £149.99 of the premium he paid for the policy is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a full refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after payment of the premium, and subject to certain conditions, it will 
refund 5% of the total premium paid, for each full calendar month remaining on the 
policy from the date of cancellation. URV has now offered more than this. As a 
gesture of goodwill, its offered to refund Mr S one twelfth of the premium paid for 
each month left on the policy after the date of cancellation in April 2020 and refund in 
full the additional amount paid for his pre-existing medical condition. By doing so, 
URV has gone beyond what its required to give under the contract of insurance.
Ive taken into account whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. Mr S was covered under the policy from January 2020 to April 2020, when 
the policy was cancelled, for a number of listed events insured under the policy for 
any number of trips. Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an 
insurer has no way of knowing how many trips Mr S took or had booked (unless he 
had made a claim under the policy). There may have been many trips or, as Mr S 
says is the case here, there may have been none. However, URV was covering the 
risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force  and the price he paid for the 
policy reflected this. But once the policy was cancelled by Mr S in April 2020 (due to 
the global impact of the Covid-19 pandemic), URV didnt bear any risk under the 
policy and no claims had been made or accepted by URV.
Mr S says he received an email on 7 April 2020 which said he was able to cancel his 
policy and receive a full refund. URV says it didnt send an email on this date. Ive 
noted an email was sent to Mr S on 12 April 2020 which explained the cover 
available under the policy relating to the Covid-19 outbreak. This email stated he was 
covered for cancellation, but this refers to the cancellation of a trip under the policy, 
not the cancellation of the policy itself. So, it is possible there has been some 
confusion. But in any event, Im satisfied that the refund offered by URV is in line with 
those given to other customers in this situation, so I dont think URV has treated Mr S 
unfairly. Im aware that Mr S believes URV shouldnt have sold policies in January 2020 as he 
says it would already have been aware of the situation regarding the Covid-19 
outbreak abroad and known that the policy couldnt be used. I appreciate his 
comments, but I disagree that URV would have known this at the time he bought his 
cover. Mr S purchased a worldwide multi trip policy and at the time of the sale there 
wasnt a global restriction on travel  it wasnt until 11 March that The World Health 
Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 as a pandemic. And it was only on 17 March 
2020, that the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad due to the pandemic. So, this point doesnt alter my outcome.
If he hasnt already done so, if Mr S wishes to take up URVs offer which brings his refund to 
a total amount of £149.99, he should contact URV directly.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman