DRN-2002960
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
He says he was sent a link to upgrade his bank account, so he clicked the link to upgrade 
the account, but was not given any information about the account he was agreeing to.
Mr M has also complained that he tried to downgrade his account but was unable to do so.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Ms complaint and she didnt think that the URCA had 
been mis-sold. But she did think that what Halifax had offered Mr M to put matters right 
regarding his difficulties in downgrading his account was reasonable in the circumstances. 
So she didnt recommend any further redress should be paid.
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website and Ive used this to help me decide this complaint.
In his complaint form, Mr M says that he was sent a link to upgrade his account, so says he 
clicked the link and his account was changed without being provided with any information 
about what changes were being made to his account. Whereas Halifax says that its online 
sales process presents the consumer with account terms and conditions and information 
about the account benefits, before the consumer can select to upgrade their account to an 
URCA.
Having considered what Mr M and Halifax has said and provided, I think its more likely that 
Mr M was provided with the standard information about the URCA cost and benefits, and he 
chose to upgrade his account based on that information. I say this particularly because, 
when Mr M first complained to Halifax through a third party, he originally said that the 
account had been sold to him over the phone i.e. that hed spoken to someone at Halifax, 
when it was actually upgraded online. Therefore it appears that Mr Ms recollections of the 
upgrade are perhaps not that strong. 
I can also see from Halifaxs records that Mr M unsuccessfully applied for a £1,000 overdraft 
on the same day that he upgraded his account. So having an agreed overdraft in place was 
clearly important to Mr M. And one of the key features of the account was that it provided a 
fee-free overdraft facility of up to £300, subject to application. 
So based on everything I have seen, I think its more likely that Mr M did see information 
about the URCA costs and features, and the reason why he chose to upgrade his account 
was because he was attracted to the benefit(s) it provided. And whilst I cant be sure exactly 
what information Mr M did see, at the same time Ive not seen anything about his 
circumstances that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he 
been given even more information about the account.
Mr M says he had no need for the account benefits. But as outlined above, I think he was in 
all likelihood presented with some information about the account features. And he upgraded 
the account himself online, knowing he didnt have to. So it was up to Mr M, not Halifax, to 
decide whether the URCA was worth having or not. 
I appreciate that Mr M may now think, with the benefit of hindsight, that the URCA has been 
poor value for money, as he says he hasnt used any of the benefits. But that in itself doesnt 
necessarily mean that it was mis-sold or that Halifax did something wrong when Mr M 
upgraded his account.
So having considered everything that has been provided, Im not persuaded that the URCA 
was mis-sold by Halifax.
Finally, I understand that Mr M had difficulties downgrading his account to a fee-free 
account. Ive seen transcripts of conversations he had with Halifax and I can see that he did 
have difficulties downgrading his account. And I do appreciate that this wouldve been very 
frustrating for him, particularly given his circumstances at the time.
However, Halifax upheld this aspect of his complaint and refunded the account fees Mr M 
was charged from April 2020 i.e. when he first tried to downgrade his account. And Halifax 
also paid him £50 for the distress caused.
Having considered both what Mr M has said about his difficulties and what Halifax has done 
to put matters right, I think the redress Halifax paid Mr M was reasonable and inline with 
what our service would recommend had Halifax not already made its offer. Because of this I 
think it has done enough to put matters right and therefore dont require it to do anything 
further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think the Ultimate Reward Current Account was 
mis-sold. And I think Bank of Scotland PLC has done enough to put matters right in relation 
to the difficulties Mr M experienced when trying to downgrade his account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman