DRN-2274960
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly concluded that he was at fault 
for a motor accident.
What happened
Mr J says that in May 2019 a third-party vehicle hit his vehicle. He says he didnt see the car 
coming. He feels the accident was caused by the third-party vehicle going too fast. Mr J has 
provided evidence such as detailed descriptions, videos, photographs and a forensic report 
of the accident scene to Aviva in support of his claim. He paid £300 for the report. The police 
initially investigated the incident after Mr J reported it to them. But in the end they didnt take 
any action against the third party.
Aviva deemed the incident to be Mr Js fault and agreed to pay the claim in full to the third 
party on that basis. Mr J made no claim for his own vehicle.
Mr J complained to Aviva about their decision to put the fault on him. But Aviva said that they 
didnt have enough evidence to find differently. And they thought their decision was in Mr Js 
best interests as the third partys solicitors were threatening legal action against him.
Mr J wasnt happy with Avivas response. So he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He felt Aviva had reasonably considered all the 
evidence before deciding to hold Mr J at fault, as it was entitled to do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of Mr Js strength of feeling regarding this matter. Id like to reassure Mr J that 
although Ive only summarised the background and arguments above, Ive read and 
considered everything provided. But I cant find any evidence that Aviva have treated him 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
Mr J is unhappy that Aviva has decided to hold him liable for the accident. As explained by 
our investigator, it isnt my role to determine who was liable for the accident at the heart of 
this complaint. What Im deciding is whether Aviva have dealt with the claim fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr Js policy sets out what Aviva can do in the event of a claim being made. In the 
GENERAL CONDITIONS THAT APPLY TO THE WHOLE POLICY section, under Our 
Rights it states:
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any 
claim.
Essentially this allows Aviva to decide, upon review of the evidence available, whether to 
settle or refuse a claim, pursue a third party, or to start litigation to settle a claim. Similar 
provisions are found in all motor policies Ive seen, so I dont find the term unusual or 
surprising. Under these terms, Aviva can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. That 
might mean that Aviva make a decision Mr J disagrees with, as has happened here. But the 
terms and conditions of the policy allow Aviva to make such a decision. 
This above is true even where legal cover has been purchased, as in this case. Although Mr 
J mightve thought that this cover allows him to refer any claim for a legal opinion, this isnt 
the case. Aviva still have the right to decide how any claim is settled.
I can still consider whether Aviva handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner in 
reaching their decision. Based on what Ive seen, I think they did.
I know Mr J feels strongly that he wasnt at fault for the accident. However, there were no 
independent witnesses to the incident. There was also no CCTV footage of the incident.
I note that Aviva waited for confirmation on whether the police were going to charge the 
driver of the other vehicle before they decided whether to dispute the claim or not. Mr J 
confirmed to Aviva in January 2020 that the police werent pursuing the other driver. It was at 
this point that Aviva advised Mr J that based on the information they had, they had no 
defence. And that theyd accept liability. I understand that the third party had by this point 
threatened litigation. 
I also note that initially, Aviva supported Mr Js view that the accident wasnt his fault. But 
having looked at the evidence provided, including Mr Js forensic report, they decided that 
the evidence was inconclusive. Mr J doesnt agree with Aviva on this point. But I havent 
seen conclusive evidence of who was at fault. Aviva's claims expert noted that Mr Js report 
wasnt suitable for use in court, so couldnt be presented in any court action defending the 
claim. Therefore further expert reports might be needed. This would increase the potential 
claims costs if the case were taken to court. 
Aviva stated in their final response letter of 28 January 2020, a court would judge based on 
the evidence that is available to them and here we have one word against another, with 
images taken after the third-party vehicle had been moved. Having looked at all the 
available evidence, Ive found no reason to disagree with this statement.
If Aviva didnt settle the claim in the way they did, the only way to resolve the dispute as to 
who was at fault for the accident wouldve been to take the matter to court. Aviva felt they 
had a poor chance of succeeding given the lack of evidence. I dont expect insurers to take 
disputes to court that are unlikely to succeed. This is their legal right according to the terms 
and conditions of the policy. So I think their decision not to take the matter to court, and 
potentially incur significant costs in doing so, was reasonable. 
While I can see that Mr J was unlucky to be involved in the accident in the first place, 
Ive found no evidence that Aviva havent taken reasonable steps to resolve the claim fairly. 
So I dont think they treated Mr J unfairly when they found him at fault for the accident.
So I cant ask Aviva to change their decision on who was at fault. And I cant ask them to pay 
for the report Mr J commissioned. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman