DRN-3035296
The complaint
Mr B complains that GRS Financial Consultants Limited wrongly stopped his pension 
transfer.   
What happened
GRS advised Mr B in connection with a defined benefit pension transfer in April 2020. Forms 
were sent to the scheme administrators, but because of market volatility the scheme trustees 
delayed the transfer. 
In the meantime the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a publication to financial 
businesses which said they shouldnt advise on defined benefit transfers unless they had an 
appropriate level of professional indemnity cover in place. 
The cover held by GRS meant it no longer had the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise on defined benefit transfers. It wrote to Mr B and the scheme administrators to say 
that it couldnt proceed with the transfer. 
Mr B considered GRS had misinterpreted the FCAs publication and had wrongly stopped 
the transfer. He made his own enquiries with the FCA and urged GRS to seek clarification of 
what the publication meant. Mr B lodged a formal complaint with GRS but it wasnt upheld at 
that stage. 
In August 2020 the FCA confirmed to GRS that the transfer could proceed. Mr Bs transfer 
value was recalculated and had increased in value. The transfer eventually completed in 
October 2020. 
Mr B remained unhappy with GRSs handling of the matter, and considered it should halve 
its fee. GRS didnt consider it had acted inappropriately so it wasnt willing to reduce the fee. 
But it offered Mr B £250 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr B didnt accept the offer and asked this 
service to investigate the complaint. 
Our investigator considered the offer from GRS was fair. She wasnt persuaded it was 
unreasonable for GRS to stop the transfer based on the FCA publication. The investigator 
accepted that Mr B couldve been disadvantaged if things had gone wrong while the transfer 
was delayed, but said she couldnt reach conclusions about hypothetical situations. Mr Bs 
transfer value had, in fact, increased during the period of the delay, so the investigator 
wasnt persuaded hed suffered a financial loss. 
The investigator also found that GRSs fee was for its advice, rather than completion of the 
transfer. As GRS had provided the advice the investigator didnt consider it had to refund 
any of the fee. 
The investigator acknowledged there wouldve been concern and worry for Mr B, but she 
considered the goodwill gesture offered by GRS was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said, in summary, that:
he didnt agree it was reasonable for GRS to stop the transfer without seeking 
clarification from the FCA about what its publication meant for transfers where advice 
had already been given. 
GRS only made enquiries with the FCA after it had dismissed his complaint in July 
2020, and wasnt transparent about the further enquiries it said it had made. 
the fee was agreed on the basis that the work outlined would be carried out. Mr B 
said hed had to put in considerable effort to get the matter resolved, and had 
suffered extensive stress and anxiety during the process. 
hed suffered financial loss because he wouldve been able to use his tax-fee lump 
sum to establish his share portfolio sooner.  
As agreement hadnt been reached, the matter was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision for the complaint on 21 July 2021. I said I was minded to uphold the 
complaint in part. Ive set out details of my provisional decision below:
GRS wrote to Mr B on 16 June 2020 to say that it no longer had regulatory 
permission to provide defined benefit transfer advice. It told Mr B it had stopped his 
transfer. 
Mr B responded on the same day and said: 
Could you please provide me with a copy of the instruction from the FCA that has led 
to your decision to withdraw from providing advice on transfers from DB schemes 
and specifically, how this change should be applied retrospectively to transfers that 
have already been approved by all parties [and] are merely awaiting the electronic 
transfer of funds. 
Mr B didnt receive a response and chased GRS on 30 June. He said: 
the activity of giving transfer advice concludes when the confirmation of advice 
has been providedand should not therefore be impacted by any subsequent 
change in your firms status with the FCA. Should we be contacting the FCA for 
clarification of this point. 
A couple of days later Mr B repeated his request for GRS to check that it hadnt 
misinterpreted the FCAs publication. He took the view that the FCA were looking to 
stop transfers where the provision of advice wasnt complete, rather than those 
where it had been completed. 
By 8 July Mr B had made his own enquiries with the FCA. In an email to GRS he 
said:
 May I ask if you have sought guidance on this question from the FCA. I contacted 
them but, as a member of the public, they were unable to give me an opinion. 
GRS wrote to the FCA for clarification on 9 July, and sent its final response to Mr Bs 
complaint on 21 July. 
Mr B chased GRS on 17 August to see whether it had received a response from the 
FCA. GRS contacted the FCA again on 19 August, and the FCA responded the same day. It explained that generally, an FCA request to stop giving advice refers to the 
provision of advice from that point on. So it said Mr Bs transfer could proceed 
because the relevant forms had already been sent to the transferring scheme. 
Having reviewed the FCAs original publication, I could see why GRS interpreted it 
the way that it did. But I also thought it wouldve been reasonable for GRS to see that 
Mr B had a valid point about whether the publication applied retrospectively to advice 
that had already been given. 
So I considered it wouldve been reasonable for GRS to make enquiries with the FCA 
sooner than it did, rather than simply cancelling the process. 
I could understand Mr Bs frustration that it took several prompts from him and his 
own enquiries (that he as an individual couldnt pursue with the FCA) before GRS 
took action. And it took further chasing from Mr B before GRS obtained clarification 
from the FCA. 
I was also mindful that while GRS delayed in seeking clarification from the FCA, Mr B 
had to appoint another adviser to provide the formal advice he would need to 
complete the transfer. Once the position was clarified the scheme trustees were 
willing to accept the original advice from GRS, so Mr Bs subsequent adviser wasnt 
needed. As far as I was aware Mr B didnt pay any fees to his second adviser. But I 
didnt doubt the inconvenience and stress to Mr B in seeking and appointing another 
adviser. 
Id also kept in mind that the trustees delayed Mr Bs original transfer request 
because of volatility in the markets caused by the global pandemic. Although I 
couldnt consider any complaint about the trustees actions, as Mr B had reached 
retirement age I accepted that the further delays caused by GRS would have added 
to his overall concerns about the transfer being completed. 
I balanced all of these points against the fact that when the transfer did eventually 
take place, the transfer value was higher than it wouldve been if it had completed on 
the date GRS stopped the transfer. On that basis I wasnt persuaded Mr B had 
suffered financial loss as a result of the delay. 
Id noted what Mr B had said about the shares he couldve invested in if hed had 
access to his tax-free cash sooner. But I couldnt say for certain that Mr B wouldve 
invested as hed said he would have done at that time, or whether such investment 
would in any case have offset the gain which was made on the whole transfer value. 
So I didnt consider it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask GRS to compensate 
him for any investment loss he considered hed suffered.
Mr B was seeking a refund of half the fees he paid to GRS. I could see why he might 
consider it unfair that GRS was paid in full when it took his own efforts to get 
clarification on the FCA publication, and acceptance of GRSs original advice by the 
scheme trustees. 
But GRS did provide the advice, which is a significant undertaking (and not without 
considerable risks to the advising firm if they make any mistakes in providing that 
advice) and I was satisfied it should be paid for that. On balance, I didnt think it 
would be fair or reasonable to ask it to refund half of the fee. 
But as Id already said, I thought it wouldve been reasonable for GRS to be more 
pro-active in seeking clarification from the FCA in light of the valid point Mr B was making. And I was also mindful of the distress and inconvenience this matter would 
have caused Mr B as he was approaching retirement. 
And so I thought GRS should pay a further £250 to Mr B in addition to the £250 it had 
offered. This made total compensation of £500. 
Mr B made a number of observations in response to my provisional findings. He said, in 
summary, that he considered GRSs service fell short of the standard that could reasonably 
be expected of a professional giving this type of advice. He mentioned again the time and 
effort hed had to put in to the matter. Mr B considered my findings shouldve been more 
critical of GRS.
GRS didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted everything Mr B has said in response to my provisional decision. As I said in that 
decision, I realise that it took Mr Bs own efforts and several prompts by him to get any 
meaningful response from the business to the point he was making. So I can appreciate why 
he might consider I should be more critical of the business. 
In my provisional findings I accepted that GRSs service was not as good as it should have 
been. But I had to balance this against the fact that Mr B received an increased transfer 
value when it eventually took place. 
Keeping in mind our fair and reasonable approach to resolving complaints and when I take 
account of the circumstances overall, despite what Mr B has said Im not minded to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.   
Putting things right
GRS should pay £250 to Mr B in addition to the £250 it has already offered. This makes total 
compensation of £500. 
My final decision
My decision is that GRS Financial Consultants Limited should pay total compensation of 
£500 to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman