DRN-3294410
The complaint
Mr T complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc wrongly sent his personal information to a third 
party. 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr T took out a loan with Hitachi to pay for some home improvements. In May 
2021 He received an email from a third party, Mr S. Mr S explained that he was in the 
process of taking out a loan with Hitachi and had received in error Mr Ts finance document. 
Mr S said that he had told Hitachi what had happened and that he had deleted all emails 
attaching Mr Ts documents.
Mr T contacted Hitachi immediately to express his concern. He wanted to know how the 
error had occurred and what Hitachi proposed to do about it. 
Hitachi spoke to Mr T to say that the incident had been reported to its own data protection 
team and to the Information Commissioner. It was looking into preventative measures to 
stop similar incidents in the future. It offered Mr T £165 in compensation, but he said he had 
seen reports of awards of more than £3,000. Hitachi followed up the telephone call with a 
written final response, confirming the offer of £165. It was just over three weeks from the 
email from Mr S until Hitachi sent its final response.  
Mr T referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He thought that the offer of £165 was reasonable and did not recommend that 
Hitachi do any more to resolve the complaint. 
Mr T did not agree with the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute about the facts here. Hitachi acknowledges that it should not have sent 
Mr Ts finance agreement to Mr S. In doing so, it was in breach of data protection legislation 
and of its contractual duty to keep Mr Ts personal information secure and not to disclose it  
save to the extent permitted in the loan agreement. 
What I must do, therefore, is decide whether Hitachi has done enough to compensate Mr T 
for the distress caused by the breach and the inconvenience to which he has been put. I 
cannot however require Hitachi to change its systems (although I note it says it has done 
so); nor can I make an award to punish Hitachi. Those may be matters for the Information 
Commissioner, but I must consider the impact of events on Mr T. 
As Mr T noted in response to the investigators view, his personal details were sent to 
someone who says he notified Hitachi immediately and deleted that information. Hitachi in 
turn alerted the Information Commissioner, as it was obliged to do. 
Mr T has noted that the outcome could have been much worse for him. His information could 
have been sent to someone who, rather than deleting it and contacting Mr T, sought to use it 
for dishonest means. I must however consider the impact of what actually happened, not 
what might have happened. 
The breach here was serious. The loan agreement included Mr Ts name, address, date of 
birth, mobile phone number, email, salary, employer and bank account details. Against that, 
however, that information was only provided to one individual, who immediately deleted it 
and contacted Mr T and Hitachi.
In the circumstances, I think that the offer of £165 is reasonable  if towards the lower end of 
what I might expect. I do not propose therefore to make a higher award and simply leave it to 
Mr T to decide whether he wishes to accept it.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ts complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman