DRN-3676427
The complaint
Miss R complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) mis-sold her a hire purchase agreement and then provided incorrect 
information about her settlement payment.  
What happened
In February 2020, Miss R acquired a car through a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
She says that the agreement was mis-sold as she was told the total figure payable was 
£18,980 but then discovered it was much higher, £24,674. She also says that she was told 
she had signed the agreement on 27 February which wasnt correct as she hadnt decided 
how much deposit to pay until 28 February. 
The second part of Miss Rs complaint relates to the information she was given when she 
tried to settle the agreement. Miss R says these issues have affected her health. 
VWFS issued its final response on 17 May 2022. It upheld Miss Rs complaint and 
acknowledged that she had been given incorrect information about the settlement amounts 
due. VWFS offered to refund the difference of £76 between the quotes provided on 29 
March and 31 March and to pay £100 as an apology for the incorrect information provided. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought the offer made by VWFS to refund 
the difference between the two quotes and to pay £100 as a goodwill gesture was 
reasonable.
Miss R didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she was mis-advised when she 
first contacted VWFS about a settlement payment as she was told £5,000 was the maximum 
amount accepted. She says she paid £5,000 and this went through after verification with her 
bank and so there shouldnt have been any confusion about the amount remaining when she 
made contact on 6 April. Miss R says she spoke with several advisers between 29 March 
and 7 April with each giving incorrect figures.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Rs complaint has two parts. The first is about the mis-sale of the agreement, the 
second about the information received when she wanted to settle the agreement. I have 
dealt with each part separately.
Agreement mis-sale.
Miss R says that she wasnt aware of the total amount payable under the agreement and 
had been told this was a lower amount. I have considered Miss Rs comments and looked at 
the information provided. The first page of Miss Rs agreement clearly sets out the cost of 
the car, the deposit paid, and the amount of credit provided. These are the numbers Miss R 
has quoted. The agreement then sets out the interest rate applicable and the total amount 
payable (£24,674.94). So, while I note Miss Rs comments, I find the agreement was clear in 
regard to the cost of the credit provided and the total amount payable. Miss R signed the 
agreement and the pre contract information document which confirmed she had been 
provided with an explanation of the payments, interest and total amount payable. 
Miss R has also said that she didnt sign the agreement on 27 February and has provided 
evidence that she paid her deposit on 28 February. The audit trail provided by VWFS shows 
the signature being applied on 27 February. While I appreciate there seems to be a 
discrepancy here, Miss Rs signature is on the agreement dated 27 February and I do not 
find that this issue caused any material detriment to Miss R.
Based on the above, I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint about the mis-sale of the 
agreement.
 
Settlement amount
Miss R contacted VWFS wishing to settle her agreement. She made a payment on 29 March 
of £5,000. Miss R says she wasnt told the full settlement could be paid by bank transfer and 
instead was told she would need to make the payment by instalments. I have looked at the 
system notes provided by VWFS and these say that Miss R wanted to pay the settlement by 
card over three days. Therefore, it isnt clear what options were provided to Miss R, but I 
accept she had wanted to make the full settlement payment.  
Miss R received a letter dated 30 March confirming the receipt of the £5,000 and setting out 
how this had been applied to her agreement. Miss R also received a settlement quote dated 
30 March 2022 of £14,501.04. She says this didnt take into account her payments of £5,000 
made on 29 March or her regular monthly payment. I appreciate this may have caused some 
confusion, but the quote was valid from 11 March to 8 April and so was generated before the 
payments Miss R made on the 29 March. 
A new settlement quote of £14,170.91 was generated on 31 March and a further quote of 
£9,170.91 on 5 April (which takes into account her £5,000 payment). This information 
appears correct. But Miss R was then provided with incorrect information on 7 April (which 
was confirmed by email) as she was told the settlement amount was £4,170.91. Miss R paid 
this amount and while I appreciate she thought her agreement was settled at this time, I also 
accept she had been previously provided with a correct higher figure.
Overall, VWFS didnt provide the service it should have when Miss R contacted it about 
settling her agreement. The information provided was confusing and then on 7 April an 
incorrect settlement amount was given. This led Miss R to believe she had settled her 
agreement when there was still an amount outstanding. In situations such as this, we 
wouldnt expect VWFS to have to waive the outstanding amount due to the mistake made. 
However, we would expect it to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused through this process. In its final response letter, VWFS offered to refund the 
difference between the two quotes and also pay £100 by way of an apology. I appreciate 
that Miss R doesnt think this is sufficient compensation but, in this case, given the timing 
and the issues involved, I find this a fair resolution.
In conclusion while I agree that VWFS didnt provide the service it should have done when 
Miss R requested a settlement figure, I find the resolution it has offered is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services to do anything more than it offered in its final response letter 
dated May 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman