DRN-2949896
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the quality of a car he was financing through an agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr G. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
was the car faulty when supplied?
I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have so many issues with a brand-new car 
in the first couple of years and I dont think theyd think a brand-new car was suitably durable 
if the gearbox, steering rack, clutch and strut top mounts needed replacing within the first 
14,000 miles; as has been the case here. So, I dont think this car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied.
what does legislation require of the business?
The relevant legislation allows the business one chance to repair a car that is not of 
satisfactory quality but, thereafter, if the fault persists the consumer can reject it. 
However, if the consumer accepts repair as a resolution it wouldnt be fair to suggest the 
business should then allow rejection.
Here the business have repaired the car and whilst Mr G tells us he told the business he 
wanted to reject it. BMWFSs file notes dont support that that request was made until after 
the latest repair was commenced in October 2020 and BMWFS dispute that it was made 
earlier.
After the latest repair was completed the dealership agreed to take the car back and settle 
Mr Gs finance agreement. Whilst I understand Mr G would like his deposit back as well and 
some compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused, that would be an 
option Id usually consider only if rejection had been approved. Here Im not persuaded there 
is sufficient evidence that was the case. It seems more likely that Mr G approved a repair 
and subsequently agreed with the dealership to give the car back to them and have his 
agreement settled. I dont therefore think BMWFS need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman