DRN-3688590
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about the refusal of a business interruption insurance claim under her 
Pubs insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
Mrs M owns a pub which she runs under a trading name. Mrs M made a claim under the 
policy with RSA after she was forced to close the pub in March 2020, as a result of the 
Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic.  
RSA refused the claim, as it said the claim was not covered. RSA said the policy terms 
mean cover can only be provided where a business has had to close following a
manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises and there was no evidence of that in this case. 
RSA said the policy would also provide cover if a business is unable to access its premises 
but this requires there to have been damage to the premises, which is not the case here. 
Mrs M is very unhappy about this and so brought her complaint to us.  
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied RSA was entitled to refuse the claim. 
Mrs M does not accept the Investigators assessment. She has made a number of 
submissions in her initial complaint and in response to the Investigator. Ive considered all of 
the points made, but Ive just summarised the main ones below: 
Its obvious that the Government restrictions were to prevent the manifestation of a 
notifiable human disease at all premises including hers. 
If she had not closed then Covid-19 would obviously have manifested at the 
premises at significant social cost and cost to RSA. 
This was evidenced by the fact that after reopening in May 2021, she was forced to 
close again following an outbreak manifesting at the premises in August 2021. 
(Mrs M was no longer insured by RSA at that time.)
It was morally and ethically right to close and she made the decision to remain closed 
after restrictions were lifted in July 2020, as she was not able to ensure staff and 
customers would be safe. So, the pub was closed until May 2021.
She was forced to close the business as a direct result of a notifiable disease, so the 
claim should be covered.
The financial cost of this to Mrs M and the Government was not taken to absolve 
RSA of its financial obligations. 
RSA had the opportunity to refuse cover or change the terms of the notifiable 
disease extension on renewal of the policy in April 2020 and they chose not to. 
However, on renewal in April 2021 it made considerable changes to the policy 
wording to make it clear that the Business Interruption notifiable disease extension 
would not cover a disease of this type. 
In the early stages of the pandemic, testing was not available and some people 
showed no symptoms at all, or symptoms were similar to other illnesses.
There were cases of Covid-19 on its premises in February 2020, so RSA should 
cover the claim.
RSA is making its decision on the claim based on hindsight and semantics, which is 
grubby having recorded their highest annual profits for the previous two years in its 
300 year history. 
The policy must be looked at in its entirety and the refusal of the claim is not in the 
spirit of the policy.
The pandemic has had an enormous impact on Mrs Ms business and personal life, 
and she doesnt know if the business can be rebuilt. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the compliant, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had such an 
impact on Mrs Ms business. However, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Mrs Ms entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of 
Mrs Ms policy provides cover for a number of events. Many of these relate to damage and it 
isnt argued that damage, as required by the policy, is what led to Mrs Ms business being 
interrupted. But the core business interruption section is extended through various 
extensions, the most relevant of which Ive considered below.
Closure due to notifiable human disease
This extension says cover will be provided for losses as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
Premises is defined as being the address as shown in the Schedule, which is the pub 
address. 
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. However, for this extension to provide cover for   
Mrs Ms claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a 
result of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises.
As Mrs M has said, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, 
and the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able 
to produce a positive test result from that period. 
Its necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other evidence 
can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 manifested itself 
at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof 
rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers.Mrs M says that some of her customers believe they caught Covid-19, or were contagious 
with Covid-19, when they attended an event night at the premises in February 2020. For a 
disease to have manifested, it is likely the individual will need to have displayed symptoms 
or given some other positive sign of the disease at the time they were at the premises.
The Investigator invited Mrs M to provide further evidence about this but no further evidence 
has been provided. 
On the evidence available, it seems to me more likely that the pub closed as a result of the 
Government restrictions. And given this, I do not therefore think it was unreasonable for RSA 
to refuse the claim under this section of cover, as there is no convincing evidence of there 
having been a manifestation of Covid-19 at Mrs Ms premises at the relevant time.
Mrs M has said the purpose of the restrictions was to prevent Covid-19 manifesting itself in 
venues such as hers and it was the right to close in order to protect customers and staff. I do 
appreciate she had no choice but to close in March 2020 and she has suffered losses 
through no fault of her own. But for the insurance to cover the losses she suffered, there has 
to have been a manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises at the relevant time. 
Policy changes
Mrs M has also said RSA has changed the policy wording to make it clear it would not cover 
diseases like Covid-19. Whatever changes RSA might have made to subsequent policy 
documents, I dont think that means the original wording was unclear. In my opinion, the 
policy term relied on by RSA, and set out above, is sufficiently clear and is not inherently 
unfair. RSA is therefore entitled to rely on it. 
Test case 
Ive also considered the Supreme Court judgment in the FCAs test case in which the High 
Court and Supreme Court considered various policies which covered businesses which were 
forced to close as a result of notifiable diseases. However, the wording considered in the test 
case was different to that within Mrs Ms policy and whether a claim should be paid depends 
on the wording of the policy. Mrs Ms policy requires the closure or restrictions to have been 
as a result of notifiable disease at its premises and as Mrs M hasnt demonstrated that 
Covid-19 manifested itself at the premises, RSA is entitled to refuse the claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthyOmbudsman