DRN-3328161
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Hopkins & Jones Ltd will not honour a settlement offer it made in 
respect of a loan agreement and pawn receipt. She has been represented by her son.
What happened
Suttons & Robertsons is a firm of pawnbrokers. Its business and trading name was bought 
in December 2019 by Hopkins & Jones, so most of the events leading to this complaint 
occurred under the previous ownership.
Mrs G and her son have explained that they have used the services of Suttons & Robertsons 
on a number of occasions over several years. The arrangement giving rise to this complaint 
goes back to August 2016, when Mrs G pledged a number of items against a £5,000 loan.
That loan was renewed in November 2017 and in June 2018. It was renewed for a third time 
in January 2019. By this time, the amount still due was £2,800 and the remaining items 
pledged as security were two watches. The January 2019 agreement recorded that Mrs G 
was to repay the loan and interest (together totalling £3,808) on 8 July 2019  although it 
included provision for early repayment.
Mrs G was unable to repay the loan in July 2019, and her son contacted Suttons & 
Robertsons to discuss her options. As well as telephone calls, their exchanges included:
an email timed at 14:32 on 10 July 2019, in which Suttons & Robertsons offered to 
accept £968 to settle the loan;
an email timed at 14:49 on the same day, saying that the earlier email had been sent in 
error;
an email timed at 16:45 on the same day, offering to reduce the amount due to £2,000, 
payable over 12 months; and 
an email from Mrs Gs son of 15 July 2019, offering to pay £1,200 over 12 months in full 
and final settlement. 
In December 2019 the business was sold to Hopkins & Jones. It says that the assets it 
bought included Mrs Gs loan. The amount due at the time was nearly £4,700, including 
interest which had accrued on the principal sum of £2,800. There was, it said, no agreement 
to accept a lower amount. It indicated that it would be prepared to freeze interest from 12 
March 2019, when it had first responded to concerns Mrs G had raised about events before 
the most recent agreement had been signed. It said it would accept £3,116 to settle the 
matter.
Mrs G said that Suttons & Robertsons had agreed to accept a reduced amount and that 
Hopkins & Jones was bound by that agreement. She referred the matter to this service, 
where one of our investigators considered what had happened. She did not think that Mrs G 
had been treated unfairly and did not recommend that Hopkins & Jones take any further 
action. Mrs Gs son did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said:
I was satisfied that Hopkins & Jones had bought the business of Suttons & Robertsons. 
Whilst I had not seen a copy of any agreement between them, I thought that the assets 
sold would have included any debt owed by Mrs G. If she had reached a settlement 
arrangement before the sale, that would be binding on Hopkins & Jones. 
Any settlement arrangement would need to comprise an offer and acceptance. I 
explained that an offer remains open for acceptance until it is accepted, rejected or 
withdrawn. 
I thought that the offer to accept £968 had been withdrawn before acceptance (having 
been made in error). The later offer to accept £2,000 had not been withdrawn but had 
been rejected by the counter-offer to pay £1,200.
It followed that there had been no agreement to accept a lower amount than that set out 
in the agreement of 9 January 2019. I did not therefore require Hopkins & Jones to do 
any more to resolve the complaint. 
Hopkins & Jones had nothing further to add. On behalf of his mother, Mr Gs son said that, 
following his email of 15 July 2019, she had verbally accepted the offer to accept £2,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs son has pointed out  correctly  that a binding agreement does not have to be in 
writing. It can be made orally by telephone or partly in writing and partly by telephone. He 
says that his mother accepted by telephone the offer made in the email times at 16:45 on 10 
July 2019. He says too that she accepted the offer at some point after his email of 15 July 
2019.
If, as is suggested, an offer was accepted by telephone, I would expect to see that 
acceptance confirmed in writing, especially where, as in this case, there have been email 
exchanges. There is no such confirmation here. But in any event, the offer on the part of 
Suttons & Robertsons to accept £2,000 was not available for acceptance after the email of 
15 July 2019; it had been rejected by the counter-offer to pay £1,200. Even if Mrs G did 
make a telephone call as her son as described, that would not have led to a binding 
agreement to settle the matter once the 15 July email had been sent and received. 
As the investigator indicated, Hopkins & Jones should consider how it ought to address any 
financial difficulties in which Mrs G finds herself. I do not however propose to make any 
award in that respect.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Hopkins & Jones Ltd to take any 
further steps to resolve Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.  Mike Ingram
Ombudsman