DRN-3212711
The complaint
Mr G says Smith, Law & Shepherds I.F.A Limited (SLS) is responsible for the unsuitable 
advice it gave him to transfer his occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a James Hay 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr G is represented by Money Redress Limited (MRL).
What happened
SLS has failed to provide any information in relation to what happened in this case despite 
several requests from this Service. It has failed to engage adequately in the process. This is 
cause for significant concern. It follows that Ive had to base my decision on the information 
we do have, most of which has been provided by Mr G and his representative.
MRL says Mr G was introduced to SLS after a doorstep cold call offering a review of his 
pension arrangements. He thought it might be nice to release some cash with a view to 
paying off his mortgage, to take a holiday and build an emergency cash reserve. But it said 
these were optional, not necessary, expenditure items. Mr G confirms it was SLS who gave 
him the advice and recommendations.
Mr G was a member of an OPS and had deferred benefits. The partially completed, undated 
and unsigned financial planning questionnaire we have records he was 56 around the time 
of the advice. His intended retirement age was 67. He was in full time employment at a 
school. And his priority was planning a secure retirement.
Mr Gs net monthly income was around £1,800 per month, with joint monthly income 
recorded as £2,489. There was a monthly household disposable income of around £400. He 
and his wife had a small outstanding mortgage on around £20,000.
On 21 November 2017, Hymans Robertson issued Plutus Partnership Limited (PPL) details 
of Mr Gs OPS pension at date of leaving. The letter stated that a transfer value and 
discharge forms would be sent separately. I note PPL was an Appointed Representative 
(AR) of SLS, and so SLS as principal was responsible for any of its acts and omissions in 
respect of matters relating to this complaint.
On 16 January 2018, a form confirming advice to Mr G to transfer his OPS benefits to a 
James Hay SIPP was completed. The transferring scheme details were provided. The form 
was signed by an adviser at SLS (FCA reference 719232).
James Hay Modular SIPP transaction statements show Mr Gs OPS benefits were received 
on 22 February 2018. The transfer value was around £247,861. On 2 March 2018, a debit on 
his account was made for £7,436  this is shown as SLSs initial charge for advice.
On 7 March 2018, PPL wrote to Mr G confirming it would be taking over the servicing of his 
pension following the advice received from SLS about his OPS transfer. The letter 
recommended investing in the TJM Cautious portfolios. And it set out the fees and charges 
applicable for its services. On the same day £190,000 was transferred from Mr Gs SIPP to 
TJM Partnership Plc (investment managers). And he took £45,000 tax-free cash (TFC).
In subsequent weeks and months Mr G drew further TFC and income. And ongoing fees 
were paid to PPL and James Hay. On 12 December 2018, Mr G received a portfolio report 
from PPL. It confirmed the value of his SIPP was just under £168,000.
MRL complained to SLS about what had happened on behalf of Mr G in July 2019. But SLS 
never responded. MRL brought the case to our Service setting out its concerns about the 
advice provided. It said the recommendation to transfer Mr Gs OPS benefits was unsuitable. 
It said hed been assessed as a high-risk investor but had no experience of investments. 
MRL says SLS didnt meet the regulatory requirements placed on it.
The Investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. He also followed up with SLS to make sure it had 
received his view. The only communication Ive seen on file is a commitment from SLS on 12 
July 2021 to provide its file on the case the next day. Unfortunately, nothing materialised.
Given the status of the case, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me for review. I issued 
my provisional decision last month. Neither part has responded with new evidence or 
arguments. And Ive no reason to depart from my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Gs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by SLS for Mr G. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like SLS. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Gs complaint.At the time of the advice SLS gave Mr G, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in 
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, SLS was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr G to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr G a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr G understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, SLS had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available under 
the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements proposed 
before it advised Mr G on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs and 
the associated investments. For example, in January 2013 it issued an industry alert which 
said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect. The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when 
advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension 
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Did SLS adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think SLS met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
SLS have failed to provide key documents that Id usually be able to review. For example, 
Ive not seen a complete fact-find showing Mr Gs circumstances, objectives and risk 
appetite. The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report is missing. And I havent seen a 
suitability report which wouldve set out the rationale for its recommendations.
We do know Mr G was 56 at the time of the transfer and the benefits hed accrued within his 
OPS wouldve been relatively secure and likely came with certain protections and 
guarantees. Its more likely than not his OPS formed a significant element of his pension 
provision. This meant the security of his defined benefits pension wouldve been important.
Its also of note the partial financial planning questionnaire suggests Mrs G didnt have a 
pension of her own. As such it is likely both Mr and Mrs G wouldve placed significant 
reliance on his pension income at retirement. Mrs G may also have benefited from the 
pension too -providing her with an income in the event of Mr Gs death.
These were valuable benefits with no direct costs for Mr G. And any risk associated with the 
scheme was significantly borne by the provider. Mr G ended up with a relatively costly 
arrangement, where hed taken on the risk associated with investing his funds.
As set out in COBS 19.1.6, the starting point for SLS was to start from the position that the 
transfer of Mr Gs OPS benefits would be unsuitable. Its had plenty of opportunity to 
demonstrate that it provided sound advice and that it was in Mr Gs best interests for the 
transfer to proceed. SLS has failed to clear this first and fundamental hurdle. And thats why 
Im upholding his complaint.
Mr G confirmed he paid off his mortgage and credit cards upon receipt of the TFC. His 
outstanding mortgage was around £20,000 and there were no details regarding his credit 
cards. While there are advantages to paying off debts, there would have been alternatives 
available. SLS hasnt satisfied me it effectively engaged with him about the range of options 
open to him.
Mr G had a reasonable disposable income each month. Hes told us he had no pressing 
need for TFC, and while I place less weight on recent testimony than contemporaneous 
evidence, his sentiment sits reasonably with the partial information captured in the fact-find. I 
dont think accessing his pension to repay modest debts, where theres no evidence of a 
problem servicing these, makes SLSs advice to transfer his OPS benefits suitable.
From the available evidence, Mr Gs OPS benefits wouldve formed a large part of his 
income in retirement. At the date of leaving his former employer, his pension was worth 
around £6,800 per annum. This wouldve been revalued up until he took the benefits, and 
then annually in retirement. Its likely he wouldve been able to take a lump sum payment. 
And he mayve been able to take his pension benefits early, perhaps with some actuarial 
reduction. His wife would also have received valuable benefits.Unfortunately, SLS hasnt provided us with any details about the flexibilities and protections 
associated with Mr Gs OPS. It will of course have needed to have gathered and analysed 
such information in the course of providing its advice to him.
SLS recommended Mr G transfer his protected OPS benefits to a SIPP where his pot would 
be dependent on market performance with no guarantees. I cant see that it made him aware 
that effectively he was moving from a position where his former employer bore most of the 
risk associated with his pension, to one where he was taking on the risks.
There needed to be a significant chance of improving on those benefits to demonstrate the 
transfer was in Mr Gs best interests. SLS hasnt provided the TVAS it was required to 
commission. So, I dont know what investment return wouldve been required from his new 
arrangements for them to better his OPS benefits.
SLS gave its advice after the regulator had published instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by this Service. Whilst firms weren't required to refer to these when 
giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
wouldve been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The discount rate published by this Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 3.8% 
per year for 10 years to retirement. Achieving this wouldve essentially matched the benefits 
Mr G was giving up. So, a higher rate wouldve been needed to improve on these benefits in 
order to establish on this one measure that a transfer of his OPS benefits might be 
worthwhile.
The problem for SLS is that I havent seen a risk assessment for Mr G. Based on the few 
documents I do have it appears his OPS benefits were placed into a cautious portfolio of 
funds. But to generate returns necessary to exceed the critical yield, or discount rate, I think 
its reasonable to assume he wouldve needed a higher investment risk appetite. So, the 
transfer was unsuitable on this basis also.
Further, I cant see SLS assessed Mr Gs capacity for loss. From the evidence we have, 
given his relative proximity to retirement; his lack of alternative pension provision; and the 
lack of assets (excluding his home)  its reasonable to conclude he had a low capacity for 
loss. Any erosion of his pension funds would likely have had a detrimental impact upon him 
in retirement because he had limited means to deal with.
Theres no evidence Mr G had knowledge and experience of pension and investment 
matters. I think this shouldve been clear from the information gleaned by SLS and/or its AR. 
Ive not seen evidence that it effectively advised Mr G about the long-term nature of pension 
planning. The need for a pot of funds to provide an income for many years ahead. Ive not 
seen any analysis about how much his OPS wouldve contributed to his retirement income 
prospects.
I cant see that Mr Gs required income in retirement was explored. In the evidence Ive 
seen, theres no attempt by SLS to get to the bottom of this fundamental question. And we 
also dont know what flexibilities were available to Mr G under his OPS. SLS hasnt satisfied 
me that it treated Mr G fairly by helping him to understand the significance of the decision he 
was about to make.
SLSs role was to discern what Mr Gs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply 
to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to do these things because it 
had to act in his best interests. I dont think its demonstrably met these obligations.SLS was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr G about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for retirement. And certainly, when early access to benefits is 
contemplated, there need to be compelling reasons, on balance I dont think that was the 
case here.
Based on the evidence available, there were failings in the advice process which meant Mr 
G wasnt fully informed about his position and I think its more likely than not the effect of 
fuller information and better analysis wouldve been significant to his decision making. SLSs 
communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in his best interests. And it failed to act with 
due care and skill.
The various charges involved in the transfer recommendation, wouldve also have had an 
impact on Mr Gs retirement pot. These charges would impact the fund value and any 
potential growth in a fund which was already reliant on market conditions.
The initial transfer fee alone was over £7,400. To this wouldve been added the ongoing 
financial advice service fee; the SIPP providers fees; and any annual management fees 
charged by the funds. Ive not seen any analysis by SLS of the impact of these costs on Mr 
Gs pension provision, as it was required to produce. Nor can I see that he was made aware 
of the comparison of costs between his OPS and the new arrangements it was putting in 
place.
SLS shouldve provided Mr G with fully formed and unequivocal advice not to proceed with 
the transfer of his OPS benefits. Had it done so; I dont think he wouldve gone ahead with 
the transaction. I say this because its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice 
and then go against the recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr Gs OPS benefits could sensibly be regarded as 
fair to him. As such I think SLS failed to meet the regulatory requirements placed on it when 
providing him with such advice and making the arrangements. 
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, on balance its reasonable to 
uphold this complaint against SLS and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Gs case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Smith, Law & Shepherds I.F.A Limited responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Smith, Law & Shepherds I.F.A Limited should 
pay Mr G the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that SLS pays Mr G the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. SLS doesnt have to do what 
I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr G can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
I consider Mr G wouldve remained in his OPS. Smith, Law & Shepherds I.F.A Limited 
should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review 
methodology, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit pension 
transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
SLS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date 
SLS receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes SLS to 
pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. As such, I require 
Smith, Law & Shepherds I.F.A Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022. Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman