DRN-3906919
The complaint
Mrs T complained that the value of her pension funds fell significantly while managed by 
Aviva Life & Pensions Limited (Aviva). She complained that Aviva had not managed her 
funds appropriately and she should be compensated for the loss of value to her funds.
What happened
Mrs T originally opened a pension plan with Aviva in mid 2009, making regular monthly 
payments into the plan. Her funds were originally invested in the Norwich Union Deposit 
Account. 
Mrs T has continued to make payments into her plan, changing the funds the plan invested 
in in November 2017, August 2019 and October 2020. Aviva did not provide Mrs T with any 
financial advice, and neither is there any record of an independent financial adviser (IFA) 
associated with Mrs Ts pension plan. 
Mrs T complained to Aviva on 7 August 2022, after reviewing her most recent annual 
statement. This statement showed that in the period between July 2021 and June 2022, the 
value of her funds had fallen by almost £3,300, excluding the contributions she had made 
and tax relief she had received. She felt that these losses had arisen due to poor 
management of her funds and that she should be compensated for this. 
Aviva investigated and issued a final response to her on 6 September 2022, not upholding 
her complaint. It explained that the value of her funds had declined due to volatile market 
conditions including the conflict in the Ukraine, rising energy costs and increasing rates of 
inflation.
Mrs T was not satisfied with this response and brought her complaint to this service. Mrs T 
also provided comparison data to other fund and stock market performance as evidence that 
the funds she was invested in had been poorly managed and underperformed relative to 
these benchmarks.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and formed the view that the complaint should not be 
upheld. Mrs T disagreed so the case has been passed to me to review the evidence again 
and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
I can appreciate that this will be disappointing for her, so let me explain how I have reached 
my decision.
Firstly, I think its important to establish that Aviva acted solely as the administrator of Mrs 
Ts pension. It is not authorised to provide any investment advice, but to act as directed by 
Mrs T in relation to any investment decisions relating to her pension. This is made clear in 
the annual statement Mrs T received in June 2022 which states:
we cant give you financial advice, but were happy to help with any queries you may have.
As Aviva did not recommend or otherwise advise Mrs T to invest in the funds she did, I think 
its clear that Mrs T is responsible for the choice of the funds she held in her pension during 
this period.
As Mrs T had, on several occasions, instructed Aviva to change the investment funds she 
held in her pension, Im also satisfied that she was aware that she could switch to any other 
of the funds offered by Aviva at any time, so I cant see that it has done anything wrong in 
this respect.
Turning now to look at the main substance of Mrs Ts complaint, that Aviva failed to manage 
the funds she was invested in appropriately, and that they underperformed both benchmarks 
with similar asset classes and overall financial markets. 
I can understand why Mrs T is unhappy with the performance of her fund during the period in 
question, but the issue of benchmarking fund performance is not straightforward. The funds 
that Mrs T invested in are actively managed  that means that the money is invested in 
specific assets or funds chosen by a fund manager. This is different to a tracker type fund, 
where investments are made automatically to track a particular asset class over time. If an 
active manager in a certain period performs poorly relative to their benchmark, or other fund 
managers operating similar types of fund, thats because the fund manager has taken 
certain decisions that havent paid off  at least in the period under review. Thats 
disappointing, of course, but is a reflection of the fund manager exercising their judgement  
which theyre supposed to do. It doesnt mean the fund manager has been negligent or failed 
in their duty of care. It doesnt even mean the fund managers decisions wont pay off over 
the longer term. Ultimately, if Mrs T did want to take away the fund managers judgement 
and the potential for relative underperformance (and outperformance) that this entails, then 
she would have to invest in index tracking funds. 
There is also an element of risk in all types of investment, and the rate of return from 
investments such as these arent guaranteed, and values can fall as well as rise. The events 
that Aviva described in its response to Mrs Ts complaint caused significant market volatility 
during the period, reducing the returns from, or causing losses for, very many types of 
investment. 
I note that Mrs T has a target retirement date in around 30 years time, and that she began 
her pension investment nearly 15 years ago. Given the long term nature of these type of 
investments it is reasonable to expect that the value of funds would fluctuate due to the 
effect of macro-economic factors rather than follow a smooth path.
While I can appreciate that Mrs T is disappointed in the performance of her pension funds 
over the period in question, I do not find that the fall in her fund values represent a failure to 
maintain a duty of care toward her.
As a result, I find that Aviva has done nothing wrong in this respect either.
Consequently, and disappointing as it will be for Mrs T to hear, I do not hold Aviva 
responsible for the loss in value to her pension fund.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
As a result, I will not be asking Aviva to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman