DRN-3468845
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Marks & Spencer Financial Service Plc (M&S) have been 
reporting his personal loan to the credit reference agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Mr G missed a scheduled payment on his M&S loan account. When M&S spoke with Mr G 
about this, Mr G explain to M&S that he was suffering with depression following a difficult 
divorce and child custody issues. M&S agreed to place a six month hold on Mr Gs account 
whereby he wouldnt be required to make any payments towards the account during that 
period. M&S also confirmed to Mr G that his credit file wouldnt be adversely affected by his 
not making any payments towards his account during the six-month hold period.
At the end of the six-month hold period, Mr G got back in touch with M&S and discovered 
that M&S had been reporting missed and partial payments on his loan account to his credit 
file. Mr G wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint with M&S. 
M&S looked into Mr Gs complaint and acknowledged that Mr G hadnt been given correct 
information when he agreed to the hold period as to how any monthly loan repayments he 
wasnt able to make during that period would be reported to the CRAs. M&S apologised to 
Mr G for this and agreed to remove any adverse reporting from Mr Gs credit file up to that 
time, and they also made a payment of £100 to Mr G to compensate him for any trouble or 
upset he may have incurred.
However, M&S also confirmed to Mr G at that time that any accrued or new arrears that 
remained or were accrued on his loan account from the point of the next due monthly 
payment onwards would be reported as such to the CRAs.
Mr G wasnt able to recover the position of his loan account by the time of the next due 
monthly payment, and M&S reported the arrears on his account to the CRAs as a result. Mr 
G wasnt happy about this and felt that M&S should honour the statement made by their 
advisor when he agreed to the first hold period that his credit file wouldnt be affected by his 
not making the agreed monthly payments. So, he raised a complaint.
M&S looked at Mr Gs complaint. But they noted that theyd explained to Mr G that they 
would commence reporting any arrears on his account to the CRAs in their response to his 
previous complaint. So, they didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Gs complaint. However, M&S 
did note that they hadnt amended Mr Gs credit file during the original hold period to the 
extent that theyd previously advised they would, so they apologised to Mr G for this, 
arranged for his credit file to be corrected, and made a further payment to Mr G of £75.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with M&Ss response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that M&S had acted unfairly 
towards Mr G in how theyd managed this situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr G would want M&S to not report the arrears that had accrued on his 
loan account to the CRAs, especially as he was informed by M&S when he first approached 
them for financial assistance that if he wasnt able to make payments towards his account 
during the hold period that this wouldnt adversely affect his credit file.
However, credit providers such as M&S have an obligation to make accurate reports to the 
CRAs as to whether a credit account holder has been able to make the monthly repayments 
that are contractually required by that holders credit account.
This means that M&Ss agent was providing incorrect information when they explained to   
Mr G that he wouldnt incur any adverse reporting on his credit file if he wasnt able to make 
payments during the agreed hold period.
M&S have acknowledged that their agent provided incorrect information to Mr G in this 
regard, and theyve accepted that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect Mr G to incur 
adverse credit file reporting under these circumstances, given that Mr Gs actions during the 
hold period had been guided by the incorrect information that hed been given. 
For this reason, when Mr G first complained about the adverse reporting on his credit file, 
M&S agreed to amend the adverse reporting on Mr Gs credit file up to that time. This seems 
reasonable to me, and I share M&Ss position that it wasnt fair to expect Mr G to have 
incurred such adverse credit reporting, having been previously advised incorrectly that that 
wouldnt be the case.
But given M&Ss obligations to make accurate reports to the CRAs, as explained previously 
above, it would also be expected that having recognised that Mr G had been acting on 
incorrect information up to that time, that M&S would provide the correct information to Mr G 
on how his not being able to clear any arrears that had accrued on his account, or not being 
able to make future scheduled loan repayments, would be reported on his credit file moving 
forwards.
M&S did that here, and in their response to Mr Gs initial complaint they advised him both 
verbally on the telephone and in writing that any arrears that remained or were incurred on 
his loan account from the date of the next scheduled loan repayment onwards would be 
reported as such to the CRAs. And as alluded to above, this is what I would have expected 
M&S to have done here, given the circumstances of what happened and their ongoing 
obligations as a credit provider.
I can appreciate that Mr Gs personal and financial circumstances were such that he wasnt 
able to recover the position of his loan account by the date of the next scheduled repayment, 
meaning that M&S did then report arrears to his credit file as theyd explained that they 
would.
But I dont feel that this was unfair or unreasonable. Rather, I feel that by reporting the 
arrears on Mr Gs loan account at that time as they did, M&S were fulfilling their obligation as 
a credit provider to make accurate reports to the CRAs, as would be expected of them.
It isnt in dispute that M&S initially provided incorrect information to Mr G about whether any 
payments on his loan account that he wasnt able to make would be reported to the CRAs. 
But Im satisfied that by amending Mr Gs credit file up to the point that M&S were able to update Mr Gs understanding on this matter, that M&S have already undertaken the 
corrective action that I feel it was fair for them to undertake. 
Additionally, I also feel that the compensation that M&S have already paid to Mr G, totalling 
£175, already provides fair compensation for the incorrect information and the inconvenience 
that Mr G has incurred here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding Mr Gs 
complaint or instructing M&S to make further amendments to his credit file as he would like.
I also feel that it must be noted that Mr G can be said to have benefited from the incorrect 
information that M&S provided to him in the first instance. I say this because Mr G had 
approached M&S for financial assistance, and so I feel that it was unlikely that Mr G would 
have been able to make all the monthly repayments required on the loan during the agreed 
hold period, even had he wanted to do so in order to avoid the possibility of incurring 
adverse reporting on his credit file, which any financial assistance provided by M&S would 
have entailed.
As such, it seems to me that its more likely than not that by having his credit file amended 
by M&S for the months of the initial agreed hold period, that Mr G has avoided having 
adverse reporting on his credit file during those months that I feel it was likely he would have 
incurred, even had he been given the correct information as to the consequences of not 
making payments towards his account during that period by M&S in the first instance. 
I realise that the events in question here occurred during a very difficult time for Mr G both 
personally and financially, and I can sympathise with the situation he found himself in. But I 
dont feel that M&S have acted unfairly towards Mr G here as he contends. And so, while I 
realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr G was wanting, I do hope that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman