DRN-2202175
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained about a mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy sold to them in the early 1990s. The mortgage and PPI have since been closed and 
Cumberland Building Society (CBS) is responsible for answering the complaint. 
Ill therefore mainly refer to CBS throughout this decision.
What happened
Im sorry the case has taken a while to get this stage. Nevertheless, I see one of our 
adjudicators has assessed it a while ago and told Mr and Mrs C its unlikely to be upheld. 
They disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
I note that Mr and Mrs C clearly feel very strongly about what they consider to be a mis-sold 
policy. And Id like to reassure them Ive looked very carefully over all the many issues they 
cite as to why the policy could be said to be mis-sold. They have evidently put some effort 
into bringing the complaint to us in what I acknowledge is a very comprehensive and clear 
manner. Ive also looked closely at all the documents we have still left from the sale and 
used my considerable experience of PPI products to think about should happen.
However, this case involved the sale of a compulsory PPI policy. Contrary to common 
knowledge, such policies did exist and were allowable, subject to certain criteria. Usually, 
as in this case, the reason for the policy being compulsory was that it was part of a 
mortgage incentive package, or where a special mortgage (for example one covering 100% 
of the home purchase price) was provided. Sometimes the interest rate on the mortgage 
was slightly lower if the buyer(s) agreed to buy certain types of financial products alongside 
their mortgage. This might include them buying home insurance or PPI.
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was one such example. They were allowed to borrow 100% of 
the value of their home. They therefore they had the benefit of a special incentive linked to 
that mortgage, so they would have been able to keep back any savings they otherwise 
might have used for the house purchase. The PPI cost £14.85 per month and would have 
paid out up to £150 per month (per person) for a year if Mr and Mrs C had made a 
successful claim. Both were equally covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs C make many points of complaint. Their main one however - that they were told 
the policy wasnt optional  is covered by what Ive said above. In this case, if they didnt 
want to have the PPI, the option was there for them to choose a different mortgage which 
had no such incentivisation. 
Other points, such as them not being told they could go elsewhere for PPI protection dont, 
in my view, evidence a reason to uphold their complaint. This is broadly for similar reasons 
to those Ive outlined above: the PPI was a condition of this particular product, and other 
mortgages (either with or not with CBS) would have been options for them to think about.
The first thing I therefore need to decide about here is whether their consent was obtained 
for the PPI in question. Obviously, after some 28 years, I cant say they were told 
everything they ought to have been told. But all the paperwork Ive seen indicates a 
substantive discussion took place and their financial situation was probably assessed by a 
mortgage adviser. I think Mr and Mrs C would have been aware the mortgage was 
incentivised as a result of that discussion. I think they would also have known they were 
getting something from the mortgage that was better than other products that were 
available. I also think the compulsory nature would have been clear enough and they 
ultimately agreed to have this mortgage because it was something they found attractive. 
In short, I think they agreed to the PPI cover as part of the overall mortgage deal.
As Ive implied, the sale was probably an advised one so CBS had a duty to ensure the 
PPI was suitable for them. Mr and Mrs C give many details about their financial situation to 
say why the PPI wasnt something they needed. Ive taken a good deal of time to carefully 
read everything theyve said about this, including the sickness and redundancy protection 
they would have had from their respective jobs and the potential for their family to help out if 
they ever encountered such circumstances.
However, Ive seen nothing that shows this policy wasnt suitable for them. I say this 
because both appear to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt 
affordable for them. The mortgage was a significant financial commitment over the long-
term and secured against their home, so the consequences of them not being able to keep 
up payments could have been serious. Nor do I think a reliance on relatives to cover a 
mortgage is a comparable method of protection given the long-term nature of the lending.
On the other hand, in the event of a successful claim, the PPI cover was payable for up to 
12 months which would have been in addition to any other means they had in place at the 
time. So, even though they had some work-related benefits, I dont think the PPI being 
recommended to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was a suitable product for their 
consideration and theres no doubt in my mind they agreed to buy it.
 
I take note of the comprehensive submission about what Mr and Mrs C were told during the 
mortgage interview. However, as this was so long ago, I think its fair to place only so much 
weight on this and CBS does not agree it told them they had no choice but to take this 
product. CBS had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading for 
example. I have already said I cant confirm whether CBS did everything right but having 
discussed the cover, I believe Mr and Mrs C were given the supporting literature explaining 
the policy rules. We have copies of various supporting documents in this regard and Ive got 
no reason to think they wouldnt have been given these. This shows they would have 
known the price, who was covered and what they were covered for.
Mr and Mrs C also make a number of other points which include the price of the PPI rising 
over later years and them having other, unrelated PPI claims upheld in similar situations. However, Im afraid I dont consider these relevant to the point of sale decisions in this 
case. Consumers do face choices about value for money and they have to re-assess the 
products theyve bought from time to time. I cant uphold a complaint about a mis-sale on 
the basis an insurance policy subsequently went up in price in the years that followed. And 
the other PPI product they mention will have no-doubt been bought at a different time and 
under different conditions  Im examining this case only.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C. However, my final decision on this complaint is in 
accordance with our normal approach. We see many similar situations, where some 
mortgages from around that time period came with conditions like those in this case. Ive 
applied Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances to the situation and Im afraid I dont agree that the 
policy wasnt suitable for them. The sale was clearly a considerable time ago, but the 
evidence shows its much more likely they were told about the mortgage and the conditions 
it came with. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
I do not direct Cumberland Building Society to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman