DRN-2902317
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Aviva Health UK Limited dealt with a claim against her medical 
insurance policy. Mrs S husband, Mr S, is helping her to bring her complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here and Ill concentrate on giving my reasons for my decision.
In summary, Mrs S has the benefit of medical insurance via her employer. She had 
surgery in the NHS in October 2017. Mrs S complains that the surgery should have been 
carried out privately and wants compensation for that. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In correspondence with this service, Aviva offered to pay Mrs S the NHS cash benefit under 
the policy and £300 compensation. I think thats fair and reasonable and Ill explain why:
Mrs S policy provides that a member cant claim for private treatment or the NHS 
cash benefit payable under the policy if their treatment is available on the NHS within 
six weeks from the date their specialists recommends their treatment. So, its 
important to establish the date on which Mrs S specialist recommended treatment.
Its common ground that Mrs S could have qualified for private treatment. In response 
to Mrs S complaint and in correspondence with this service, Aviva accepted that on 
29 August 2017, Mrs S specialist told her that shed need surgery. Mrs S surgery 
took place more than six weeks later. Aviva offered to pay Mrs S the NHS cash 
benefit under the policy and £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience and 
Mr S parking charges. I think thats fair and Ill explain why.
Mr S, on Mrs S behalf, says that Aviva should pay Mrs S a level of compensation 
based on how much it would have paid if Mrs S treatment had been private. I dont 
agree thats a fair and reasonable basis for assessing compensation in this case. As 
the investigator has explained, this service isnt the regulator and we dont assess 
compensation on the basis of punishing the insurer. 
In looking at compensation for distress and inconvenience, we consider the effect 
any mistake had on the individual, Mrs S in this case. We dont look at the expense 
the insurer may have incurred if thered been a different course of action. And we 
cant consider Mr S distress, inconvenience or expenses because this is Mrs S 
claim.   
Here, Mrs S had treatment on the NHS, rather than private treatment. Ive seen 
nothing to show that the treatment and care Mrs S received in the NHS were not as 
good as she would have received if shed had private treatment. But Mrs S lost the 
privacy she may have had in a private setting. And visiting times were likely more 
restricted than they would have been if shed had private treatment. 
Considering everything, I think that Avivas offer to pay Mrs S the NHS cash benefit 
under the policy and compensation of £300 is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Aviva should pay Mrs S the NHS cash benefit and compensation of £300 in relation to 
distress and inconvenience, which it has now offered to do.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Health UK Limited should take the steps Ive set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman