DRN-2796771
The complaint
Mr R is not happy that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) dealt with a claim from a third party for 
damage to their car under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Rs car was involved in a very minor collision with another vehicle. This happened when 
he was reversing out of a parking space and made contact with a vehicle parked behind him. 
He says there was no visible damage to either car and he did not intend to make a claim. He 
exchanged details with the third party and reported the incident to Covea for notification only. 
Mr R was contacted the following day by the third party. Mr R overheard the third party and 
another person discuss the damage to the car and what might be claimed. Mr R was 
concerned that the third party may claim for excessive damage and reported this to Covea.
Covea then received a claim from the third party for damage to their car. Covea accepted 
liability for the accident and instructed an engineer to examine the car. The engineer 
reported that the only damage which he believed was accident related was to the front 
bumper on the drivers side. Covea settled the claim with the third party on this basis.
Mr R was not happy with Coveas handling of the matter and complained. He did not think it 
right that Covea should be dealing with a claim on his policy which was initiated by the third 
party when he had specifically informed Covea that he did not intend to make a claim 
himself. 
Covea said that they had a duty to investigate and deal with the claim made by the third 
party. They said they accepted liability based on Mr Rs account and instructed their own 
engineer to ensure that the damage claimed was not exaggerated.
Mr R was not happy with Coveas response and brought his complaint to us. He was not 
satisfied that Covea had the right to deal with the claim. Our investigator looked into the 
matter but did not think that Covea had done anything wrong. She thought that Covea were 
obliged to deal with the claim under the policy and properly investigated the damage to the 
third partys car by obtaining their own engineers report.
Mr R did not agree with the investigators view. He says that he does not think Covea should 
have initiated claim procedures at the request of the third party. He asked for the matter to 
be placed before an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs complaint against Covea is that they dealt with a claim for damages from a third party 
after Mr R made it clear that he was not claiming on the policy himself. He doesnt think that 
the third party, who is not a party to his contract of insurance, is able to make a claim under 
his policy. Mr R points to Section E of Coveas policy booklet which says Nothing in this 
contract shall create any rights to third parties under the Contracts (Rights of Third parties) 
Act 1999. Mr R has interpreted this to mean that the third party does not have any right to 
claim under his policy. 
When a third party makes a claim for damages, they are not claiming under the car 
insurance policy as such, but against the policyholder or other persons covered under the 
policy. No third-party rights are therefore being created under the contract of insurance. The 
purpose of the insurance policy is for the insurer to then indemnify the persons covered 
under the policy against any losses which have been caused by their use of the car. This 
allows a third party involved in an accident that wasnt their fault to be compensated for their 
loss by the insurer. 
I have considered all the terms of the insurance contract and all the policy documents. The 
contract of insurance was between Mr Rs wife and Covea. Mr R was a named driver on the 
policy and is covered by its terms. The third party is not a party to the contract as Mr R quite 
rightly says, and they do not gain any rights under the contract. 
The terms of the contract are contained in various documents including the policy booklet. 
The booklet confirms in Section B that liability to others is covered under the policy at 
Section 1. Section 1 says The insurer will pay amounts including claimants costs that you 
are legally liable to pay for including damage to someone elses property caused by an 
incident involving the car.
Section 17 of the policy booklet says that the insurer is entitled under the policy to Take 
over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name or in the name of 
any other person insured by your policy. This term essentially gives Covea a contractual 
right to settle the claim how it chooses. It doesnt need the agreement or consent of the 
policyholder. Such terms are not unusual and feature in most car insurance policies. 
However, just because the term is in the policy, doesnt mean that its fair or reasonable for 
the insurer to simply do as it pleases. The ultimate decision on the claim, even if cost 
related, must still be based on facts and evidence.
Mr R was driving the car under his wifes policy of insurance. When Mr R reported the 
incident to Covea he said that he was not making a claim and was reporting it for notification 
only. I dont think this means that the third party could not make a claim against him, or that 
Covea should not deal with it. When the third party contacted Covea and said they were 
making a claim for damage, they were effectively making a claim against Mr R as the driver. 
However, the policy of insurance meant that Covea were obliged to indemnify Mr R under 
Section 1 of the policy against the cost of any damage caused. 
The terms of the policy at Section 17 allowed Covea to take over conduct of the claim on 
behalf of Mr R and deal with it as they saw fit. They did not require his consent to do so. Mr 
Rs account of the incident meant that Covea admitted liability. I do not think this was 
unreasonable. The other car was parked and unoccupied when contact was made. Whilst it 
is not my role to determine liability, I can consider whether the Coveas decision on liability 
was arrived at in a fair and reasonable manner. I think that it was. Covea then went on to 
investigate the value of the claim. They instructed their own engineer to examine the 
damage to the third partys car to ensure that the claim was not excessive. Again, I think this 
was fair.
I am therefore satisfied that Covea were obliged to deal with the claim under the contract of 
insurance and that they dealt with it in a fair and reasonable manner. I do not think that 
Covea has done anything wrong. Whilst I suspect that Mr R will be disappointed by my 
decision, I hope that he understands the reasons for it.My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint and do not require Covea Insurance plc to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman