DRN-2103852
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way hes been treated by Unum Limited and its decision to decline 
his claim.
What happened
Mr S had an income protection policy with Unum, provided by his employer. He began 
experiencing problems at work and became unwell and unable to work in July 2019. Mr S 
made a claim under his policy but this was declined. 
Mr S said that Unum unfairly declined his claim because it assessed his capability to work on 
a role he was not employed to do. Mr S highlighted there were key differences between the 
role Unum thought he was employed for and his actual role. Mr S said Unum didnt fully 
explain its rationale for declining his claim and he had concerns it shared personal 
information with his employer without his consent. Mr S would like Unum to reconsider his 
claim with the view to paying him full benefit because hes suffering with mental health 
problems which impair his ability to return to work.
 
Unum said that although it initially considered Mr S claim against a different occupation, it 
was satisfied that the declination was correct. It said that both roles were sedentary and 
therefore made little difference to its decision. Unum said that Mr S didnt meet the policy 
term for incapacity and so no benefit was payable. 
Our investigator agreed with Unum. She said that although Mr S was signed off by his GP 
due to work-related stress, it wasnt enough to persuade her that he was unable to complete 
the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation, as described under the policy. 
She further explained that stress isnt considered an illness and that Unum declined his 
claim fairly on that basis. She also found no evidence to suggest that Unum had shared his 
personal information without his consent. 
Mr S disagreed with her findings. He said the investigator didnt consider all the arguments 
hed presented and that there was enough evidence to support that he was unable to work 
due to stress, anxiety and depression. And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its clear that Mr S has been through a very tough time throughout this ordeal. Some of what 
hes experienced is unsettling. There are several work-related issues, which I wont list here 
as I need to maintain Mr S anonymity, but Im satisfied they would cause health-related 
problems for most people. So, I think its understandable that Mr S has presented his 
complaint in such a comprehensive and articulate manner. 
But those issues are between Mr S and his employer  and not the insurer. Im aware that 
there is on-going legal action to address these issues and so it would not be appropriate for 
me to comment on any part of the problems Mr S experienced with his employer. 
My role is to decide if Unums decision to decline Mr S claim was fair as this is part of its 
obligations to the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
Having carefully reviewed everything thats been provided I think Unum declined Mr S claim 
fairly because it assessed the claim against the policy terms, in particular, whether he met 
the definition of incapacity. To be clear, the policy defines incapacity as;
(1) Beginning immediately after the first 2 years following the completion of the 
deferred period, if 
 
(a)Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness 
or injury to perform the material and substantial duties of his 
insured occupation, and 
 
(b) the member is unable by reason of illness or injury to follow any 
occupation with any employer for which he is reasonably fitted by 
reason of training, education or experience, 
 
then the member is incapacitated. 
The reason Ive highlighted this is because the policy requires Mr S to be unable to work, by 
reason of illness. Im persuaded that the problems Mr S experienced at work are what 
caused him to feel unwell and ultimately led him to take time off. Mr S said he was being 
bullied due to what he described as whistle blowing. Mr S said he was left exposed and felt 
vulnerable as a result of this action because he was left unprotected after raising his 
concerns. 
Im satisfied that Mr S wasnt suffering with a health-related condition during the initial stages 
of his absence because his FIT notes say he was suffering with work-related stress  
caused by his present situation at work. The medical evidence Ive seen supports this and 
Mr S problems with his employer are well documented throughout the life of this claim. So 
Im persuaded his stress was caused by circumstances at work rather than a health 
condition. 
In March 2020, it was mentioned by Mr S private GP that he was suffering with depression 
and anxiety. There was also a comment that this had been the case since September the 
previous year. But this is perhaps to be expected, given the backdrop of the on-going work 
problems which culminated in him being signed off work from July 2019. 
Unums reason for declining Mr S case is because its essentially said that the work-related 
issues have caused him to become unwell and that theres no benefit payable for that 
reason. I think this is fair because Im persuaded its most likely Mr S would be capable of 
working and fulfilling the material duties of his occupation, should the work-related problems 
not exist. I think this is further supported by Mr S psychiatrists comments that classified him 
as low risk with a reasonably good prognosis after assessing the wider circumstances of 
surrounding his claim. 
Mr S also supported this by saying that he would consider returning to work, provided his 
employer made it safe to for him to do so. And so, I think its difficult to say that Mr S fulfils 
the definition of incapacity described under his policy, because hes not incapacitated by way 
of illness, to the extent where he cannot follow any occupation. The medical evidence is 
persuasive enough to suggest his symptoms are triggered and amplified by his work-related issues. And therefore, Im satisfied Unum has declined his claim fairly because he does not 
meet the policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman