DRN-4505363
The complaint
Mr B complains Volvo Car Financial Services UK Limited (VCFS) supplied him with a car 
that he believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2022, Mr B entered into a 49 month personal contract purchase agreement 
(PCP) for a new car. The cars cash price was around £61,000. Mr B made an advance 
payment of around £11,700. He was required to make monthly payments of £675 with an 
optional final payment of around £27,300. The total amount payable under the agreement 
was over £71,600.
Within days of acquiring the car, Mr B reported issues with the cars paintwork to the 
dealership. He said there were swirls within the paintwork and a dent. As a gesture of 
goodwill (without admission of liability), the dealership agreed to contribute £200 for the 
repair and said Mr B would be required to pay the £150 shortfall. He complained to VCFS.
VCFS said to resolve the complaint they would be willing to pay the shortfall and also pay 
£100 compensation to Mr B for the trouble and upset caused. 
In February 2023, the car was repolished. Around May 2023, Mr B reported the swirl marks 
within the paintwork remained. He said as the weather had gotten brighter, the marks were 
visible. He referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint was upheld. She said the car was supplied 
brand new but had issues with the paintwork. She believed the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. Based on the pictures provided by Mr B she wasnt satisfied the repair in February 
2023 fixed the issue meaning it failed. She concluded VCFS should allow Mr B to reject the 
car. She also outlined a number of things they should do to put things right such as refund 
the deposit, refund any overpayments, collect the car, etc. 
Broadly speaking Mr B accepted the findings. However VCFS disagreed. In summary they 
said:
- The swirl marks werent present when Mr B took delivery of the car. The marks 
wouldve been evident even if the weather was overcast;
- All new cars are painted as part of a production line and in the same way, if this was 
an inherent manufacturing fault, it would be present in other cars but theyve received 
no other complaints;
- The pictures provided by Mr B werent taken from the day of supply;
- Its possible these swirl marks were caused by Mr B when he washed the car, its 
consistent with a manual wash;
- The dealership arranged a repair to be carried out in February 2023, if Mr B wasnt 
happy with the work he couldve complained sooner;
- This is a cosmetic issue which is most likely to have happened after Mr B took 
possession of the car.
In November 2023, I issued my provisional decision outlining my intentions not to uphold this 
complaint. I said:
Mr B acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. VCFS was the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the 
supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that, under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage. The quality of goods includes other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. 
In this case, Mr B was supplied with a brand-new car. The CRA says things like appearance 
and finish and freedom from minor defects are relevant aspects when considering the quality 
of goods. I think a reasonable person would expect a brand new car that cost in excess of 
£61,000 would have paintwork finished to a very high standard and for the car to be free 
from minor defects. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, there are no photographs of the swirl marks Mr B initially 
reported after acquiring the car. In the absence of the same, there is insufficient evidence for 
me to reasonably say there was a fault with the paintwork and that meant the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at supply. 
However I can see the dealership agreed to contribute to the cost for a repolish in light of Mr 
Bs concerns and VCFS agreed to pay the shortfall and some compensation. For the above 
reasons, I dont find they werent obliged to do so but its clear they wanted to resolve 
matters for Mr B so I cant say VCFS acted unfairly. 
From my understanding, a couple of months after the repolish, Mr B said the swirls in the 
paintwork remained. He has provided photographs of the car taken around that time and Ive 
carefully reviewed the same. Having done so, its difficult to identify the swirl marks he is 
referring to. This is because the photographs were taken in high levels of sunlight and there 
is a lot of reflection including that of the cars surroundings. In some close up photos, there 
appears to be marks however its hard to decipher whether this is swirls in the paintwork 
itself, scuffs, water blemishes or reflections. 
I note VCFSs comments that as a new car it wouldve been painted as part of a production 
line. To my mind, presumably this is done using some sort of spray tool and/or method to 
ensure an evenness and consistency of the paint applied. Theres nothing to suggest its 
done by hand or in a swirling motion so Im inclined to agree with VCFSs comments that if 
swirl marks are present, this could be caused by something else, such as a manual wash of 
a car using a circular motion technique. I find this to be plausible especially as there is a 
suggestion Mr B reported these issues after having washed the car. I wish to make it clear Im not definitively saying Mr B has caused it, I accept his comments he has owned and 
washed cars for a long period of time. However if there are issues with the paintwork 
including swirl marks, it may be caused by something else such as the way the car has been 
washed or through general use of it. 
Ive also thought about when Mr B complained the second time. Given his earlier concerns 
and the resulting repolish in February 2023, I find it wouldve been reasonable for him to 
have checked the car to make sure no marks remained and if they did, to report it sooner 
than he did. On balance I believe if such marks were present and they were an inherent 
manufacturing fault, they wouldve been visible irrespective of the weather conditions. 
However there is no evidence he did and it would appear he used the car for a couple of 
months before raising the issue again. 
Upon doing so, I note from emails he was asked to bring the car back to the dealership so 
they could look at it but I cant see Mr B done so. He said this was because he had already 
referred the complaint to our service. Although he wasnt obliged to do so, this was an 
opportunity for the dealership to address his concerns, see if the marks were present and if it 
was a manufacturing fault. I consider that was a fair request by the dealership. 
Taking everything into account, I dont find Ive been provided with sufficient or persuasive 
evidence for me to conclude there was an inherent manufacturing fault in the cars 
paintwork. Overall I find the car was of satisfactory quality at supply therefore I dont intend 
to say VCFS  should allow Mr B to reject the car as hes requested. I dont believe VCFS 
need to do anything further to settle this complaint.
Response to the provisional
VCFS accepted the findings. Mr B disagreed, in summary he said:
- The swirl marks wouldve only been present in sunlight not in overcast weather 
conditions. Had he seen the marks at collection, he wouldve reported it immediately;
- The damage is likely to have been caused by the dealership who was rushing to 
provide the car on the day of collection. They may have used a cloth with an abrasive 
substance in preparing the car. It may have also been caused by other external 
factors;
- He never said the marks were inherent manufacturing faults;
- He doesnt believe the car was looked under ultraviolet light as alleged by the 
dealership;
- The photographs show uniform swirl marks which was caused by a mechanical 
polisher, not done caused by manual action;
- The car was supposed to have a paint protection which wouldve prevented such 
marks. Meaning the marks were there before it was applied or it was never applied to 
the car to begin with;
- The dealership agreeing to the repair should be considered an admission of liability;
- After the repair, the dealership had never offered to relook at the cars paintwork;
- He had received a quote for £875 to rectify the issue and if VCFS are willing to cover 
this cost, he would accept this as a resolution. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their prompt responses. Ive carefully considered Mr Bs further 
submissions and photos. I wont comment on each one individually but I can reassure both 
parties, Ive carefully thought about them. 
Based on the further pictures provided by Mr B, they are clearer and I can see the marks he 
is referring to. However I remain on the opinion that there is insufficient evidence for me to 
reasonably say they were present at supply or caused by the dealership (whether by 
abrasive substances or a mechanical polisher) as he alleges. 
For some of the points hes raised, Ive already commented on them in my provisional 
decision so I wont repeat them again. But for those not previously raised, having considered 
them fully, I find there isnt enough evidence to support his position therefore my overall 
opinion remains unchanged. So it follows I wont be asking VCFS to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman