DRN-2044061
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society has calculated interest in relation to 
his savings account.
What happened
Mr F has a savings account with Nationwide which pays interest annually. Based on the 
balance of the account throughout the course of the 2019, Nationwide calculated that no 
interest was due that year.
Mr F complained to Nationwide about this. Nationwide said it hadnt done anything wrong as, 
because of the way it calculates interest, no interest was payable. However, it did pay Mr F 
£20 to recognise the upset caused by delays in the handling of his complaint.
Mr F then asked our service to look into his complaint. He said Nationwides approach to 
interest was unfair and that other business would round up interest, if the amount due was 
over half of one penny  which he thinks was due here. So, he believes that Nationwide 
have rounded down interest. He also said Nationwide had acknowledged that hed accrued 
over half of one penny, when hed queried this.
One of our investigators looked into matters for Mr F. She didnt agree with Mr F that 
Nationwides policy was to always round down interest. Nationwide has said, and she 
accepted, that it rounded amounts to the nearest whole penny. In terms of the calculation of 
interest, after looking into this she didnt think Nationwide had made a mistake. She shared 
details of Nationwides calculations with Mr F as part of her opinion and said that she hadnt 
seen anything to show Nationwide had indicated this was incorrect to Mr F.
Mr F did not agree with the investigators findings and still considered that Nationwide had 
made a mistake and that the account balance meant he shouldve earned interest in 2019.
As Mr F did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has said that Nationwide does not follow standard industry practice and rounds down 
interest, even if the amount earned is over half of one penny. Nationwide has said it rounds 
interest to the nearest whole penny.
How a business chooses to calculate interest is a matter for its commercial judgement. Our 
service is not a regulator and we can not require a business to change its processes, even if 
they differ from its competitors. So, in the event that Nationwide did round down interest, 
while Id expect it to make this clear to its customers, I couldnt require it to change this.
But based on what Ive seen I dont think Nationwide does round down. Nationwide has 
provided evidence, showing how it calculated the amount due on Mr Fs account, to support 
its statement that it rounds to the nearest pence. And based on what Ive seen, I think it does 
use the method it has said.
Mr F has calculated that he shouldve been paid some interest on his savings account. This 
was based on it having a credit balance of £1 for over half a year. So, with the interest rate 
on the account being 1.1%, he thinks he shouldve earned over half of one penny, which 
should have been rounded up. And I can understand Mr Fs point, as based on the 
straightforward calculation he has set out, he appears correct.
However, Nationwide has shown that it calculates interest slightly differently to this. From 
what it has provided our service I understand it works out interest on a credit balance from 
the date it is credited to savings until the end of the relevant interest period, in this case the 
year, on the assumption the money will remain on deposit for that entire period. This figure is 
rounded to the nearest penny and recorded as accrued interest.
If however the balance is then withdrawn, it works out the interest to be deducted to account 
for this withdrawal. This is calculated from the date it is withdrawn until the end of the 
relevant interest period  again here the year. This figure is also then rounded to the nearest 
penny. This rounding occurs before it is deducted or offset. The deduction is then removed 
from the accrued amount. The rounding prior to deduction is not accounted for in Mr Fs 
calculation and I think this is why a discrepancy exists.
I know Mr F feels strongly about this and I can understand why, from the method of 
calculation he has used, he thinks that he is owed interest on this account. But Nationwide 
hasnt, from what Ive seen, said that it uses the method Mr F has  although I do agree it 
wouldve been preferable if it had taken the time to explain things more clearly. 
That being said, Ive reviewed the calculations used by Nationwide in relation to Mr Fs 
account. And taking account of how it calculates interest, based on what Ive seen, I think 
Nationwide is correct that no interest is due. I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Nationwide has treated Mr F differently to other account holders. So, I cant say it has acted 
unreasonably.
Mr F has said that Nationwide acknowledged in discussions with him that he was due 
interest. I can understand why this wouldve been upsetting and confusing in the 
circumstances, although Ive havent seen any evidence to support this being said. In any 
event though, as I dont think it has made a mistake in its calculations, given that Nationwide 
made a goodwill payment of £20 to Mr F previously in respect of how his complaint was 
handled, I dont think it needs to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Ben StokerOmbudsman