DRN-2926205
The complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (VW) turned down his 
claim on his mechanical breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S said a warning light appeared on his dashboard, so he took his car to a garage to 
inspect the fault. The garage said there was a fault with the turbo actuator, and it needed 
replacing. Mr S contacted VW to claim on his policy. 
VW looked into the claim and turned it down. It said the fault code recorded showed the fault 
as occurring before the policy started. Mr S didnt agree, he said the fault light had only just 
come on and hed taken it straight to the garage to be checked. As Mr S didnt agree he 
complained. 
VW reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It referred to one of its technicians who said 
the initial fault would have shown as sporadic and because of this the warning light 
wouldnt have come on. However, when the fault became static it would cause the warning 
light to come on. VW said while the warning light may not have come on it didnt change the 
fact the fault occurred before the policy started. Mr S didnt think this was fair and referred 
his complaint here. He said hed had to pay £321.49 to fix his car as VW had turned down 
his claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
while the fault may have originally occurred before the policy started, she didnt think it was 
fair and reasonable to turn down Mr Ss claim if he hadnt become aware of the fault until 
after the policy had been taken out. VW didnt agree, it said the fault code showed it as 
occurring before the policy started and therefore meant it wasnt covered. 
As VW disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions which VW has relied upon to turn down this claim says
We will not pay for repair or replacement if the fault causing the component failure or 
damage existed before your Extended Warranty came into effect.
Ive considered this exclusion and looked to see if VW have applied it in a fair and 
reasonable way. In this particular case Im not persuaded it has. I say this because I think it 
would only be fair and reasonable to turn down a claim for a fault which existed before the 
policy came into effect if the policyholder knew, or ought reasonably to have known about a 
fault.
In this particular case VW hasnt shown why Mr S would, or should, have been aware of the 
fault before the policy started. So, while its not in dispute the fault code is recorded before 
the policy started, Mr S said he wasnt aware of it as the warning light hadnt come on. Im 
persuaded by his testimony about the warning light and this is support by VWs engineer 
confirming it wouldnt have come on until the fault became static. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded VW have applied this exclusion in a fair and reasonable way 
It therefore follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable for VW to rely on it to turn down 
Mr Ss claim. To put things right I think VW shouldnt use this exclusion to turn down Mr Ss 
claim and should reimburse the amount he paid for fix the fault, £321.49. It should also add 
8% simple interest to this amount to compensate him for not having the money. VW should 
calculate this from the date Mr S paid for the repair until the date it makes payment. 
    
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Volkswagen Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft to pay Mr S £321.49, plus 8% simple interest 
on this amount, calculated from the date Mr S paid the invoice until the date it makes 
payment. 
If Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman