DRN-3938821
The complaint
Mr E and Miss B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt remind them 
that their fixed interest rate was ending on their mortgage and of their ability to re-mortgage 
three months ahead of maturity. As such they say they missed the opportunity to secure a 
better deal sooner before interest rates increased.
What happened
Mr E and Miss B are mortgage customers of Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). Their 
mortgage was fixed on an interest rate of 1.99% until 31 October 2022. Thereafter their 
mortgage would revert to Halifaxs Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
Halifax wrote to Mr E and Miss B on 1 October 2022 to remind them that their fixed rate was 
coming to an end and that their new monthly payments would change from November 2022.
On expiry of their deal, Mr E and Miss B re-mortgaged to a new three-year fixed interest 
deal. Their new rate is fixed at 3.69% until 31 January 2026.
Mr E and Miss B complained that Halifax didnt provide sufficient notice that their rate was 
ending. They say that they should have been reminded that they could have fixed a new 
interest rate three months ahead of maturity. Had this happened they would have been able 
to secure a lower interest rate at that time. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response to their complaint, Mr E and Miss B came to our service. 
An investigator looked into things and explained why he didnt think Halifax had got things 
wrong. He didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr E and Miss B remained 
unhappy and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into 
account the relevant law, regulations, and good industry practice, when reaching my 
decision. 
In line with the relevant mortgage regulations set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
in the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB), there are 
certain rules that lenders must adhere to. 
The relevant sections of the rules state that a lender must provide clear, fair and not
misleading information about the terms of the mortgage. Lenders must also give customers 
reasonable notice in advance of their payment amount changing. 
While I do accept it can be considered good practice for lenders to write to their customers in 
advance of their fixed rate deal ending, reminding them of their options to explore rates 
sooner, there is nothing in the mortgage regulations that says a lender must do this. 
In relation to the regulatory obligations Halifax was required to adhere to, Im satisfied it did 
meet the relevant requirements. 
The 2017 mortgage offer clearly explained the interest rate applicable to Mr E and Miss Bs
mortgage  that this would be fixed until 31 October 2022 and then revert to Halifaxs SVR.
So, at the point the mortgage was taken, Halifax provided Mr E and Miss B with clear 
information about their interest rate and what would happen with the interest rate once their 
fixed term ended. The annual statements sent to Mr E and Miss B also set out the interest 
rate applicable to their mortgage and when their fixed interest rate ends.
So, when taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that Halifax provided Mr E and Miss B 
with clear, fair and not misleading information about the terms of the mortgage and the 
conditions of their fixed rate product - and so it fulfilled its obligations in that respect.
Halifax also wrote to Mr E and Miss B on 1 October 2022, one month before their monthly 
payment amount was due to change upon potential reversion to the SVR. So again, Halifax 
met the necessary obligation by sending a notification of the upcoming payment changes. 
Mr E and Miss Bs complaint however is that Halifax ought to have written to them sooner 
giving them the option of securing a new interest rate in advance of maturity.
It appears from Halifaxs contact notes that Mr E said he was aware of their ability to explore 
new interest rates three months ahead of expiry and I can see that theyve been through the 
re-mortgage process with Halifax on previous occasions before. In their opinion its the 
lenders responsibility to remind customers of this option as it shouldnt be up them to 
remember and actively check this themselves.
Mr E and Miss B also say that they were previously told that it was because they werent 
signed up to receiving marketing material from Halifax that they werent sent a reminder 
letter sooner, and that isnt fair. Halifax has confirmed to our service that isnt the case. Its 
process is to write to all their customers one month before their rate matures, so Mr E and 
Miss B havent been treated differently to other customers.
For reasons Ive explained, Halifax has met the requirements as set out in the regulations. 
Theres nothing in the rules that say it must specifically write to its customers in advance of 
their rate maturing to offer re-mortgage options ahead of time. And for that reason, even if 
Mr E and Miss B were told that it was due to their marketing preferences that they didnt 
receive such letter, that isnt enough for me to uphold this complaint or suggest that Halifax 
should honour a backdated rate switch. Its also not unreasonable for the nature of 
marketing material to change from time to time and there may be occasions when Halifax 
choses to alter the nature of letters it sends to its customers, but at the very least its 
expected to keep customers informed and updated as per the minimum requirements set out 
in the regulations  which it has done. 
For reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Halifax has acted in accordance with the relevant 
rules and regulations and Ive seen nothing to suggest its treated Mr E and Miss B unfairly. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr E and Miss B, but Ive seen nothing that 
suggest this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman