DRN-4036258
The complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank plc gave him incorrect information about his mortgage, and 
didnt keep a record of his meeting with the mortgage adviser when this happened.
What happened
Mr T says he was given wrong information about the amount hed need to overpay each 
month to repay his mortgage by his retirement date. He says this happened during a 
meeting with a mortgage adviser in 2012. 
Our investigator said that this part of Mr Ts complaint is outside our jurisdiction and so we 
cant look into it. Mr T agreed wed proceed on the basis wed only look into the second part 
of his complaint.  
The second part of Mr Ts complaint is that TSB failed to record his meeting with the 
mortgage adviser in 2012. He said it failed in its duty of care and breached his data rights, 
resulting in his complaints being rejected.
TSB said it had found notes that indicate Mr T spoke to an adviser in January and December 
2012 and quotes/illustrations were produced. These are no longer available.
Our investigator said overpayments are discretionary. That meant there was no regulatory 
requirement for a discussion about this to be recorded and retained by TSB. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said hes been complaining for years and these documents should 
have been reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how frustrating this matter is for Mr T. But for me to uphold his complaint Id 
need to find that TSB has done something wrong.
TSB says its records indicate that illustrations/quotes were issued in January and December 
2012. This suggests Mr T discussed possible changes to the terms and conditions of his 
mortgage with a mortgage adviser. As Mr T didnt proceed with the changes, TSB wasnt 
required to retain these records. 
Mr T could make overpayments voluntarily, without any changes to the terms of his 
mortgage. TSB wasnt required to keep a record of a discussion about voluntary over 
payments in 2012. 
If Mr T discussed overpayments with a mortgage adviser in 2012, TSB wasnt required to 
keep a record of that discussion. I cant fairly find it made an error when it didnt do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman