DRN-1709165
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
The policy was sold by Marks & Spencer. But Allianz has taken responsibility for the sale 
and by extension this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Allianz in this decision.
What happened
Miss C bought the PPI policy at the same time she took out a personal reserve account in 
1998. It gave her accident, sickness and unemployment protection and some life cover. Miss 
C recalls the sale took place on the phone, Allianz is unable to confirm where or how the 
sale took place.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. Miss C disagreed with 
this view so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, I have 
based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how Allianz sold PPI at the 
time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz needed to make sure it gave Miss C an option to purchase the PPI and Miss C had to 
agree to buy it. There is limited information available in this case but thats not surprising as 
the sale was so long ago. Miss C says she applied on the phone, there was no mention of 
PPI, and she never gave her agreement.
Based on how it sold PPI at the time, Allianz says it was most likely an application form was 
completed by Miss C. It no longer has her form but thats not unreasonable given how long 
ago the sale was. It has provided a sample form though and this shows she would have had 
to select PPI for it to be applied to her account. And there was nothing on the form that I 
think could reasonably have led her to believe it was mandatory.
I have thought carefully about Miss Cs comments, but I also have to consider how long ago 
the sale was and how that might impact what she recalls. On balance, without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly conclude Allianz didnt make it clear the PPI was optional and Miss C 
didnt agree to take it out.I dont think Allianz recommended the PPI to Miss C. This means it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it still needed to give Miss C enough clear information so that she could 
decide for herself whether or not she wanted the policy.
Its possible that the information Allianz gave Miss C wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But even with better information I still think Miss C would have taken out the PPI.
I say this because Miss C was eligible for the policy. And she doesnt seem to be affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover and which might have made it more difficult to 
make a successful claim, such as unusual employment circumstances or a pre-existing 
medical condition. The policy was apparently affordable and competitively priced.
Miss C told us she would have received six months full pay and six months half pay if she 
was sick from her employers. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to this, covering 
15% of the outstanding monthly balance on the account, until Miss C returned to work, or the 
outstanding balance was cleared. So I think the PPI would have been useful if Miss C 
couldnt work or lost her job. 
So overall, I dont think better information would have changed Miss Cs mind about the PPI.
It follows I dont think she lost out because of anything Allianz did wrong. 
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman