DRN-2916716
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide Building Society when 
opening a joint account.
What happened
Mr K is an existing Nationwide member. But he needed to open a joint account with an 
elderly relative. The account opening process was started on-line. But to complete the 
process, Nationwide asked to see proof of identification (ID) for Mr Ks relative as she was a 
new member. 
Mr K attended a local branch with his relatives ID. But as his elderly relative wasnt present, 
he was told it couldnt be accepted. He was told to send the ID via the post.
Mr K was unhappy with this. He didnt think Nationwides letter made it clear that his relative 
needed to attend the branch in person. He also didnt see the difference between the 
documentation being provided through the post and him (a long-standing member) providing 
it in branch on his relatives behalf. So, he complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said  while the letter was addressed to both 
parties, it referred to ID being required for Mr Ks relative. It explained it couldnt accept ID in 
branch from anyone other than the new member as, in doing so, it would be confirming it 
had identified the member in person when it hadnt. But when a new member is unable to 
attend a branch it said it could accept original ID documentation through the post. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr K referred his complaint to this service. In doing so, Mr K 
added that he had to queue outside both the branch and the post office in the cold (due to 
the pandemic). He pointed out that had his elderly relative attended the branch she would 
have found standing in the cold impossible.  
One of our investigators looked into the matter. But she didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong. She said it was Nationwides normal procedure to only accept ID in branch 
from the person it needed to identify. And it wasnt our role to tell Nationwide to change its 
procedures. She acknowledged Mr Ks point about there being no difference when 
documentation is sent by post. But she thought this was an exception Nationwide was 
making due to pandemic  as not everyone was able to leave their home. So, she didnt 
uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K didnt accept this outcome. He maintained that Nationwides letter was ambiguous, and 
he said hed been inconvenienced having to visit a branch during the pandemic. So, Mr Ks 
complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I know Mr K 
will feel disappointed with this. I can see how strongly he feels that Nationwides letter wasnt 
clear and that it should have acted differently given his individual circumstances. But I can 
only uphold Mr Ks complaint if I thought Nationwide had done something significantly wrong 
that had caused Mr K a financial loss or material distress and inconvenience. But I dont 
think it did. Ill explain why.
Nationwide has confirmed that its normal procedure is to identify new members in branch. 
As Mr K has mentioned himself, I think this is most likely a requirement to prevent fraud. So, 
I dont think Nationwide is doing anything wrong by having such procedures in place.
But I understand the crux of Mr Ks complaint to be that he feels Nationwides letter didnt 
make it clear that his relative was required to attend the branch in person. So, he attended 
the branch on her behalf and was inconvenienced as a result. So, Ive looked at the letter 
Nationwide sent.
Having done so, I can see the letter doesnt specifically state Mr Ks relative needed to 
attend the branch in person. But I think its clear that the ID was required for Mr Ks relative. 
The letter also says that ID is required so Nationwide can double check people are who they 
say they are and that they live where they say the live. Overall, Im persuaded the letter 
says enough to indicate it was the new member that needed to visit the branch. But Im 
satisfied it was clear that ID could be provided through the post as an alternative. 
I, like the investigator, acknowledge what Mr K has said about there being no difference 
between him attending the branch on his relatives behalf than the ID being provided through 
the post. But its not our role to tell a business how to run its business or change its 
procedures. Nationwide has explained, when viewing documents in branch its process is to 
verify that it has seen the new member in person, and it wouldnt have been able to do that 
in this case. So, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong here. 
I also acknowledge that Mr K had to stand outside the branch in the cold. But as he has 
pointed out this was due to the pandemic. Many businesses brought in social distancing 
measures  including limiting the number of people inside a business premises, as a result 
of the pandemic and the associated lockdown. And this caused queues outside. But these 
measures were intended to protect customers and staff in line with pandemic guidelines. So, 
I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong here either. 
I note Mr K has said that his relative would have found it impossible to stand in the cold had 
she attended the branch. But his relative wasnt required to attend the branch if she was 
unable to do so. Im satisfied that Nationwide made it clear it would accept her ID by post. 
And the account was opened when sufficient ID was provided through the post.  
 
Overall, I dont think Nationwide did anything sufficiently wrong that caused Mr K a financial 
loss or material distress and inconvenience to the extent that compensation is warranted. 
So, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, I wont be asking Nationwide to take further action in 
respect of this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman