DRN-1698836
 
complaint
Mrs K complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to it as the seller in this 
decision.
background
Mrs K took out a store card in 2003. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover her repayments on the card if she couldnt work. 
Mrs K says that the PPI wasnt mentioned to her. She says she wasnt given a choice about 
having it. 
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Ks complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs K disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs K applied for the store card in an application completed in store. AXA has supplied a 
copy of the application form. Theres a separate section titled protecting your account. It 
says, only sign this box if you require Account Cover. Mrs K signed in this box and signed 
the completed form. There were other additional products on the form offered in a similar 
way which Mrs K didnt select. 
Mrs K says that she just signed where she was shown to sign. I cant know with any certainty 
whether this was the case, but I think it was Mrs Ks responsibility to check what she was 
signing.
So, on balance, Im satisfied Mrs K bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it.
AXA didnt make a personal recommendation to Mrs K about the PPI so it didnt need to take 
reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave 
her all the information she needed to make her own decision. I dont think AXA did this well 
enough. For example, theres no mention of what the exact benefits were. 
But looking at Mrs Ks circumstances I dont think more information wouldve changed her 
mind about buying it. I think its likely Mrs K understood the policy would pay a benefit if she wasnt able to work. And as I think Mrs K chose to take out the PPI, it seems she was 
interested in this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Mrs K was affected by any of the terms which mightve made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances  so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs 
K.
Mrs K says she was entitled to some sick pay, and she didnt have any other means to meet 
her repayments if she wasnt working. As shed only worked for her employer for about 8 
months I dont think shed have been entitled to much, if any, redundancy pay. But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer  until she returned to 
work or the outstanding balance was paid off. So, I think the policy offered Mrs K a useful 
benefit.
On balance, I dont think Mrs K lost out as a result of anything AXA did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint, so it follows that AXA France IARD doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman