DRN-3637808
The complaint
Ms V complains that U K Insurance Limited (U K Insurance) found her to be at fault for an 
accident claim she was involved in, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Ms V was involved in a collision with a motor bike. She says the road 
conditions meant she had to pull to one side to allow oncoming traffic to pass. She then 
pulled out and heard a bump as the motorcyclist collided with her car. Ms V says he mustve 
seen that shed pulled in to allow an oncoming car to pass but decided to overtake anyway. 
Ms V says the angle of her car where she had pulled in meant she couldnt see the 
motorbike in her mirrors when she subsequently pulled back out. She says the motorcyclist 
came off the bike, presumably as a result of the collision. Ms V says a couple of passers-by 
were at the scene. She exchanged details with the motorcyclist and soon after he visited her 
at home to take photos of the damage to her car. 
Ms V says the motorcyclists mother accompanied him and suggested the scuff marks on 
her car demonstrated she was at fault for the accident. 
Ms V says she reported the accident to U K Insurance and to the police. She says in her 
view the third party was at fault. In April 2022 U K Insurance wrote to Ms V. It told her that 
following a review of the incident circumstances she would be held responsible for the 
collision. It explained any claim from the other party would be settled on the best possible 
terms. 
Ms V responded to U K Insurance to say she disagreed and asked it not to settle any claim 
but to report the matter to her with any evidence, for her to deal with. U K Insurance 
continued to deal with the complaint with Ms V as the at fault party. She submitted a 
complaint and the business responded in May 2022. It says its policy terms entitle it to settle 
the claim at it sees best. As such says it has settled the costs with the third party and is 
unable to withdraw the claim. 
Ms V didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. He says the policy terms allow U K Insurance to decide how to 
deal with the claim. He thought it had acted reasonably in how it assessed the claim based 
on the evidence available.  
Ms V didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Ms V, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My remit here is to consider whether U K Insurance handled this claim in a fair and 
reasonable manner. It isnt my role, or within the remit of this service to decide who was at 
fault for the accident. 
The terms of the policy under the General Conditions section say:
3. Claims procedure  Our rights and your obligations: 
We are entitled to: 
- take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your 
name, or in the name of any other person covered by this policy.
Most motor insurance policies include this term, or similar. It means U K Insurance has a 
contractual right to settle the claim how it chooses and doesnt need agreement or consent 
from Ms V. That said we still expect the business to act reasonably and make its decision 
based on the circumstances and facts of the matter. 
I have thought about whether U K Insurances handling of the claim was reasonable.
U K Insurance wrote to Ms V at the beginning of April 2022 telling her that in its experience 
she would be considered responsible for the collision. As a result, any claim it received 
would be dealt with on the best possible terms. 
Following Ms Vs complaint, U K Insurance wrote to her in May 2022 setting out its 
response. It says it received a witness report that holds her at fault for the accident and that 
damage had been caused to the third-partys motor bike. It refers to the policy terms that 
allow it to decide how to best deal with the matter, and says its unable to withdraw the claim 
as requested by Ms V. 
Ive read the witness statement U K Insurance refers to. This says the witness doesnt know 
any of the individuals involved in the accident. It says the driver believed to be at blame for 
the accident was the lady [Ms V] who was driving the car. The witness provided the 
registration and make of Ms Vs car in the statement. Ms V is described as having pulled her 
car into the side of the road and subsequently pulled out as the motorcyclist drove past  
causing the collision. 
From the records provided, the engineer who assessed the damage to the motor bike 
considered it was a total loss. 
I can see the third partys insurer thought Ms V was at fault for the collision. The third party 
recalled Ms V had left her indicator on for approximately seven seconds after the road was 
clear and hadnt moved. The third party proceeded past and says Ms V then pulled out 
without checking her mirrors causing the accident. 
As above, its not the role of this service to determine blame for an accident. Based on what I 
have seen U K Insurance has reasonably considered the available evidence. It decided that 
this indicated Ms V was at fault. In the circumstances I dont think this was an unreasonable 
conclusion. The witness statement places Ms V at fault and there are no other witness 
statements to consider. Ms V says she didnt see the third party in her mirrors and the 
collision occurred when she manoeuvred out, after having pulled over. 
I acknowledge Ms V holds strong views that the third party is at fault here. But the policy 
terms allow U K Insurance to handle this claim as it deems appropriate. I accept Ms V asked 
that she be allowed to handle any claim herself. But the business is obligated to deal with any claim relating to its policyholder, which is what it did here. Based on what I have seen I 
dont think U K Insurance has treated Ms V unfairly. 
The records provided confirm that U K Insurance settled the claim on a without prejudice 
basis. If she chooses Ms V may be able to pursue the matter further via the courts. 
Having considered all of this I dont think U K Insurance treated Ms V unfairly when handling 
the third-party claim under her policy. A claim has been registered appropriately against Ms 
V, which will impact on her no claims bonus. For the reasons Ive already stated this isnt 
something I can reasonably ask U K Insurance to change.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman