DRN-1922513
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc refused to initiate a chargeback in respect of card 
payments he made to an online investment company. 
What happened
Between May and December 2018 Mr S made a number of card payments in respect of 
online investments. He contacted TSB in May 2019 to ask it to seek refunds of those 
payments on the grounds that the services he had paid for hadn't been supplied. At around 
the same time he asked the merchant involved to close his trading account and send him the 
balance of the investment.
TSB asked Mr S to provide evidence of his claim against the investment business, but 
wasn't satisfied that it had enough to submit a chargeback claim. It also said that under the 
Visa chargeback rules, it would have had to submit its chargeback request within 120 days 
of the payment. That time limit had expired.  
Mr S referred the case to this service and one of our adjudicators considered it. He agreed 
with TSB that there was little evidence to support Mr S's claim and that it was reasonable not 
to submit a chargeback request. Mr S didn't accept the investigator's conclusions, however, 
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however come to broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Chargeback is a means of challenging certain card payments and resolving disputes arising 
from them. It's run by the card schemes - in this case Visa. Whilst a cardholder has no 
express right to demand that a card issuer submit a chargeback request, we generally take 
the view that it's good practice to do so where there's a reasonable prospect of success.
One of the reasons for submitting a chargeback request is where the merchandise or 
services that were paid for haven't been supplied. That's the reason Mr S says applies here. 
He says that the merchant didn't apply his funds to a trading account as it should have done.
TSB didn't consider it had enough evidence of this, and the account was no longer available 
for viewing once Mr S had closed it. I can understand why Mr S might not have been able to 
provide the evidence TSB asked for, since he was in effect being asked to prove that 
something didn't happen.
However, the service that was funded by the card payments wasn't, in my view, the 
investment of the funds or the return of the investment; it was the placing of those funds on 
the investment account. Mr S says that didn't happen.If the funds were to be placed on an investment account, however, I would expect that to be 
done as soon as they were received, or within a relatively short space of time after receipt. 
Chargeback requests where services aren't provided should usually be submitted within 120 
days. In this case, however, the last payment was made in December 2018, but Mr S didn't 
raise it with the bank until May 2019, after the time limit had expired. Longer time limits apply 
where a service is to be provided some time after payment (for example, travel or concerts), 
but I don't believe that applies here. It may be that the investment business was to provide 
other services to Mr S, but I don't believe they were to be funded directly by the card 
payments. The service paid for by the card payments was the crediting of the trading 
account. 
For these reasons, I don't believe TSB treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably by declining to 
submit a chargeback request. Had it done so, it's most unlikely that it would have been 
successful.  
My final decision
My final decision is that i don't require TSB Bank plc to take any further steps to resolve Mr 
S's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman