DRN-3661060
The complaint
Mr M complains about the repairs Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited carried out on his 
boiler following a claim on his home insurance policy.
References to Admiral in this decision include the agents who carried out the repairs.
What happened
Mr M had a home insurance policy with Admiral that included boiler emergency cover.
In February 2022, Mr M reported a boiler leak to Admiral, saying he had no heating or hot 
water. 
Admiral sent out an engineer, who reported a connection pipe leak and said various parts 
needed to be replaced. Admiral told Mr M the replacement parts would cost more than his 
policy limit of £500, so he would have to pay the excess if he wanted the boiler repaired. But 
Admiral also said it couldnt guarantee the repair would fix the problem or that other 
problems wouldnt be uncovered. Admiral said its recommendation was to replace the boiler 
(something Mr Ms policy didnt cover) but the choice was Mr Ms. 
Mr M chose to have the boiler repaired, so a second engineer replaced the parts. But once 
hed done this and pressured the boiler, he found a hairline crack in the heat exchanger 
mechanism. He said the boiler was beyond economic repair, turned it off and also issued a 
danger: do not use notice.
Mr M then got an engineer of his own to look at the boiler. He too found a fault in the heat 
exchanger mechanism. But he said it didnt involve danger to life, so the boiler could be left 
working with the water leak being managed.
Mr M complained to Admiral about what had happened, saying hed been left in a worse 
position after the repair than he was in before it. Admiral didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. But 
it offered to pay Mr Ms engineers costs up to his policy limit of £500 as a goodwill gesture 
(and I understand from Mr M that these have been paid). 
Mr M is unhappy with the overall outcome of his complaint, so hes brought it to us. The 
investigator who looked at it didnt think Admiral needed to do anything more. She said 
Admiral had tried, with Mr Ms agreement, to repair the boiler under the terms and conditions 
of Mr Ms policy but had found it was unsafe and uneconomic to repair. 
Mr M disagrees. He says Admirals actions caused stress to him and his partner and 
draining their heating and hot water system when the temperature outside was below zero 
was unjust. So Mr Ms complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The boiler emergency section of Mr Ms home insurance policy said if his heating or hot 
water system broke down completely, Admiral would arrange and pay for emergency work to 
be carried out to make a temporary repair of the damage. The policy gave Mr M cover of up 
to £500 for up to two claims a year. Mr Ms policy also said if the repair costs were over 
£500, hed have to pay the amount over that if he wanted any repairs done.
Ive listened to the call between Admiral and Mr M after the first engineers visit, when the 
fault with the boiler was discussed. Admirals call handler said it recommended replacing the 
boiler. He made it clear to Mr M what the cost of the repairs would be if Mr M chose to have 
the boiler repaired instead and that theyd be over the policy limit. The call handler was also 
clear its engineers wouldnt be able to warranty the repairs, or guarantee theyd fixed the 
problem, or that other problems wouldnt arise. Having been given this information, Mr M 
chose to get his boiler repaired. As Ive already noted, the second engineer Admiral sent out 
then found a hairline fracture in the heat exchanger mechanism. In his view, this made the 
boiler unsafe  hence the danger: do not use notice he issued.
Mr M has questioned why Admiral turned his boiler off when his engineer subsequently said 
it was safe to use. In his report, Mr Ms engineer confirmed there was a leak but that, when 
the pressure dropped, it could be replenished. He said the leak could become worse at any 
time and could cause further damage to the boiler but that it could be used even though it is 
leaking. He said hed left the boiler in operation while Mr M considered his options but how 
long it will continue to operate I cannot say.
Admirals engineers have reviewed Mr Ms engineers report. Admiral says it supports its 
view that replacing the boiler parts would not necessarily achieve a repair and the boiler 
condition suggests that this isn't economical to repair. As to the danger: do not use notice, 
Admiral says: 
based upon the contents of this notice it is difficult to see how the customer's own engineer 
has safely addressed this (he has made no comment on the warning notice at all) by 
reconnecting the sensor to allow the boiler to work. 
Admiral goes on to say we can only support our engineer in this; warning notices of this 
severity are not issued without due consideration.
Mr M wants Admiral to reimburse him the cost of the parts  around £240  that were over 
his £500 policy limit and pay for a new boiler. From the evidence I have, I dont think that 
would be a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint for the following reasons:
Mr Ms policy doesnt cover him for a replacement boiler.
Admiral made it clear to Mr M the repair might not work and its recommendation was 
to replace the boiler. Mr M chose to go ahead with the repair, despite Admirals 
advice. 
I havent seen anything to suggest it was unfair or unreasonable of Admiral to rely on 
its own engineers assessment that the boiler was beyond economic repair and 
wasnt safe to use. While Mr Ms own engineer recommissioned the boiler and left it 
running, I think its implicit in his report that a lasting repair couldnt be carried out 
(how long it will continue to operate I cannot say). Also, his report doesnt explain 
why, in his view, the boiler was safe to use and doesnt mention Admirals danger notice at all. 
Mr M also wants Admiral to pay him compensation for having to move his family out of their 
home because there was no heating or hot water, From internal notes Admiral has sent us, 
Mr M was offered alternative accommodation when he first notified Admiral of the fault but 
Mr M didnt take up the offer at that point. And I wouldnt have expected Admiral to offer it 
when the repair failed, given that its recommendation had been to replace the boiler. So, 
while I understand Mr M and his family found themselves in a distressing situation, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to require Admiral to compensate Mr M for this.
Ive looked at all of Mr Ms other comments on this complaint but they dont change my 
conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman