DRN-1951487
Complaint
Ms B says Bank of Scotland PLC (BOS) mis-sold her a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Ms B bought the PPI policy alongside a credit card in 2007 to help her with her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. But Ms B disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms B says that she was never told about the PPI and she didnt want it. But BOS says the 
optional nature of the PPI was made clear and only added to her account after shed agreed 
to take it.  
BOS has provided a copy of its internal records which show Ms B applied for her credit card 
and PPI over the internet. Its sent us a copy of her printed application form that was 
subsequently produced following her completion of the online screens. On the first page, 
there is a section for PPI (called Repayments Cover at the time) and this shows shed 
requested this to be added online. However, on the second page, there was another 
separate box for PPI, and customers had to again tick a box and sign to confirm they 
definitely wanted PPI. I can see this box has been ticked and signed by Ms B. I wouldve 
expected her to have looked over this form before signing it and confirming she wanted PPI. 
Although I have thought carefully about Ms Bs testimony, based on what Ive seen, I think 
its more likely the policy was presented as optional to Ms B and she agreed to take it 
knowing she had a choice. 
Both BOS and our adjudicator said BOS didnt recommend the policy to Ms B. I dont agree. 
There is a demands and needs statement that says, We are advising and making a 
recommendation to you after we have assessed your needs based on the information 
provided to us.  So BOS should have made sure the PPI was right for Ms B  and based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, she was eligible 
for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. She 
also seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Ms B was employed and didnt have any sick pay provided by her employer (other than 
potentially statutory sick pay). She also didnt have any savings that she couldve relied on to 
help her meet her repayments had she found herself unexpectedly out of work. And this 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay she mightve had for up to 12 months  so I 
think she couldve found it useful. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
So, I dont think this policy was mis-sold. Which means BOS doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But BOS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: 
BOS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because BOS didnt tell Ms B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman