DRN-3997991
The complaint
Ms B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has refused to refund 
the money she has lost following her falling victim to a scam.
Ms B is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Ms B 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Ms B found a friend on Snapchat was sharing an account named MoneyPlug 
(X).
The profile claimed to be able to help people obtain a mortgage. As Ms B was intending to 
buy her family home but didnt have enough money for a deposit this was of interest to her. 
X had posted reviews from other people that appeared to have benefited from Xs help. So, 
feeling confident Ms B messaged X via Snapchat.
X then contacted Ms B by telephone which gave her further confidence X was genuine. X 
explained he had been able to help people with their finance and mortgage requirements. 
And one method of doing this was by investing in Bitcoin.
X convinced Ms B that investing in Bitcoin would benefit her and because she had no 
savings to speak of also convinced her to take out a loan for the investment.
Ms B provided some personal information to X and X applied for a loan for her, in her name 
for £5,000. The loan was agreed and was credited to her account with Halifax.
Ms B attempted to transfer money several times to Binance, (a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange) on Xs instruction but her account was blocked. After Ms B spoke with Halifax 
several times her account was unblocked, and she was able to make payments.
Ms B made the following payments using her debit card to Binance and Remitly (A legitimate 
currency exchange) that were then forwarded to X:
1. 17 January 2022 - £4,000 - Binance
2. 17 January 2022 - £1,000 - Remitly
After making the payments X kept Ms B updated with her investment and gave personal 
reasons there was a delay. However, when Ms B tried to make a withdrawal from the 
investment, she was unable to. X had also blocked Ms B from Snapchat and when she 
called X she was diverted to voicemail.
Ms B found some information online that showed other people had been involved in a similar 
investment that turned out to be a scam. It became clear that Ms B had also been the victim 
of a scam.
Ms B has not been able to recover any of the payments she made in relation to the scam.
Our Investigator considered Ms Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Ms B 
disagreed she thought Halifax should have done more to protect her from the scam.
As Ms B disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Ms B and Halifax set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Halifax should 
refund any of the money Ms B has lost because of this scam.
Halifax was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Ms B made in relation to this 
scam to Binance and Remitly via debit card.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Ms B was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Ms B didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, she paid separate legitimate currency 
exchanges (Binance and Remitly). This is important because Halifax was only able to 
process chargeback claims against the merchants she paid (Binance and Remitly), not 
another party (such as X).
The service provided by Binance and Remitly would have been to convert or facilitate 
conversion of Ms Bs payments into cryptocurrency or another currency. Therefore, Binance 
and Remitly provided the service that was requested; that being the purchase of the 
currency.
The fact that the currency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Ms B paid. As Binance and 
Remitly provided the requested service to Ms B any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Ms B has accepted she authorised the payments that were made from her account with 
Halifax, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Ms B is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Halifax should have blocked the payments Ms B was making 
and discussed them with her. And if Halifax had stepped in, whether it would have been able 
to prevent the scam from taking place.Ms B attempted to make payments to Binance for £5,000 that Halifax did block. A call 
between Halifax and Ms B then took place. When asked about the payments Ms B was 
making, she said she had taken a course in trading cryptocurrency and that her brother-in-
law was guiding her through the process. She said she was not being pressured to make 
any payments. 
Ms B was also required to attend a Halifax branch for her account to be unlocked. Ms B was 
asked similar questions at the branch and gave similar answers. 
The answers Ms B gave to Halifax were not accurate and disguised the scam that was 
taking place. While I can appreciate Ms B was likely coached by X on what to say to Halifax, 
I dont think it was unreasonable that Halifax were unable to detect the scam meaning Ms 
Bs account was unlocked and she was able to make the two payments to Binance and 
Remitly.
Given the available evidence I dont think Halifax would have been reasonably aware a scam 
was taking place or have been able to prevent it. So, Halifax are not required to refund any 
of the payments Ms B made.
Ms B has explained that personal circumstances meant she was vulnerable at the time of 
the scam. While I can appreciate this may have been the case, I have not seen that Halifax 
would have been aware of her circumstances or that it had been asked to make any 
changes to accommodate Ms Bs needs.  So, this does not change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman