DRN-1319915
The complaint
Mr S complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) wrongly 
settled a claim a third party brought against Mr Ss motor insurance policy with Markerstudy 
following a collision for which Mr S says he wasnt responsible.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with Markerstudy. A third party (TP) notified 
Markerstudy that in April 2019 a car insured on Mr Ss policy had driven into their car, and 
then driven off without stopping or supplying any details. An independent witness had seen 
what happened and supplied a statement to TP. This confirmed that the damage to TPs car 
was caused by a car of the same make, description, and registration number as Mr Ss car.
When Markerstudy contacted Mr S about the incident he acknowledged that the car did 
operate around the location of the incident. He said he had spoken to the driver, who said he 
hadnt been involved in any incident. 
Markerstudy obtained an engineers report on the damage to TPs car. It also obtained video 
evidence from Mr S of his car, which showed some damage on the rear drivers side. Mr S 
said this was pre-existing damage which had been present when he bought the car.
On the basis of:
the statement from the independent witness,
the evidence of damage to TPs car, and
the damage to Mr Ss car which Markerstudy was unable to prove was pre-existing,
Markerstudy thought that if the claim proceeded to court it was likely to be judged in favour 
of TP.
So it settled TPs claim on the best terms it could, but on a without prejudice basis. This 
meant that Mr S was free to bring proceedings against TP at his own expense if he wished 
to do so. The claim was treated as a fault claim for the purposes of Mr Ss insurance record 
and no claims discount.
Mr S complained to Markerstudy. He said there wasnt any damage to his car consistent with 
the accident, and the way the witness described the accident wasnt credible. He thought a 
false claim had been made, and his car might have been cloned, with its registration number 
being applied to another car. Markerstudy didnt accept his complaint, so he complained to 
us. He said the damage on his car wasnt consistent with the damage to TPs car.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
based on the evidence provided to Markerstudy it was reasonable for it to accept TPs claim. 
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that:
from the video and photos he had supplied of the accident site, he thought it was 
difficult to see how the witness could have seen the accident as described, and 
recorded the particulars of Mr Ss car as it drove off without stopping;
from the description of the accident his car would have to have suffered front 
nearside corner damage, but the photos he had supplied of his car showed there was 
no such damage; and
he strongly believed the registration of his car had been cloned, as they had recently 
received speeding tickets for it while the car was in their possession.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt our role to decide definitively what happened in this incident  only the courts can do 
that  but whether in reaching its conclusions Markerstudy acted fairly and reasonably, and 
in accordance with the policy terms.
Mr Ss policy contained the following term in its general conditions:
E    We are entitled to take full control of any claim and we must be given whatever   
information and help we need. 
We can prosecute or defend any claim in your name.
We dont consider that such a term is inherently unfair. However, we will look to see that an 
insurer exercises it fairly and reasonably. 
When Mr S disputed that his car was involved in the incident, Markerstudy did take steps to 
investigate. From the damage to the two cars it thought they could have collided. And it was 
satisfied that the witness was independent and acceptable. So it thought it would be unable 
to defend the claim in court.
Mrs S has sought to cast doubt on the incident as described by the witness; but Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the witness wasnt independent and impartial.
He has also suggested that a cloned car may have been responsible. But if a cloned car was 
responsible, I would have expected Mr S to produce evidence of the actual whereabouts of 
his car at the time the incident occurred; no such evidence has been offered.
All in all, I dont think Markerstudy acted unreasonably in coming to the conclusion that, on 
the evidence available, it wouldnt be able to defend the claim in court. I note it settled the 
claim without prejudice which left it open to Mr S to institute his own proceedings against 
TP if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Markerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman