DRN-3321309
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Toyota Financial 
Services (UK) Plc trading as Lexus Financial Services (Toyota FS) wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr O acquired a new car via a 36-month hire purchase agreement with 
Toyota FS. He says that he noticed the car had a rattle as he was driving it home and he 
contacted the dealer about it straight away.
The car was returned to the supplying dealer in October 2020 for the issue to be 
investigated. The dealership fitted additional padding to the cars roof. Unfortunately, this 
only temporarily stopped the noise and it returned.
Mr O says he took the car back again to the dealership for a second time that month and 
further padding was added but again the issue wasnt rectified. Mr O contacted the supplying 
dealer and informed it that the rattling noise was still present. He says he was advised that 
because of lockdown the dealership wouldnt be able to assist for the time being because 
the investigation wasnt for emergency repairs or maintenance. 
Mr O kept the car but says the rattle remained and once lockdown had eased, he contacted 
the supplying dealership and the car was returned for investigation. In May 2021 the grab 
handle above the drivers door was replaced but the rattling was still present. Mr O says it is 
an intermittent fault that appears to be affected by the temperature.
In July 2021 the grab handle was again replaced and then, around two weeks later, the 
supplying dealership replaced the sunroof. Mr O says the rattle was temporarily fixed but 
returned and is still present.
Mr O complained to Toyota FS about the quality of the car. Toyota FS didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said no issues had been raised with them within the first six months from the 
inception of the agreement. Toyota FS said that were would now be issues arising from wear 
and tear.
Mr O disagreed with Toyotas response and made a complaint to this service. Mr O said that 
he had raised the issue of the rattle from the first day he had the car. He also said there had 
been multiple attempts to fix the car, but the rattle remained, and he wanted to now reject it.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. She said she was 
satisfied on the evidence provided that the car had been faulty at the point of supply to Mr O 
and despite repeated attempts to repair remained so. Our investigator said it would be fair 
for Mr O to now be able to reject the car, be reimbursed his deposit/part-exchange 
contribution and for the agreement to be cancelled.
As Mr O had been able to use the car, our investigator said that it would be unfair for Toyota 
FS to reimburse any of the payments he had made under the agreement. But she said 
dealing with the faulty car had caused Mr O distress and inconvenience and she thought that 
compensation of £50 to him would be fair.
Mr O agreed with our investigators view, but Toyota FS disagreed. It said that although it 
agreed with the compensation payment it would be unreasonable for Mr O to now reject the 
car as he had been able to have full use of it since acquiring it; that he hadnt raised his 
complaint with it until after the first six months from supply; the car had been fully inspected 
before delivery to Mr O and had met the required standard; that all repairs had been carried 
out under the warranty and due to the passage of time the car would have incurred wear and 
tear and would need to be maintained and repaired in line with the agreements terms and 
conditions. 
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr O is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Toyota FS Is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the Act) there is an implied term that when goods 
are supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was brand new and would be expected to be fault free. It isnt disputed by the 
supplying dealer that Mr O has repeatedly raised with it an issue about the car rattling and 
that this occurs intermittently. The supplying dealer has described that there have been 
numerous test drives undertaken when sometimes the noise is heard and sometimes it isnt. 
It also says this issue was raised a short time after Mr O acquired the car.
Mr O says the supplying dealer was very helpful trying to resolve the issue but unfortunately, 
despite several repair attempts, wasnt able to do so. Mr O has also explained the reason for 
the gap in the repairs between October and May, this wasnt due to the issue having been 
fixed but because for a period of time the dealer wasnt able to carry out further 
investigations because of the lockdown rules in place.
Looking at the evidence, Im satisfied that the car had a fault from the point of its supply to 
Mr O. He has been consistent as to the nature of the fault, that it occurs intermittently and is 
still present. The supplying dealer has also confirmed what Mr O has reported. I therefore 
dont think the car was of satisfactory quality.Under the Act the retailer does have an opportunity to repair and I think the supplying dealer 
has tried to fix the issue, but these attempts have failed. The gap in the repairs wasnt by Mr 
Os choice, and although he didnt immediately complain to Toyota FS, I think that was a 
reasonable action on the part of Mr O. He had found the dealership helpful and had fairly 
wanted to give it an opportunity to rectify the issue. So, Im not accepting Toyota FSs view 
that the delay in Mr Os complaint makes it now unreasonable for the car to be rejected.
As the car was faulty at the point of supply and attempts to repair have failed, I think its fair 
and reasonable for Mr O to now reject it and for the agreement to be cancelled. As the 
rattling hasnt prevented Mr O from using the car (though it has affected his enjoyment of it) I 
dont think it would be fair for his monthly payments under the agreement to be reimbursed. 
These payments reflect the use he has had from the car and the wear and tear that will have 
arisen from that. However, he should be reimbursed the deposit/part exchange contribution 
that he provided when taking out the agreement as the agreement is to be cancelled. In 
these circumstances it is fair, as far as possible, for Mr O to be put back in the position he 
would have been had he not entered into the agreement.
I also think it would be fair for Mr O to be compensated for the inconvenience and distress 
caused to him having to deal with the faulty car. I agree with our investigator that £50 is a fair 
amount in these circumstances.
So, for the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Os complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Toyota FS to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr O.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Mr Os deposit/part exchange contribution which totals £12,329. 45 
together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr O £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing 
with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file in respect to this 
agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Os complaint. Im asking Toyota Financial 
Services (UK) Plc trading as Lexus Financial Services to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr O.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Mr Os deposit/part exchange contribution which totals £12,329. 45 
together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr O £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file in respect to this 
agreement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman