DRN-2728516
The complaint
Mr Js complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) relates to a chargeback request he made 
and which he feels wasnt handled properly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to clarify what a chargeback dispute actually is. Its a process by which 
some disputes are resolved between card issuer, in this case Monzo, and merchants under 
the relevant card scheme rules. 
These rules are set by the card provider, whose symbol is on the card, which in this case is 
Mastercard. Mastercard has an agreement with banks as to how its cards are used, which 
covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made, which of course if successful 
would result in the customer having the money they spent on the card returned. The rules 
are quite strict, and Monzo doesn't have the power to change them. A further important 
consideration is that Monzo isnt required to ask Mastercard for a transaction to be reversed 
and need only do so if it thinks its likely to succeed. 
So, it follows that a dispute will only be likely to succeed if there is sufficient evidence to 
support it. Here, Monzo were asking from more evidence, but Mr J didnt provide it. 
The facts of the complaint are straightforward. Mr J has explained that he used Apple Pay 
linked to his Monzo account to buy an item for £4.50 but that when he later checked his bank 
account he saw a debit for £204.51 and thought he had been overcharged. He spoke to the 
merchant concerned who advised him to contact Monzo which he did on 1 December via an 
in-app dispute form. 
Mr J complained to Monzo and on 7 December Monzo advised Mr J though live chat that a 
dispute could not be raised at that time as there remained outstanding some key evidence. I 
can see from that letter that Mr J was asked to provide;
Proof that youve spoken to the merchant and tried to resolve it with them, and youve 
been unsuccessful, and
Screenshots/images that includes a clear description and cost of what you bought, 
and when it was expected to be provided
Mr J was also advised to contact the merchant by email or live chat in order to create a 
written record of his communication and that if he hadnt heard back from the merchant 
within 14 days he was to open another dispute and attach his evidence of his attempts to 
contact the merchant. Mr J was advised that without evidence that the merchant had been 
given the opportunity to resolve the dispute directly with Mr J any dispute raised was likely to 
fail.
I have read the transcript of the live chat which shows Mr J was unhappy at being asked to 
go back to the merchant, and I empathise with him. I can also see that on 8 December Mr J 
replied to Monzo that he had emailed the merchant and was waiting for a reply. But I can 
also see that Monzo responded on 9 December reminding Mr J that he was to contact them 
again if he hadnt heard from the merchant within 14 days and on 10 December it also 
issued its final response letter repeating the advice given in its live chat response on 7 
December.
Having looked at all the evidence provided by Monzo and Mr J there is no record that Mr J 
ever returned to Monzo and opened a fresh dispute as he was directed to do. So, although 
Mr J will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Monzo has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here because it clearly told Mr J what he needed to do, and he didnt do it. 
And, without opening a new dispute and informing Monzo that he had not received a 
response to his email enquiry to the merchant then I think it was reasonable for Monzo to not 
raise the dispute because without that information it was likely that the chargeback would 
have failed. And of course, its important to remember that Monzo are not required to raise a 
chargeback dispute if they believe it is unlikely to be successful. And that was their view in 
the absence of the response from Mr J.
So, in conclusion I do not believe Monzo have acted unfairly or unreasonably here and I am 
not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman