DRN-3328869
The complaint
Mr T opened a fee-paying Silver account with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). Mr T says that 
he was not told that he could have a fee free account.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and they didnt think Lloyds had mis-sold the Silver 
account. Because Mr T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think that Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr T was given a fair choice in taking out this account. I 
should stress, where there is a dispute about what has happened, I must base my 
assessment on what is most likely to have happened at the time. And to do that, I have to 
base my assessment on everything that is available. I note that Mr T had held a fee-free 
account prior to when he took out the Silver account. So, I think he would have known that, 
in general, fee-free accounts were available. Mr T has said his level of English was not 
sufficient to understand what he was agreeing to. But looking at Lloyds notes from the time 
there seems to have been a reasonably detailed discussion from the sale. It seems as if Mr 
T was looking to move from a different account provider. I can see he had held a mortgage 
with Lloyds for a number of years and all of this suggests that his level of financial literacy 
was sufficient for him to be aware that free accounts were available. Therefore, if he was 
being charged for this one it was because it came with a number of benefits and the account 
was optional.
The main account benefits at the time it was taken out was an overdraft buffer, mobile phone 
insurance, European travel insurance, and breakdown cover. I can see that Mr T made 
claims on the mobile phone insurance, drove and I can also see no reason as to why Mr T 
could not use the travel insurance, if he wished to do so. I note Mr Ts comments that he 
only travelled to Poland to visit family and as he is a Polish National, he does not need 
health cover. But Travel insurance does not just cover health issues while traveling, it 
encompasses a number of things, such as cancellation of flights etc. So, I dont think that not 
possibly needing one part of the travel insurance means that it was not potentially of use to 
him.
Overall, while I do appreciate what Mr T has said about the sale itself, on balance I think its 
more likely he agreed to the account because he was attracted to the overall package of 
benefits.
I am satisfied that this was a non-advised sale and therefore Lloyds did not need to ensure 
that the account was suitable for Mr T. It did though have to give Mr T enough information to 
decide this for himself. I think that the main benefits wouldve been outlined to Mr T to make 
the account seem attractive. I accept that Mr T may not have been given all the information 
about all of the benefits of the account, but I cant see anything specific that Mr T was not 
told that I think wouldve changed his decision to take out the account. 
On balance, I think Mr T agreed to upgrade the account, knowing that he didnt have to. And 
I think its more likely he did so because at the time he was interested in the benefits on the 
account, although I accept that Mr T may no longer recall this.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr T. Its clear that Mr T feels strongly that the 
account was mis-sold and I can see that, with hindsight, the account may not have provided 
value for money. But I cant say that an account was mis-sold just because Mr T may not 
have received value for money, I can only say an account was mis-sold if something went 
wrong during the sales process and in this instance I dont think that this was the case.
My final decision
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account and I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman