DRN-3167774
The complaint
Mr L says Loans 2 Go Limited (Loans 2 Go) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a fixed term loan taken out by Mr L in June 2019 with Loans 2 Go. 
The loan was for £250 and Mr L agreed to repay over 18 months.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint and thought Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided 
the loan. She concluded that Loans 2 Go didnt make a fair lending decision based on the 
information it had in front of it. Loans 2 Go disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ls complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr L would be able to repay loans in a sustainable way and without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Loans 2 Go wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr L ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for Mr 
L. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr L undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L. Checks 
also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Loans 2 Go has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr L it asked him for 
information about his income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check and used 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate living expenses. Before it agreed to give 
Mr L loan 1, it also verified his income. Based on those checks Loans 2 Go thought it was 
fair to lend.
Mr L was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. He was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So, I think it is right that Loans 2 Go wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ls financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. Like the investigator I dont think the checks 
Loans 2 Go carried out on this occasion were proportionate. This is because Mr Ls declared 
income and expenditure figures was wide of the mark from those arrived at by Loans 2 Go 
after it had carried out its assessment. I think on seeing this Loans 2 Go ought to have 
carried out further checks to assure itself that Mr L could repay the loan in a sustainable 
way. 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
I dont need to look further into what Loans 2 Go would have seen if it had carried out further 
checks, as I dont think it made a fair lending decision, based on the information it did have 
in front of it.
Loans 2 Go has told our service that it was not given a clear indication of financial difficulty 
from the information it gathered. It says even though Mr L had open credit commitments, it 
was evident from the credit file that he was managing these properly and keeping on top of 
the payments. I have looked through the credit file that it gathered, and I dont think that this 
was the case.Mr L had five open credit accounts. He had taken out an overdraft on an account. He then 
agreed an arrangement to repay with the finance provider. This arrangement then broke 
down and at the time he asked Loans 2 Go for a loan, he was 4 payments in arrears with 
this. Mr L was also 4 payments in arrears on a loan. In addition, he had only recently 
defaulted on a store card and had a large balance to repay. He had made a late payment on 
a communications account and was quite close to his credit limit on a credit card and a 
second overdraft. I can see that Mr L had taken several short-term loans and then repaid 
them leading up to him asking for this one. 
I dont think Loans 2 Go reacted appropriately to the information it had in front of it. The 
number of short term loans that he took out leading up to him asking for a loan with it along 
with the arrears that he had accrued, ought to have given Loans 2 Go serious concerns 
about Mr Ls finances and his ability to repay this loan in a sustainable way.
In conclusion, I dont think, based on what Loans 2 Go had in front of it, that it should have 
given Mr L this loan. 
Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ls credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put 
things right for Mr L as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman