DRN-2932070
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd (Bastion) kept the premiums after he 
cancelled his home emergency policy. The linked finance agreement which the policy was 
funded by is still not settled.
What happened
Mr S had problems at the payment stage when taking out the home emergency policy online 
through a broker. It didnt seem as though his payment had been accepted. As a result, he 
completed the application again straight afterwards with a different payment card to 
complete the purchase.
Shortly after this Mr S checked his email and found hed received confirmation from the 
broker that he had in fact purchased two home emergency policies with identical cover for 
the same risk address. Ill refer to these as the First Policy and the Second Policy.
This service is also considering Mr Ss complaint about the arrangement of his policies and 
associated cancellation charges against the broker. Ill make no further comments about 
those issues in this decision against Bastion.
Mr S initially only cancelled the second policy. But he was left disappointed with the lack of 
assistance and support from the broker over the telephone and in relation to the cancellation 
charge. As a result, Mr S notified the broker that if he couldnt get the issues resolved with 
the broker, he would cancel the first policy too. Mr S still didnt feel he got any help. So, he 
cancelled the first policy too. Mr S followed this up by cancelling the linked direct debit. At 
this point two monthly direct debit payments of £13.99 had already been collected.
As the policy cancellation was made just outside the 14-day cooling off period, Bastion 
retained the premiums and wouldnt apply any of the unused premiums to pay off Mr Ss 
separate credit agreement. As a result, Mr S received notice of arrears and a request for 
payment of the outstanding balance on the linked credit agreement from the finance 
company.
Bastion said Mr S isnt entitled to a refund. It said the terms of the policy say Bastion will 
retain the premiums if the policy is cancelled after the 14-day cooling off period. It also said 
Mr Ss agreement with the finance company is separate to his insurance contract and so he 
needs to speak directly with them to cancel his credit agreement.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. He highlighted Bastions obligations under The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), which 
says that the amount Mr S paid shouldnt exceed the proportion of the service that has 
already been provided. Mr S cancelled his policy 15 days after it was arranged, and so he 
recommended Bastion should reimburse the remainder of the unused premiums to settle the 
linked credit agreement. He said it should also pay off any additional interest and charges 
that have accrued. He said Bastion should work with the finance company to ensure any 
adverse records related to this matter against Mr S are removed. Our investigator said 
Bastion should pay Mr S £75 compensation to recognise the stress, upset and 
inconvenience its actions caused Mr S.
Bastion didnt accept our investigators recommendations and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bastions terms say it can retain the premiums in full if the policy is cancelled outside the 14-
day cooling off period. But this doesnt mean it is fair and reasonable for it to do so in every 
situation. Bastions permissions to conduct insurance business in the UK mean it is obliged 
to adhere to the regulations set out by the FCA though the ICOBS. In particular ICOBS 7, 
which sets out the obligations of an authorised firm when cancelling an insurance contract.
It says:
(1) When a consumer exercises the right to cancel, he may only be required to pay, 
without any undue delay, for the service actually provided by the firm in accordance with the 
contract.
(2) The amount payable must not:
(a) exceed an amount which is in proportion to the extent of the service 
already provided in comparison with the full coverage of the contract; and
(b) in any case be such that it could be construed as a penalty.
(3) A firm must not require a consumer to pay any amount:
(a) unless it can prove that the consumer was duly informed about the 
amount payable; or
(b) if it commenced the performance of the contract before the expiry of the 
cancellation period without the consumer's prior request.
I think that according to ICOBS the amount Bastion charges, after Mr S chose to cancel his 
policy, cannot exceed the proportion of the service that has already been provided. To do so 
could be considered as a penalty or barrier to Mr S using his right to cancel the policy.
So, I think Bastion is only entitled to retain the cost of the cover which Mr S received before 
cancelling his policy. To meet its obligations under ICOBS Bastion should ensure the 
remainder of the premiums are paid to the finance company. As Mr S had already paid 2 
monthly payments any leftover amount after clearing the credit agreement should be 
refunded to Mr S. Bastion should also add simple interest at 8% per year on the amount 
refunded. The interest should be from the date Mr S made the payments until the date 
Bastion settles them. Bastion ought to pay off any interest and charges linked to the credit 
agreement too. I dont think Mr S was at fault for the situation that arose leading to the 
cancellation so Bastion should work with the finance company to ensure any adverse credit 
records related to this matter against Mr S are removed.
Lastly, I think this situation has had an impact on Mr S. I think it has caused him distress and 
inconvenience and hes referred to how anxious this situation made him feel. Also, he had to 
spend more time since he cancelled the policy trying to get the matter resolved. It was clear 
that Mr S suffered unnecessarily due to the problems. I think £75 compensation is a fair and 
reasonable way to recognise the degree of upset, worry and inconvenience Bastion caused 
to Mr S.Putting things right
Calculate the proportionate refund of the premiums in connection with first policy based 
on the actual cover provided up to Mr Ss cancellation request on 8 January 2021;
Apply the unused premiums to make a payment to the finance company in order to clear 
any outstanding balance of the linked credit agreement;
As Mr S has already paid 2 monthly payments towards the credit agreement, any 
remaining amount of the unused premiums after clearing the credit agreement should be 
refunded to Mr S;
Pay simple interest* at 8% per year on any refund payment of unused premiums to Mr S, 
from the date Mr S made the payments until the date Bastion settles them;
Pay any additional charges and interest that have accrued on the finance agreement 
since 8 January 2021;
Work with the finance company to remove any adverse records that have been recorded 
with credit reference agencies in relation to the finance agreement;
Pay Mr S £75 compensation to recognise the stress and inconvenience caused to him as 
a result of the errors.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to:
Calculate the proportionate refund of the premiums in connection with first policy based 
on the actual cover provided up to Mr Ss cancellation request on 8 January 2021;
Apply the unused premiums to make a payment to the finance company in order to clear 
any outstanding balance of the linked credit agreement;
As Mr S has already paid 2 monthly payments towards the credit agreement, any 
remaining amount of the unused premiums after clearing the credit agreement should be 
refunded to Mr S;
Pay simple interest* at 8% per year on any refund payment of unused premiums to Mr S, 
from the date Mr S made the payments until the date Bastion settles them;
Pay any additional charges and interest that have accrued on the finance agreement 
since 8 January 2021;
Work with the finance company to remove any adverse records that have been recorded 
with credit reference agencies in relation to the finance agreement;
Pay Mr S £75 compensation to recognise the stress and inconvenience caused to him as 
a result of the errors.
*If Bastion considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Bastion Insurance Co Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 John Quinlan
Ombudsman