DRN-3452269
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the administration of her Dealing and ISA account held with Equiniti 
Financial Services Limited. She says it failed to carry out her instructions to close the 
account and transfer the remaining balance. Because of this, she incurred a further annual 
fee.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Below, 
I have highlighted some key dates I think are relevant to the complaint:
28 October 2020: Equiniti write to Mrs S explaining the custody fee will be increasing 
to £40 per annum from 7 December 2020.   
31 October 2020: Mrs S contacts Equiniti about her account. 
3 November 2020: Equiniti reply and explain that it cannot share specific account 
information via email. 
30 November 2020: Mrs S sends a follow up email asking for her account to be 
closed and the remaining balance to be transferred. 
7 December 2020: Equiniti apply a £40 account charge.
Equiniti explained it couldnt see Mrs S had experienced difficulties in accessing her account 
but if she did, she could provide evidence of this and it would investigate the matter further. It 
also outlined the steps she could take to close the account. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint because she didnt think Equiniti had acted unfairly. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons. 
Equiniti wrote to Mrs S on 28 October 2020 explaining the account fee was due to increase 
to £40 per annum as of 7 December 2020 and customers were invited to review their 
account balances beforehand. It also explained the account was due to migrate to another 
provider in June 2021 and so Mrs S needed to confirm her next steps by 30 November 2020. 
She had the option to transfer to another provider, alternatively she could take the shares as 
certificates, neither option incurred an additional cost. Mrs S has said neither of these 
options were suitable for her. I think the letter reasonably sets out what changes Equiniti 
intended to make, and Im satisfied it informed Mrs S about the options available.   
Mrs S has said she called Equiniti on 31 October 2020 and during this call she requested to 
close her account. Ive asked Equiniti for a copy of the call recording but unfortunately it 
couldnt provide one. I dont dispute that a conversation between Mrs S and the business 
took place but in the absence of further evidence, I cant say for certain what was discussed. 
And so, I must think about what was more likely to have happened.  
I can see Mrs S also emailed Equiniti on 31 October 2020 and requested copies of her 
statements. Equiniti promptly replied explaining it was unable to go into specific account 
details via email, as email is deemed an unsecure method of communication. It was also 
unable to accept any instructions regarding the account via email and confirmed Mrs S 
should make contact via secure message or telephone to proceed with her request for 
statements. There was no mention of Mrs S instructing it to close her account.  On balance, 
I am not persuaded Mrs S did request to close her account at this point because the email 
she sent does not support this.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions for the account which state: 
21.3: EQi does not consider post, fax or email to be secure methods of communication 
and orders and instructions concerning an Account will be accepted only by telephone or 
Secure Electronic Message  
Im satisfied Equiniti made Mrs S reasonably aware it was unable to share account 
information or accept instructions via email. 
Following this, on 30 November 2020 Mrs S did email Equiniti requesting the account to be 
closed and the remaining balance to be transferred by cheque or bank transfer. But Mrs S 
sent her request to Equinitis general mailbox whereby it had previously told Mrs S it could 
not accept account instruction via this method of communication. Mrs S has said, Equiniti 
invited her to get in touch with it via this mailbox and I dont dispute it did. But this was only if 
Mrs S had general questions about the changes Equiniti were introducing, she had already 
been informed it wouldnt accept account instructions via this method. As highlighted above, 
the account terms and conditions affirm this, so I dont think it has acted unfairly by not 
accepting this instruction.
I appreciate Mrs S said she had difficulty in accessing her online account but Equiniti or 
I havent been provided with any evidence to consider this point further and so I wont say 
more about this. 
Overall, I consider Equiniti is entitled to use the internal operational policies or processes it 
wishes to use, as long as they are transparent to its customers; they are not in breach of 
relevant laws and regulation and not in breach of the terms of its service; and, in the context 
of this services fair and reasonable remit, they are fair and reasonable. 
I understand this is not the outcome Mrs S wouldve liked but I hope my decision has gone 
some way in explaining why I dont think Equiniti has acted unfairly or unreasonably.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman