DRN-3362577
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd loaded a marker against him on the National Fraud 
Database. Hed like the marker removed and compensation for the impact on him. 
What happened
Mr B had a bank account with Monzo. 
On 22 April 2021 Mr B received a transfer of £50 into his account. Soon after the money was 
received, Mr B withdraw £100 from his account. 
In April 2021 Monzo received notification that the funds were fraudulent. The third party, Ill 
call Mr A, explained theyd been discussing purchasing a car, and they were asked to pay a 
£50 deposit to secure it. On agreeing to pay the funds, they were provided with Mr Bs bank 
account details  and transferred the funds over. 
Mr A advised Monzo that once theyd paid the £50 deposit they couldnt get hold of the seller 
 so reported theyd been the victim of a scam to Monzo. Mr A also provided a copy of 
screenshots to Monzo showing a conversation between him and the seller. 
After receiving the report of fraud, Monzo reviewed Mr As account, closed it and loaded a 
marker against him on the National Fraud Database. 
Mr B contacted Monzo to complain about the loading of the marker. Monzo looked into Mr 
Bs complaint, but didnt uphold it. Mr B explained that he regularly sold digital coins via a 
social media platform, and on occasions buyers advised their banks that they didnt receive 
the coins  which wasnt true. And therefore his bank had received chargeback requests. He 
explained that another bank he was a customer of loaded a marker against him  but after 
hed told them what happened they agreed to remove it. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Monzos response, so complained to our service. He explained that 
the loading of the marker prevented him opening a non-fee paying bank account, caused 
him financial difficulties, and impacted on his mental health. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. They asked him more questions 
about the funds coming into his account on 22 April 2021  and Mr B explained they were 
through the selling of digital coins. He provided screenshots showing conversations between 
him and the buyer  and said he didnt know why the payment was referenced car or why 
the buyer was saying he paid the money for a deposit. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. They looked at the 
evidence provided by both parties, but thought there were some inconsistencies in the 
evidence Mr B provided. Including the date on the screenshots. And therefore thought, on 
balance, Mr B was complicit in the fraud. And Monzo had acted fairly in loading the marker. 
Mr B didnt agree, so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigators given a comprehensive explanation of the requirements Monzo need to 
meet to load a marker on the National Fraud Database  so I wont repeat this. 
However, Ill reinforce the key points Monzo need to demonstrate in meeting the standard 
required. 
Firstly, Monzo need to show that fraudulent funds were received or an attempt was made to 
transfer them into Mr Bs account. And secondly that Mr B had knowledge that the funds 
were fraudulent  so was complicit in receiving the funds. 
Having looked at the evidence provided by both parties Im satisfied that Monzo acted fairly 
in loading the marker against Mr B. I say this because: 
Ive seen evidence from Monzo showing that £50 was received on 22 April 2021 into 
Mr Bs account  and this was reported as fraud. 
Monzo have supplied screenshots provided by Mr A which show he agreed to pay 
£50 for a car deposit, the account details provided were for Mr Bs account and the 
£50 Mr B received had the reference car. 
There were a significant number of mobile app log ins for Mr Bs account in the 
30 minutes before the money was transferred in. And the funds were withdrawn 
within an hour on the same day after being deposited. This is what Id expect to see if 
Mr B was expecting to receive fraudulent funds. 
Mr Bs provided evidence that he sold digital coins via a social media platform  and 
thats why he received a payment of £50. Ive looked at the evidence Mr Bs 
provided, and I agree it does show a conversation between Mr B and a third party 
discussing the purchase of digital coins. Mr B initially provided screenshots which 
didnt have a date, and on providing the screenshots for a second occasion the 
image appears exactly the same, but with the date at the top. I find it surprising that 
the date wasnt present on the first message  but appeared on the second one. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied that Monzo have provided sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds were received into Mr Bs account. And Im not 
satisfied that the evidence Mr Bs provided shows the fraud didnt take place or he wasnt 
complicit in it. Therefore I think Monzo have met the burden of proof to load a marker on the 
National Fraud Database, and I wont be asking them to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman