DRN-3189261
The complaint
Ms S complains about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) policy premium refund offer for 
her annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. My references to IPA include its agents.
What happened
Ms S bought an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, insured by IPA. 
The policy was purchased on 4 June 2019 to cover trips taken worldwide. The policy year 
started on 17 June 2019 and ended on 16 June 2020. 
Ms S paid £20.51 for the standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover. 
On 19 May 2020 Ms S told IPA that she hadnt used her policy due to Covid-19 and travel 
restrictions and she wanted a premium refund.
IPA offered Ms S a pro rata refund on her policy from the date she requested a refund, a 
refund of £1.85. IPA also said it would waive the usual £25 administration fee which under its 
terms of business was payable if Ms S requested a mid-term change to the policy.
Ms S didnt accept the £1.85 premium refund offer and complained to IPA and then to our 
service. She said she travelled in June and July 2019 but couldnt travel as planned in 
February 2020 due to personal circumstances. And she couldnt travel as planned in March 
and April 2020 because of travel advice from the British Government and travel restrictions 
in the country where shed planned to travel due to Covid-19. Ms S said she hadnt used the 
policy from November 2019 to June 2020 so she wanted a larger premium refund.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S didnt formally tell IPA that she wanted to cancel her policy in May 2020. But as on 
19 May 2020 she asked IPA for a refund of premiums I think it reasonably understood that in 
effect she was asking for the policy to be cancelled from that date. So Ive referred to the 
policy as being cancelled in my findings below, as in effect it was. 
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Ms S held have a cooling off period of 14 days 
for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is called the 
right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Ms S didnt cancel her travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry rules, even 
if Ms S had cancelled the policy within 14 days, she wouldnt have been entitled to a full 
refund of the premium paid. 
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Ms S insurance policy with IPA outline her cancellation rights 
under the contract. These say:
At page three:
Cancellation period
You are free to cancel this policy at any time. If you wish to cancel within 14 days of 
receipt of the policy documents, you may by writing to us for a full refund providing 
you have not travelled and no claim has been made. If you cancel after the first 14 
days of receipt of the documents, no premium refund will be made. See General 
conditions applicable to the whole policy in the policy wording for full details.
At page ten:
General conditions applicable to the whole policy:
3. Cancellation
Statutory cancellation rights
You may cancel this policy within 14 days of receipt of the policy documents (new 
business) and for annual policies the renewal date (the cancellation period) by writing 
to the address shown in your schedule during the cancellation period. Any premium 
already paid will be refunded to you providing you have not travelled, no claim has 
been made or is intended to be made and no incident likely to result in a claim has 
occurred.
Cancellation outside the statutory period
You may cancel this policy at any time after the cancellation period by writing to the 
address above/shown in your schedule. If you cancel after the cancellation period no premium refund will be made.
Ms S cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to her than 
required by industry rules But Ms S policy was purchased on 4 June 2019 and cancelled on 
19 May 2020. This was more than 14 days after she bought the policy.
This means I dont think Ms S is entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of the contract with IPA.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand why travel plans which Ms S might have had from November 2019 during the 
remainder of the policy year, and therefore the need for this annual multi-trip insurance 
policy, changed due to circumstances outside of her control. So Ive thought about whether it 
would be fair and reasonable to ask IPA to depart from industry rules and the terms and 
conditions of Ms S contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract.
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Ms S contract with IPA to be performed, 
cover under the policy started on 17 June 2019. 
Ms S was insured from that date for travelling on any number of trips which she may have 
taken until the policy was cancelled on 19 May 2020. Because of the way annual multi-trip 
insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips Ms S took 
(unless Ms S made a claim under the policy). There may have been many trips or there may 
have been none, but IPA was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was in 
force.
The price set by IPA covered Ms S for cancellation of any holidays which she had booked 
and was due to take from 17 June 2019 until 19 May 2020. Ms S would have been covered if 
she had to cancel any number of holidays because of any listed events insured under the 
policy. 
So IPA covered the risk of Ms S making a successful cancellation claim for any number of 
pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, from 17 June 2019 
until 19 May 2020. Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had 
commenced to bear the risk concerned, for however short a time, the premium paid is not 
returnable. So regardless of what Ms S cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for IPA to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered.
However, after 19 May 2020 due to Covid-19, IPA didnt bear any risk under Ms S insurance 
policy as she had in effect cancelled the policy. After the policy was cancelled IPA was not 
providing cancellation cover for any other holidays which Ms S may have had booked or for 
any travelling that Ms S may have done either abroad or within the UK. 
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think IPA have been fair and reasonable in offering Ms S a pro-rata refund from 
19 May 2020. It has calculated the refund to be £1.85, which I think is reasonable. Under its 
terms of business IPA could have charged Ms S a £25 administration fee for cancelling her policy (which she had in effect done by asking for a premium refund) so it acted reasonably 
in not charging her the fee.
If Ms S now wants to accept IPAs offer she should contact IPA direct.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman