DRN-1601175
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Mrs L took out a store card in September 1998. At the time she was not sold a PPI policy.
PPI was added to the store card following a telephone call in April 1999.
The PPI cost £1 per month for every £100 outstanding on the card balance. It wouldve paid 
a monthly benefit of 15% of the outstanding balance if Mrs L was unable to work due to 
sickness, an accident or if she lost her job. This would continue until either Mrs L returned to 
work or the balance was cleared. In total Mrs L was charged £66.33 in PPI premiums.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld.
Mrs L didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs L that the PPI was optional.
Mrs L was sold the PPI during a telephone call. After so many years it isnt surprising that 
there is no call recording available. I cant know what Mrs L was told during the call, but she 
had held the card without PPI for over six months. So, I think Mrs L would have known she 
didnt have to agree to add PPI to the account. And the PPI premiums would likely have 
appeared on Mrs Ls statements after the telephone call.
After taking everything into account I think AXA most likely made it clear that Mrs L didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this after so many years.I dont think AXA advised Mrs L to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her. But AXA did have to give Mrs L clear information so 
that she could make a choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. For example, it is 
unlikely the cost was made clear. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need 
to decide whether or not Mrs L would have changed her mind about buying the policy if she 
had been given better or clearer information. I cant say she would have done. I say this 
because.
Mrs L was eligible for the PPI based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. So, shed 
have been able to make a claim if she needed to.If Mrs L couldnt work due to ill-health the 
policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit every month until she returned to work or the balance 
was cleared. And it wouldve paid the same benefit if Mrs L lost her job.
Mrs L would have received sick pay from her employer if she became too unwell to work. But 
the PPI could have paid a benefit in addition to her sick pay. And potentially it could have 
paid a benefit for longer than her full sick pay would last. So, I still think Mrs L could have 
found the policy useful, particularly if she had been unable to work for a prolonged period.
Mrs L had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed her to keep her savings intact or 
use them for other living costs if she became unable to work.
The policy had some exclusions and restrictive terms. But Mrs L wasnt affected by these. 
For instance, Mrs L has told us she didnt have any medical conditions at the time of the sale 
which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything into account I think its likely Mrs L was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose to add it to her account. And I think that even if Mrs L had been given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead and bought it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman