DRN-4225255
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr H was searching online for investment opportunities when he came across a company Ill 
refer to as I. He engaged with I via Whatsapp and was told he could easily make over 
£100 a week. The broker asked him to first purchase cryptocurrency through a 
cryptocurrency exchange company and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. 
 
Between 30 March 2021 and 28 April 2021, Mr H made ten payments to two cryptocurrency 
exchange companies totalling £108,549.97 using a Visa debit card connected to his 
Santander account. On 30 March 2021, he tried to pay £20,529.08 and £3221.89 to a 
cryptocurrency exchange Ill refer to as M. The payment was released following a call 
during which there was no scam warning.
On 14 April 2021, he tried to pay £15,000 to a different exchange which Ill refer to as B. 
The payment was flagged for checks and during the call, Mr H said he wasnt buying 
cryptocurrency. The call handler warned him about the prevalence of scams, in response to 
which he explained the funds would go into his blockchain wallet before being released to 
make trades on the stock market. The call handler also read the following warning before 
releasing the payment: If you did receive a cold call about an investment opportunity or if 
you havent checked the company youre investing with, this could be a scam. We 
recommend checking company details on the FCA website if you are suspicious about who 
youre paying, you shouldnt continue with the payment.
There were further interventions on 15 April 2021, 26 April 2021 and 28 April 2021. On 26 
April 2021, there were two calls during which Mr H mentions his broker and the payment is 
released without any questions about the broker. On 28 April 2021, the call handler checked 
Mr H had control of the cryptocurrency wallet, that he wasnt using a third party or a broker 
and that he hadnt been told what to say to the bank. 
Mr H realised he was the victim of a scam when he contacted the broker to say blockchain 
wouldnt release his funds and he didnt receive a response. He contacted Santander to tell it 
hed fallen victim to a scam and to ask for a refund of the money hed lost. He said it had 
failed to confirm that the recipient bank account was in the correct name, identify that the 
investment platforms werent genuine and recognise that the payee had unmatching and 
suspicious details. 
Santander said the debit card transactions dated between 13 April 2021 and 28 April 2021 
were requested and authorised by Mr H and had required additional authentication through 
its mobile banking application. The transactions were blocked due to security concerns and 
Mr H had said hed completed checks, was happy the transactions were genuine, and 
wished to proceed. It said the £25,000 payment to B was initially declined and Mr H was 
given relevant scam warnings in response to which he said the payment was genuine and 
he wished to proceed. 
It said he was unable to raise a chargeback request because the payments were to an 
account in Mr Hs own name, apologising this was not made clear at the outset and offering 
£100 compensation. It also said the payments werent covered under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code and it had contacted the receiving bank who confirmed 
that no funds remained.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said Santander had failed to 
protect his interests and had allowed payments to fraudulent companies. He said it failed to 
confirm the recipient bank account was in the correct name, and to identify that the 
investment platform wasnt a registered company. He said he wasnt happy with £100 
compensation as Santander failed to manage his expectations, and its response times were 
prolonged.
He said Santander had failed to investigate the first two payments of £3,221.89 and 
£20,528.08, and he believes it failed to provide adequate protection and safeguarding 
measures required by checking the payee details. 
His representative said he had no previous experience of investing, he wasnt an expert, and 
hed trusted the scammers because they presented as genuine investment platforms with 
experienced and reliable agents. They said Mr H was vulnerable and it was unreasonable to 
expect him to have protected himself.
The representative said it was Santanders duty to establish transactional data and customer 
behaviour analytics to identify high-risk payments and the numerous large payments to 
unregulated foreign investment companies should have been flagged for further checks. And 
that its failure to provide effective warnings, which were neither impactful, timely or specific 
meant Mr H was unable to implement the actions he should have taken to address the risk. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied I was 
operating a scam and that Mr H had authorised all the payments. She was also satisfied the 
payments were unusual when compared to Mr Hs general account activity. But she noted 
Mr H had gone ahead with the investment even though Santander had intervened.
She noted it failed to provide a scam warning during the call that took place on 30 March 
2021. And she thought Santander should have queried what Mr H said about his broker 
during the call on 26 April 2021, and that its failure to do so represented a missed 
opportunity. But she didnt think an earlier warning or more probing questions would have 
made a difference. 
This is because she was satisfied Mr H had been coached to deny the involvement of a 
third-party, so Santander couldnt reasonably have identified this as a scam. So, while she 
thought Santander should have given an earlier scam warning and asked more questions 
during the call on 26 April 2021, she didnt think it would have made any difference.
She explained there were no prospects of a successful chargeback claim because the 
cryptocurrency exchange companies had provided the services as intended. And the CRM 
Code wouldnt apply because the disputed payments were card payments and transfers into 
accounts in Mr Hs name. She also explained that there was no prosect of a successful 
recovery because Mr H had transferred the funds out of the account himself.  Finally, our investigator explained Santander had paid Mr H £100 compensation in 
recognition of customer service issues and delays and she was satisfied that was fair 
because when Mr H reported the scam, there was little it could do to recover the money.
Mr H has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. His representative has 
said the warnings were generic and not enough to prevent him from going ahead with the 
transactions. They said the payments were for unusually large sums to unusual destinations 
which was completely out of character and Mr Hs assurance that the investment was 
genuine was meaningless because that was what he genuinely believed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr H has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr H has fallen victim to, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Santander has said the CRM code didnt apply in this case 
because the payments were to an account in Mr Hs own name, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Im satisfied Mr H authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and Im persuaded the broker was operating as 
part of a scam. This is because on 21 October 2021, a warning about I was placed on the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website and on 26 October 2021 a warning was 
published on the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) website. 
Further, there are several reports in the public domaine.g. foreign press and online 
forumsstating that I were scammers. 
But, although Mr H didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Santander is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
PreventionIve thought about whether Santander could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Santander had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of 
a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have done more to warn Mr H when 
he tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, 
Id expect it to intervene with a view to protecting Mr H from financial harm due to fraud. 
Ive considered the nature of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or 
uncharacteristic of how Mr H normally ran his account and I think they were because 
although the payments were to legitimate cryptocurrency exchange companies, they were 
for significantly large amounts, which was out of character for the usual spending on the 
account. Santander did intervene at the points I would expect it to, so the issue for me to 
consider is whether it did enough during the calls.
Having listened to the calls, Im satisfied Mr H was asked robust questions around the 
purpose of the payments. Santander failed to provide a scam warning during the call on 30 
March 2021, but it did provide warnings during later calls which didnt make a difference and 
so I dont think an earlier warning would have made a difference. 
I agree with our investigator that Santander should have asked more questions during the 
call on 26 April 2021. She didnt think more probing questions would have made any 
difference because Mr H was coached to deny the involvement of a third party. But while he 
did deny the involvement of a third party on 28 April 2021, he clearly mentioned the broker 
on 26 April 2021, so I need to consider what might have happened had the call handler 
examined this further.
If Santander had asked more questions on 26 April 2021, based on the fact hed volunteered 
the information, I think Mr H would most likely have said he was following the advice of a 
broker who hed come across online. And with this information, Id expect the call handler to 
have told Mr H there were red flags present, before giving a full scam warning and advising 
him how to check the investment was genuine. 
But Mr H clearly trusted the broker, he hadnt been promised unrealistic returns and this was 
a sophisticated scam. And at the time he made the payments, were no warnings on either 
the FCA or IOSCO websites to confirm this was a scam and I havent seen any evidence of 
negative reviews, so even if Santander had done more during the call on 26 April 2021 and 
Mr H had followed advice to do more checks, I dont think it would have made a difference to 
his decision to go ahead with the payments.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover Mr Hs payments 
when she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Santander) acted fairly and reasonably 
when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr 
H).
Mr Hs own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Hs payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail.
Compensation
Santander has offered Mr H £100 compensation for customer service issues that arose after 
he complained to it. Ive considered the circumstances, in particular the impact of its failure 
to manage his expectations around the prospects of a successful chargeback claim, and Im 
satisfied £100 is fair.
Overall, Im sorry to hear Mr H has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, while I think Santander could have done more, I dont think this 
represented a failure to intervene in circumstances that would have prevented his loss and 
so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman