DRN-2921413
The complaint
Mr E complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr E took out loans with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Loan Date taken Date paid Number of weekly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountweekly  
repayment*
1 17.2.2019 25.2.2019 78 £350 £18.46
2 4.3.2019 30.8.2019 78 £350 £18.46
3 29.11.2019 30.11.2019 78 £260 £13.71
4 4.12.2019 9.12.2019 78 £300 £15.82
5 11.12.2019 24.1.2020 78 £400 £21.10
Mr E brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with Loans 2 Go. 
In brief summary, Mr E felt that it wouldve been apparent to Loans 2 Go that the loans were 
unaffordable for him if proper affordability checks had been done. He also complained that 
the interest rates charged were excessive.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Es complaint about all the loans and set out directions indicating 
what he thought Loans 2 Go should do to put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that proportionate checks 
were carried out on each occasion and it didnt agree that it had acted irresponsibly towards 
Mr E in any way. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Loans 2 
Go relied on when it decided to lend to Mr E. 
Mr E didnt pay any interest on loan 1  he repaid it before he was charged for the 
borrowing. And I dont think its likely that Loans 2 Go recorded anything negative about 
this loan on his credit file. So whether or not I uphold Mr Es complaint about this particular 
loan makes no difference overall to redress  as he hasnt lost out financially or had any 
adverse information relating to loan 1 put on his credit file as a result of taking out loan 1, 
there would be nothing for Loans 2 Go to do to put things right. But Ive set out my thinking 
on this loan because, like the adjudicator, I think the five loans formed one more or less 
continuous chain of borrowing. So I think it is helpful to consider the circumstances from 
the start.
Loan 1
Loans 2 Go asked Mr E about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks. 
Loans 2 Go used an online electronic income checker to verify that Mr Es monthly pay was 
£1,469.17(minimum). Relying on this figure for his net monthly income and taking into 
account what Mr E had said about his monthly expenditure, and what its credit checks 
showed, it calculated that Mr Es monthly expenditure was £1,114.08. It also allowed for a 
buffer of 10% of his verified expenditure to account for any fluctuations in Mr Es monthly 
income or expenditure. Loans 2 Go calculated that Mr E shouldve been comfortably able to 
afford the monthly repayment of £79.99 on this loan. 
I think that Loans 2 Go could see from its credit check that Mr E had some concerning 
information showing on his credit history. Our adjudicator mentioned a county court 
judgement dating back to March 2016 and it was apparent that Mr E had experienced 
payment problems on a credit card over the course of the previous year  the account was 
now in default and he was at least six payments in arrears 
It was apparent also that Mr E had been in arrears for a couple of months in late 2018 on 
one of his bank accounts . A second bank account showed that Mr E was 1 payment in 
arrears at the time of the credit file check.
The credit file review also showed a loan account entry that had been updated in November 
2018. Although the data shown was unknown for the previous two months, it was evident 
that during 2018 this loan showed arrears escalating monthly until they reached 6 or more 
payments in arrears.Loans 2 Go  could also see that Mr E had a record of payment problems on a number  of 
accounts that were now settled. It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to 
have a credit history showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these 
things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan 
application.
I dont think I can fairly say that Loans 2 Go should have declined Mr Es lending application 
on the strength of the county court judgement it saw. Whilst that was a serious black mark 
on his credit file, it dated back almost three years. And his more recent credit history, whilst 
concerning, wasnt enough in my view to have prompted a responsible lender to have 
declined this loan application. 
To my mind the most serious indicator of potential underlying and ongoing money problems 
was the defaulted credit card account and Ive thought carefully about what conclusions Id 
expect Loans 2 Go to have drawn from this  particularly in the context of the other 
information it saw. Mr E owed £448, which was more than twice the £200 credit limit on the 
card. But given what Mr E had told Loans 2 Go  about his financial situation and the 
information it had gathered from its credit checks, I dont think this information was enough 
for me to say that Loans 2 Go should have declined this loan application.  
I agree with our adjudicator that although the loan mightve looked affordable to Loans 2 
Go, this information appeared to be at odds with the information Loans 2 Go gathered 
showing warning signs that Mr E had been struggling to manage his finances for some 
time. So I think Loans 2 Go should have carried out further checks before agreeing to 
provide the loan. 
Mr E has provided a credit report which confirms what Loans 2 Go discovered about his 
financial situation at the time but it doesnt provide any significant new information. It might 
have been helpful to see Mr Es bank statements from around this time to see if these give 
more insight into his actual financial situation when he applied for this loan - but Mr E told 
our adjudicator that these arent now available. So I have to make my decision based on the 
available information. 
Thinking about loan 1 overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that it was 
unreasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude that the loan it provided looked like it ought to 
be affordable for Mr E or that there was enough other information to show that loan 1 
would be unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him over the loan term. So for these 
reasons I dont plan to uphold Mr Es complaint about loan 1. 
  
Loan 2
Loans 2 Go carried out the same information gathering process as it had done for loan 1  it 
recorded broadly similar income and expenditure figures and its credit checks showed more 
or less the same information it had seen on its credit report obtained when Mr E applied for 
loan 1.
I think its fair to say that Mr Es financial situation didnt look like it had improved at all  he 
now had another months arrears showing. But thats unsurprising given that the checks 
were done just a few weeks apart.
I dont think that Loans 2 Go had any good reason to draw any adverse conclusions from 
loan 1. Mr E was borrowing the same amount again and looking at making the same weekly 
repayments as hed signed up to first time. For all the same reasons that I dont think loan 1 was unfairly provided, I dont think Ive seen enough to make me think that it would be fair 
and reasonable to uphold Mr Es complaint about loan 2.
I can see that Mr E quickly ran into payment problems on this loan which took him some 
months to resolve before he finally cleared the loan early. And Im very sorry that he found 
paying this loan difficult. I dont think that Loans 2 Go carried out sufficient checks before it 
agreed the loan. But based on what I've seen, I cant fairly say that a proportionate check 
would have shown that loan 2 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr E. So, unlike 
our adjudicator, Im not planning on upholding loan 2.
Loans 3, 4 and 5
I agree with our adjudicator about these loans. Despite the fact that Mr E was applying to 
borrow a smaller loan and the income and expenditure assessment done by Loans 2 Go 
suggested that the weekly repayments would be affordable for Mr E, by the time Mr E was 
applying for loan 3, Loans 2 Go was aware of the payment problems hed had on loan 2. 
It also saw on its credit checks that Mr E had taken out further credit elsewhere at the same 
time as arrears on other accounts were continuing to accrue. I think it was now evident that 
Mr Es finances were under significant pressure and there were clear signs that not only was 
he making no inroads into his existing debt he was taking on new credit commitments  all 
hallmarks that Mr E was in serious financial difficulties.
I think this alone was sufficient for Loans 2 Go to have realised that further lending was 
unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Mr E. And so it shouldnt have provided loan 3  or 
any further loans to Mr E. 
Even if I am wrong on this point, I hope that Loans 2 Go will feel able to agree that this 
information was certainly sufficient to have prompted Loans 2 Go, as a responsible lender, to 
have done more and better checking before agreeing to lend, bearing in mind Mr Es 
payment record on loan 2 and the increasingly concerning information its credit checks 
showed.
Had it done so, I think its likely that Loans 2 Go wouldve discovered that since taking out 
loan 2, Mr E had borrowed twice from another provider of high cost credit in April and July 
2019  taking out the second loan the same day he repaid the first, indicating to me that he 
was most likely unable to fill the gap in his finances left by paying the first loan without 
borrowing further. Mr E also took out a hire purchase loan of £1,160 on 23 July 2019  when 
he was already having problems paying loan 2. 
Borrowing was also provided on 24 September 2019 - this isnt explained as the credit file 
doesnt clarify the status of the borrowing at the time Mr E applied for loan 3 but it supports 
my view that Mr E was increasing his indebtedness at a time when this wasnt sustainable 
for him. If more confirmation is needed, Id also point to the fact that a bank account also had 
an increasing arrears figure and was now showing as 3 payments in arears so it seems 
Mr E was still struggling to manage his financial position.
I think Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that Mr E had become reliant on expensive forms of 
borrowing and recognised the signs that he was dependent on obtaining new credit in order 
to fund his day to day costs and meet his other credit commitments. 
If Loans 2 Go had sought a fuller picture of Mr Es financial situation, it wasnt likely to have 
been reassured that the loan would be sustainable for him. I think Loans 2 Go shouldve 
seen enough, had it done a proportionate check, to have concluded that the loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr E and so it shouldnt have provided it  or any of the 
loans that followed. 
I dont think the fact that he paid the loans early was a reason to support Loans 2 Gos 
lending decisions  taking out and repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that 
Mr Es finances werent in a stable position. And the fact that he increased the loan amounts 
when he applied for loans 4 and 5 within just two weeks of having taken out loan 3 all tends 
to support my view that these loans werent sustainably affordable  and so they shouldnt 
have been provided. 
Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing loans 3, 4 and 5 to Mr E wouldnt put him in a worse position by 
increasing his overall debts. So for these reasons, Im planning on upholding Mr Es 
complaint about these loans.  
I think Mr E was aware he was taking high cost loans on terms he seemed happy to agree to 
at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold 
Mr Es complaint. And I havent seen enough to make me think that Loans 2 Go acted 
towards Mr E in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not intending to award 
any additional redress. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr E said that, although he has no additional information he can send, he still feels that if 
Loans 2 Go had done other checks he wouldnt have been as worse off. 
Loans 2 Go has confirmed that it has no additional points to add and it will await my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, after taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to 
my provisional decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr E to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has had to pay interest (and possibly other fees or charges) on loans that shouldnt 
have been provided to him. 
The loans have been repaid so Loans 2 Go should do the following:
A) refund everything Mr E paid over the principal loan amounts for loans 3, 4 and 5 
and repay this to Mr E with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
B) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in relation to these 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint about loans 3, 4 and 5 and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the 
steps set out above to put things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman