DRN-1321951
 
The complaint
I, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its bank account resulting 
in difficulties and inconvenience.
What happened
HSBC wrote to I in September 2018 to say it was carrying out a safeguard review to help to 
avoid fraud and to comply with regulatory requirements. It said that it needed to confirm the 
information it held about I. Although I completed online forms about its business these were 
rejected by HSBC. And HSBC closed the account in September 2019. I says that it thought it 
had complied with the requirements and did not get a copy of a notice of closure letter in 
June 2019 or see any further online banking banners about this. It is unhappy that it was 
first told in September 2019 that it could have more time but then that this was wrong as it 
had a previous extension agreed. The only option for it was to open another account and this 
delayed its access to the money it held with HSBC.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He thought that HSBC 
had set out what it needed from I and made it aware of the deadlines.
He set out in detail what happened over the year before the account was closed. I originally 
was given 84 days to complete the information. But when it had not done so a first notice of 
closure was issued with the account due to close on 20 February 2019. I did complete an 
online form but HSBC said that there were inconsistencies and that it was unsuccessful in 
contacting I about it. The account was inhibited but HSBC then agreed to give I further time - 
to 22 May 2019 - to complete the information. I submitted a further form but there were still 
issues. HSBC again tried to contact I in March 2019 to discuss this. It was unable to do so 
and on 24 June 2019 it sent a new closure letter with a closure date of 2 September 2019. 
Although I said it did not receive the letter it was correctly addressed and a system record of 
this and other letters being sent was held by HSBC.
In September 2019 the account was again blocked. HSBC initially wrongly told I that it could 
have more time to complete the information. But realising that it had already given I an 
extension in the past it then said that this was not going to be possible. So the account was 
closed.
I did not agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed saying that it completely disagreed 
and would be making further comments. It has not sent anything further in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think I has had a reasonable period of time to submit anything further and I understand 
from what its already said what the issues are.I can understand the consequences of Is account being closed. That resulted in an inability 
to make payments. And as I understand it I then applied for a new account in branch. That 
meant there was a delay in it being able to receive and use the substantial funds that had 
been held by HSBC in its other account. So Ill be considering if the decision to close that 
account was reasonable.
HSBC needs to ensure that it complies with all legal and regulatory requirements. The 
safeguard exercise was undertaken for a large number of its customers - not just I - and 
there were common processes applied as its shown here.
I agree that the notices about the requirements and Is account were correctly sent to the 
address HSBC had on record. I says that it either cannot recall or did not get some of them. 
And so it found itself in the position of its account being restricted on two occasions. It had 
responded to a first notice of closure that had been sent in December 2018. But there were 
problems with the information submitted. That led to the account being inhibited and as our 
investigator has set out the deadlines being extended. I says that it considered it had 
provided all the information and did not know anything else was required. So Ive looked in 
detail about what happened at that time based on the case notes of HSBC.
These set out the following:
28 February 2019 I resubmits the form
1 March 2019  HSBC added comments to the online form for I setting out there 
were problems with the submission including that the trading and correspondence 
address differed to that on the online form
6 March 2019 attempt to contact I and message left
11 March 2019 attempt to contact I and message left
12 March 2019 I sends an email asking for a call back at 15:30
12 March 2019 two attempts to call I made and email sent
 
There is no further contact recorded and on 24 June 2019 HSBC sent I the notice of closure. 
This gave a number for it to contact to retain the account and explained what would 
otherwise happen.
It was up to HSBC to consider whether I had satisfied all its requirements. HSBCs shown 
that it didnt consider this had happened by the time the account was closed. It was fairly Is 
responsibility to meet the requirements and the discrepancies Ive seen did not seem to 
relate to very complex information. I dont think I can hold HSBC responsible for I not 
receiving all the notices. And even if it didnt get all of them Im afraid I think that HSBC 
made reasonable efforts to tell I what it still needed. 
There was some confusion when the account was inhibited in September 2019. And it 
seems an offer of an extension of 30 days was only made to I on the basis that it was the 
first one. That was a mistake and so the offer was removed two days later. That was 
unfortunate but HSBC did not have to offer an extension. In my view it had already allowed a 
reasonable period of time to meet the requirements. 
I was successful in opening a further account. That meant that any know your customer and 
information requirements must have been met. So there was no fundamental issue with I 
having an account. It comes down to the information not being provided through the 
safeguard process. Ive set out what I think about that. And so I dont find that HSBC needs 
to do anything further. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman