DRN-4034475
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Openwork Limited to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). He believes the advice was potentially unsuitable for him and could have caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr L contacted Openwork in November 2020 to discuss his pension and retirement needs, 
specifically around his DB pension schemes. 
Openwork explained how its advice process worked in its Safeguarded Pension Benefits 
Advice Service booklet. This set out that it would provide advice in three stages. The first 
was an initial triage looking at whether Mr L met its criteria. It then provided an abridged 
advice service where Openwork would gather the relevant information and would either 
make a recommendation not to transfer safeguarded benefits or say it is unclear at that 
stage whether a transfer was suitable. If the outcome was that it was unclear, Mr L could 
then opt to receive full advice. The booklet explained that the first two stages would be 
provided free of charge. There would be a fee for full advice, which was £7,500 plus 1% of 
the transfer value of the pension over £250,000 per DB scheme being considered. The 
booklet explained the fee was payable in full before full advice was provided but that if a 
transfer was recommended and went ahead, Mr L could choose for the fee to be paid from 
the pension pot, with the amount he paid upfront being refunded.
Openwork met with Mr and Mrs L and spoke with them over the phone to gather information 
about their circumstances and objectives and has provided a copy of both the information it 
recorded and recordings of the available calls. Mr L was 58, in good health, married with two 
grown children. Mr L was working and was in fact about to change roles.
Mrs L had taken redundancy the year prior and was receiving an income of approximately 
£12,000 per year from a DB scheme pension she held  the benefits of which were 
guaranteed and would continue to escalate. During a call with Openwork it was mentioned 
there was the possibility of her returning to work on a part-time basis, but this was not 
confirmed. She was due to begin receiving state pension approximately four years later and 
held another small money purchase pension. 
Their combined monthly income at the time comfortably exceeded their outgoings. They 
owned their home outright with no mortgage. And they held savings and investments, which 
Mr L estimated during one of the calls totalled approximately £100,000 but in the written fact 
find were more conservatively estimated as being worth approximately £87,000.
Mr L explained he had several pensions. Information was primarily recorded about two DB 
pensions and two smaller money purchase pensions. The larger of Mr Ls DB pensions 
(which Ill call pension A) had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £720,673.93. It 
was estimated that, from age 65, this would provide either a full pension of £36,700.87 per 
year or tax-free cash (TFC) of £166,201 and a reduced pension of £27,830. His other DB 
pension (which Ill call pension B) had a CETV of £249,220 and from age 65 would pay an 
annual pension of £9,355.18 or TFC of £48,958 and a reduced pension of £7,343.75. The 
benefits under the DB schemes were again guaranteed and would escalate in retirement. 
The money purchase schemes were valued at approximately £65,000 and £8,400 
respectively.
Mr L explained, in conversation with Openwork, that he intended to continue to work until 
age 65, so his income needs would be met by his salary in that time. It was noted he and 
Mrs L anticipated needing an income of £33,660 per year in retirement. Openwork asked 
Mr L why he was interested in potentially transferring benefits at that time. Mr L said he 
wanted flexibility and to have one of his DB schemes in his control. He was interested in 
taking a monetary value then because he had other means that mitigated for any growth he 
might forego. Openwork also recorded that Mr L wanted to ensure he, Mrs L and his grown 
children received good value from his DB scheme and ensure, if he died, his family had 
access to the remaining funds. So, he wanted advice in relation to his two DB schemes. Mr L 
explained that he had experience of investments and dealing in shares. And Openwork 
recorded that he considered himself an experienced investor and wanted to take control of 
his pension and investment decisions, although at the same time he wanted to use the 
services of a discretionary fund manager (DFM). Openwork also carried out an assessment 
of Mr Ls attitude to risk, which it deemed to be adventurous. 
Mr L signed a fee agreement with Openwork for full advice in January 2021, confirming his 
agreement to pay the relevant fee if things progressed that far and that hed read the 
Safeguarded Pension Benefits Advice Service booklet. It was agreed that the fee would be 
£15,000 for advice  a discount of £4,706.74 on the fee that would otherwise be due under 
the relevant charging structure based on the CETVs of the two DB schemes being 
considered. Mr L also indicated at that stage, if a transfer was recommended and went 
ahead, hed like the fee to be covered from the pension fund.
On 5 March 2021, Openwork gave its abridged advice. It said it was unclear whether Mr L 
should retain his DB scheme benefits in relation to both schemes.
Mr L agreed to proceed with full advice in relation to both DB schemes and the fee was paid 
upfront.
On 20 April 2021, Openwork advised Mr L to transfer his pension benefits from pension A 
into a SIPP and use a DFM to manage the investment. It did not recommend that he transfer 
pension B. The suitability report said Openwork was satisfied that Mr and Mrs L could meet 
their retirement income needs from a combination of their state pension entitlements, Mrs Ls 
DB scheme that was already in payment, Mr Ls money purchase pensions and pension B. 
So, retaining pension B was in his interests. But pension A was surplus to their retirement 
requirements and as a result, Mr L could afford to give up the guaranteed benefits it provided 
to meet his other objectives. It said a transfer allowed Mr L to take control of his pension and 
achieve a monetary value for the benefits accrued so far. It would provide flexibility in how 
benefits could be taken and lump sum death benefits for his dependents, rather than a 
spouses pension which wouldnt benefit his children, which it said was a priority for Mr L. 
Openwork also said there was the possibility that greater TFC would be available from age 
65 under the SIPP, depending on the level of growth achieved. Openwork was also to 
provide ongoing advice in relation to the pension, for a fee. Mr L applied to proceed with the 
transfer, as per Openworks advice. 
I understand the funds transferred to the SIPP provider in mid-June 2021. Mr L requested 
the maximum available TFC be paid to him. Openwork said it would need to provide advice 
and sign off the relevant SIPP paperwork. This was done on 29 June 2021. The letter noted 
Openwork hadnt been aware that Mr L intended to take TFC from the SIPP immediately, but 
understood he now needed this for the potential purchase of an overseas property. It said, as the transfer was recommended on the basis pension A was surplus to Mr Ls retirement 
requirements, drawing the TFC wouldnt impact Mr Ls retirement plans.
Mr L wrote to Openwork in July 2021, terminating its ongoing advice service as he said he 
didnt see the need to pay for this given there was a DFM looking after his pension and his 
own extensive experience. The letter also said he was unhappy with the service provided. 
He said the adviser had told him when he first contacted it that the process would take 
approximately three months, but it actually took nine months, and he was unhappy with a 
number of administrative issues with the advice process. He also said hed made the adviser 
aware from the outset that he intended to draw the maximum available TFC immediately, 
and the purpose for this.  
Mr Ls complaint about delays was referred to our service under a different reference 
number and dealt with separately.
While that other complaint was ongoing, Mr L raised further concerns. He said having 
reviewed documents he held he believed he had been overcharged as the abridged advice 
report indicate the fee for advice was likely to be approximately £12,206.74. He also said 
hed been told this would be covered from the pension and hed been pressured into paying 
this by the adviser. Mr L also said, having now spoken to his new financial adviser, he didnt 
think Openworks recommendation was suitable for him  as the cost of purchasing 
equivalent benefits to those hed given up and the growth that would be required of the SIPP 
to achieve this were unrealistic. 
Openwork considered this as a separate complaint, as it hadnt been asked to respond to 
these issues previously. It said the advice had been given based on a full consideration of 
Mr Ls circumstances. It also said that the suitability report set out the cost of replicating the 
benefits being given up, but as Mr L had other priorities, it still thought the advice was 
suitable. On the matter of the fee it said its documentation had been clear from the outset 
this would be paid upfront and it didnt think Mr L had been pressured. It also noted that the 
fee of £15,000 included a discount, as two DB schemes were considered and the total cost 
under its charging structure wouldve been in excess of £19,000 otherwise. It said Mr L had 
elected, after the advice was discussed, not to receive a rebate of the fee from the pension 
and had confirmed this with its adviser.
Mr L asked our service to look into whether the advice was suitable. One of our Investigators 
considered the complaint. He thought it should be upheld. Openwork disagreed. 
The complaint was referred to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in May 2023 
explaining that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Below are extracts from my 
provisional findings, explaining why.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The advice given by Openwork was for Mr L to transfer one of his DB schemes  pension A. 
And so, this decision will largely refer to that scheme  as Mr Ls complaint concerns 
whether that advice was correct.
Openwork carried out transfer value analysis, as required by the regulator. And it did so in respect of both DB schemes. As part of this, it was required to produce a transfer value 
comparator (TVC)  an estimate of what sum of money the consumer would need now to 
invest at a risk-free return to provide equivalent benefits to the DB scheme at retirement. In 
addition, as part of its analysis, Openwork also calculated the rate Mr Ls pension fund would 
need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the 
critical yield).
Openwork has said that Mr L did not intend to take equivalent benefits to those the DB 
scheme provided at retirement (which would best be approximated by an annuity). So has 
argued that referring to the critical yield is of little relevance and that our Investigator placed 
too much weight on this, ignoring the other analysis it produced. 
Ive taken on board what Openwork as said. But the DB scheme wouldve provided 
guaranteed benefits to Mr L from retirement. The TVC and critical yield serve to illustrate the 
value of those benefits, and how likely it is that they can be replicated. And I think those are 
important considerations. Id also add, while Openwork has referred to the hurdle rate that 
was calculated as part of its analysis, the analysis report explains that this assumes no 
spouses pension, guarantee of benefits or escalation while in payment. So, this doesnt in 
my view illustrate the growth that would be required of a pension to match the benefits being 
given up on a like for like basis.
Mr L was being offered a CETV of £720,673.93. The TVC estimated Mr L may need to invest 
£1,301,933.70 on a risk-free basis in order to replicate the benefits the DB scheme would 
provide at age 65. And the difference would need to be achieved by growth until he retired. 
The critical yield to match the full pension Mr L could take at age 65 was calculated to be 
12.66%. Or to provide equivalent TFC and a reduced pension 10.01%.
Ive considered the regulators standard projection rates, which have remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate being 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, 
and the lower projection rate 2%. Mr L was 58 at the time of the advice, so only had six full 
years to retirement. I accept that he had an adventurous attitude to risk  I think that is clear 
from the information recorded and what Ive herd in his discussions with Openwork. But even 
so, I think achieving the growth required year on year during those six years to replicate the 
benefits the DB scheme guaranteed to provide from age 65 was highly unlikely. And so, I 
dont think hed realistically have been able to replicate the benefits he was giving up by 
transferring.
Openwork has referred to its analysis indicating TFC and a pension equivalent to the 
reduced pension offered by the DB scheme at normal retirement could be drawn from the 
fund if a growth rate of 2.94% was achieved. And that this could last Mr L into his 90s. But 
the modelling Ive seen, within the transfer analysis, indicates the sustainable pension 
income was below that the DB scheme guaranteed to provide. And in any event the benefits 
under the DB scheme were guaranteed for life  regardless of how long Mr L lived. So, I 
dont think this supports that Mr L couldve replicated the benefits the DB scheme offered.
But Im satisfied that the advice to transfer wasnt given on the basis of replicating the 
benefits being given up. And the advice Openwork gave explained this. Details of the TVC 
were provided in the suitability report  with the difference between the CETV and this figure 
set out. The appendix to the suitability report Understanding Your Existing Safeguarded 
Benefits also set out the critical yields and explained that achieving these were challenging 
and make it very unlikely the same level of income could be sustained through a personal 
pension arrangement. Rather the advice was based on Mr L having sufficient other 
guaranteed retirement provisions to meet his needs meaning pension A was surplus to his 
requirements and could be used to achieve his other objectives. The FCA notes that where a consumer isnt going to rely on the benefits of a DB scheme 
pension to meet their needs that a transfer might be suitable.
It was recorded here that Mr and Mrs L expected to need an income of £33,660 in 
retirement. And this was confirmed with Mr and Mrs L by Openwork in the calls Ive listened 
to. Mr L intended to continue to work until age 65. Im satisfied he was clear about this with 
Openwork, particularly in the fact find call Ive heard where he and Mrs L explained their 
circumstances. So, their income need would be met by his salary until he retired. In 
retirement, Mrs L wouldve continued to receive the guaranteed benefits her DB scheme 
provided, which were £12,000 per year at the time of the advice and wouldve continued to 
escalate. Mr L couldve received the guaranteed benefits that pension B wouldve provided 
at age 65  a starting pension of approximately £9,355.18 per year, or £7,343.75 if he took 
TFC. And those benefits wouldve also escalated in retirement. These amounts, combined 
with their estimated state pension entitlements  which again once in payment were 
guaranteed, exceeded the £33,660 annual income figure that was discussed. So, they had 
guaranteed benefits that would meet their needs, outside of Pension A. And this is before 
even accounting for the several other money purchase schemes that they held, any further 
retirement provisions Mr L made before retiring and their savings and investments. 
Mr and Mrs L also discussed with Openwork, what would happen if one of them were to 
pass away. And agreed that the sole survivor would likely require an income of £20,000 per 
year. The surviving party would retain their DB scheme benefits and state pension 
entitlement. And theyd receive a guaranteed escalating 50% spouses pension from the 
other parties DB scheme after their death. Which would appear to again be sufficient to meet 
their stated needs before even accounting for their own money purchase schemes and being 
the beneficiary of the other parties money purchase schemes, savings and investments or 
life insurance. 
So, based on Openworks understanding and assessment of all of Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that pension A was surplus to 
requirements.
And Im satisfied Mr L agreed that an income from pension A was not required and so it was 
surplus to his requirements. This was discussed with Openwork, with Mr L noting that he had 
enough by way of other provisions to meet his needs and that his understanding of this was 
the motivation for him seeking advice. And this was all reiterated in the written 
correspondence Ive seen, including the suitability report. 
Openwork directly asked Mr L why he was looking to transfer. To which he said he wanted 
flexibility. He mentioned the potential to be able to take out sums when he needed  
although in the conversations Ive listened to and the written information Ive seen, it doesnt 
appear that an intention to access a lump sum immediately was discussed. Mr L was also 
clear he wanted to have input and some control of how the pension was invested, so he 
could use his prior investment experience, combined with that of a specialist manager. It was 
also recorded that Mr L was keen to create a further legacy for his family in the event of his 
death, that could be passed to his children and not die with him or Mrs L. 
I dont think any of those objectives were necessarily a need for Mr L. Rather they were 
things that he liked the idea of or wanted to achieve. But at the same time, they werent 
unreasonable aims. And Im satisfied that Mr L was motivated to achieve his objectives. In 
the fact-finding conversation Ive heard, he explained that hed been researching potential 
advisers for a while, and it was Mr L that initiated the advice process. Its also worth bearing 
in mind that Mr L complained separately about how long the transfer process took  
indicating he was keen for it to complete. And given that the analysis indicated that the DB 
scheme was surplus to requirements, in his specific circumstances I dont think transferring to achieve these objectives was unsuitable.
Openworks recommendation allowed these objectives to be achieved. The SIPP allowed 
Mr L to drawdown benefits flexibly, as and when he chose to, or gave him the option of 
leaving the funds invested  something he indicated he was interested in. Whereas under 
the DB scheme, once he began drawing benefits, hed be unable to make any changes to 
these. The funds being invested in a SIPP gave him the option of directly controlling 
investment decisions. And a DFM provided him the specialist expertise he indicated a 
preference for. And, with the funds invested in a SIPP, he could nominate beneficiaries who 
would on his death have access to the fund value in full.
Im also satisfied, based on what Mr L explained to Openwork about his investment 
experience, and the information provided to him as part of the advice process, that his 
financial knowledge was such that he had a good understanding the relevant risks. And that 
he made an informed choice to go ahead with the transfer. I also think, based on his 
adventurous attitude to risk  which I again am satisfied was recorded correctly  that these 
risks were appropriate to his circumstances.
Openwork also made it clear that the use of a DFM meant the annual management cost for 
the SIPP would be greater  as this was outlined in the suitability report. And Im satisfied 
Mr L was aware of this  as in the advice call Ive heard he acknowledged this and confirmed 
he wanted to engage the service of a DFM. So, he made an informed decision to proceed.
So, taking everything into account, in the specific circumstances here, while a transfer meant 
Mr L was unlikely to replicate the benefits being given up, I think based on what Ive seen so 
far that the advice was still suitable for Mr L. He wasnt going to be reliant on the benefits 
being given up meeting his retirement needs. The advice allowed him to achieve his stated 
objectives. And I think the information indicates Mr L made an informed decision to proceed, 
after Openwork clearly explained the reasons for its advice.
Ive thought about the fact Openwork were looking at two DB schemes  so a 
recommendation could potentially have been made to transfer pension B and retain the 
benefits of pension A. But as Ive explained, pension A was surplus to his requirements, on 
the basis of pension B being left as it was, so I think making a recommendation in respect of 
that pension was suitable. And transferring the smaller pension instead wouldve meant that 
the guaranteed pension income he wouldve received in retirement wouldve been 
significantly more than he needed  potentially resulting in him incurring income tax at a 
greater rate than he needed to. It would also have meant that the potential legacy left 
through the transferred policy wouldve been significantly smaller. And it wouldve meant the 
TFC Mr L couldve accessed wouldve been significantly less. And, while I havent seen 
evidence that a need for TFC was discussed with Openwork, Mr L has been clear that this 
was a motivation for him seeking advice  and that he wanted access to a large sum to 
potentially fund an overseas property purchase. Which transferring pension B wouldnt have 
achieved. So, I think Openwork recommending he retain the benefits in pension B and 
transfer pension A was suitable, based on his specific circumstances.
I also think, from the conversations Ive heard and information Ive seen, Mr L had a firm 
understanding of what he wanted and had carefully considered the reasons for this. He 
clearly had experience investing. And he seems to have concluded prior to holding 
discussions with Openwork that he didnt require both of his DB schemes. This considered 
position, coupled with him wanting to release a large sum of TFC for a specific purpose, 
means I think he may always have sought to proceed with the transfer, even if Openwork 
had recommended against it. 
Turning to the issue Mr L has raised regarding the advice fee, Mr L has said he was overcharged, as the abridged advice refers to a fee of £12,206.74. But that was only in 
respect of advice on pension A. The letter also refers to a fee of £7,500 being payable in 
regard to advice being received on pension B. The amount Mr L paid, £15,000, was less 
than the combined total of these fees, after a concession was agreed with Openwork  
which I think was fair. And was in line with the fee agreement Mr L signed. 
The written information that was provided to Mr L was clear that this fee was payable 
upfront, in the event he wished Openwork to provide full advice. The information also 
explained that this could be refunded if a transfer happened, by deducting the amount from 
the transferred funds. And while Mr L says he was given conflicting information by the 
adviser and felt pressured into paying the fee, I think Openwork was clear and consistent in 
the written information it provided  which Mr L acknowledged in one of the calls Ive heard 
that he read. And I think Mr L was also aware he was not obliged to proceed beyond the 
abridged advice. I can see Mr L initially expressed an interest in receiving a refund of the fee 
from the policy. But from what Ive seen, he seems to have changed his mind and opted 
against receiving a refund. So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Openwork has made 
an error.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Openwork didnt provide any further comments for me to consider.
Mr L disagreed with my provisional decision. He said he was concerned that I had decided 
matters based on what I thought, and the balance of probabilities rather than Openwork 
having satisfied the burden of proof. 
Mr L said it was not made clear to him how well the new pension would need to perform to 
match the benefits that he was giving up. And, although I was satisfied that the advice wasnt 
based on improving on the DB scheme benefits, Mr L felt this meant that he shouldnt have 
been advised to transfer. And that was the whole point of his complaint  that it was not in 
his interests to give these benefits up, whether the pension transferred was surplus to his 
requirements or not. Mr L also said, while Id referred to other assets held this had nothing to 
do with the wrong advice having been given. 
Mr L noted he was required to obtain advice in relation to the pension, so considered my 
comment that hed researched advisers to be invalid. And regarding the charge for advice, 
he did not agree that the fee charged was reduced, he still considered hed been 
overcharged for the service provided and thought that the charging structure used by 
Openwork did not meet FCA requirements regarding contingent charging.
Lastly Mr L informed us of a condition he suffers from and has been diagnosed for which 
impacts his judgement. He said he now believes this played a part in him transferring his 
pension and doesnt agree therefore that he made an informed decision to proceed, 
although he noted Openwork was not aware of this at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think it is worth explaining a little more about our services role. We are an informal 
dispute resolution service. We are an alternative to a court of law, but we dont replicate its procedures. We decide cases on the basis of what we consider to be fair and reasonable  
having account for relevant laws, regulations and codes of practice and the evidence 
provided by both parties. And this includes, where information is incomplete or there is a 
disagreement, giving our opinion and considering matters on the balance of probability. Mr L 
has said my considering the case on this basis is potentially different to how our Investigator 
previously considered matters. But I can confirm this is not the case. I considered matters on 
the same basis. I simply reached a different opinion based on the information and evidence.
And having considered everything again and taken into account Mr Ls comments, Im not 
inclined to depart from my provisional findings.
Mr L has said that Openwork didnt make it clear that hed likely be worse off as a result of 
the transfer. But the suitability report gave a visual comparison of the CETV of his benefits 
with the estimated cost of replicating these, indicating a difference of over £640,000. It also 
discussed the risks of the recommendation and said the level of income might be less than 
the benefits you would have been entitled to had you remained within the final salary 
scheme.
The appendix to the suitability report Understanding your existing safeguarded pension 
benefits also set out the benefits the DB scheme was expected to provide. It talked about 
what a critical yield was, describing it as the estimated investment return (after charges) that 
must be achieved for the retirement benefits in a personal pension arrangement to at least 
match those offered by the [DB scheme]). And after setting out the critical yield for retiring at 
65  which was Mr Ls recorded intention  it said these critical yields seem challenging and 
make it very unlikely that the same level of income can be sustained through a personal 
pension arrangement. So, I do think Openwork provided clear information about this risk.
Mr L says the advice shouldve been solely based on the best option for his retirement 
income. But this isnt the only consideration for a business when providing advice. Other 
considerations, after taking account of all of the relevant circumstances, may mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. And that is why taking into 
account Mr Ls stated retirement needs and his financial circumstances as a whole, including 
his other retirement provisions, is an important consideration when thinking about whether 
advice was suitable. 
As I said in my provisional findings, pension A provided guaranteed benefits. And I think it 
was highly unlikely Mr L would improve on the benefits the DB scheme wouldve provided by 
transferring  which again the suitability report indicated. But, while I know Mr L does not 
agree, this wasnt the only thing Openwork had to consider. And as Ive explained, it was 
reasonable for Openwork to conclude that the benefits of pension A were surplus to Mr Ls 
retirement requirements  as the other assets and provisions which he and Mrs L held 
provided sufficient guaranteed income to meet their expected needs. And again, the FCA 
identified such a scenario, where benefits are not going to be relied upon, as one where a 
transfer could be suitable.
Having concluded, fairly in my view, that pension A was not required to meet Mr Ls income 
requirements, it was reasonable here for Openwork to consider therefore if a transfer to 
meet Mr Ls other stated objectives was appropriate. Im satisfied those objectives were 
something Mr L had put thought to  which is why I still think it is relevant that hed 
researched financial advisers. Because, while I agree he was required to take financial 
advice, this research, which he told Openwork about over the phone, in my view 
demonstrates that the objectives were not spur of the moment decisions. His stated 
objectives as Ive said, were reasonable. And the transfer allowed these to be achieved. So, 
taking everything into account, even though Mr L was unlikely to be able to achieve the 
same level of benefits by transferring, I still think in his specific circumstances the recommendation given here by Openwork was suitable.
In respect of the charge for advice, I still dont think Openwork has done anything wrong. 
The fee for full advice was payable before that service was provided. And the information 
available indicates that it was payable regardless of the outcome of that advice. So, it wasnt 
contingent on Openwork recommending a transfer. 
The fee Openwork charged here, £15,000, was in line with the fee agreement Mr L 
completed. And, while Mr L doesnt agree this included a discount, all of the evidence Ive 
been provided suggests otherwise and that, under Openworks recorded standard fee 
structure, a higher fee couldve been payable. And while I know Mr L is dissatisfied with the 
service provided by Openwork and now feels the cost of this advice was not fair, he has 
been charged in line with the agreement made at the time.
Lastly, Ive taken on board what Mr L has said about his judgment being potentially impacted 
by a condition he has. And I thank him for sharing this information as I understand from what 
hes said that he was reluctant to do so. But Im looking at whether Openwork acted fairly or 
did anything wrong at the time of the advice. And as Mr L acknowledged, Openwork was 
unaware of this condition, indeed it appears Mr L was unaware at the time also. So, I cant 
reasonably say that Openwork needed to act differently in terms of how it provided the 
advice to Mr L. And for the reasons Ive already explained I think the advice Openwork gave 
to Mr L was suitable in the circumstances and that it put Mr L in a position to make an 
informed decision. And overall, I think Mr L proceeded having made an informed choice. So, 
I cant reasonably say Openwork has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman