DRN-2227354
The complaint
Mr B complains about MCE Insurance Company Limiteds settlement of a claim after his 
motorcycle was stolen.
What happened
Mr B has a motorcycle insurance policy with MCE. He made a claim after his motorcycle was 
stolen.
MCE initially declined the claim. They said Mr B had made a misrepresentation when he 
bought the policy when he said his bike was kept in a locked garage. It was kept in an 
alleyway with a locked gate. 
MCE later accepted the options given to Mr B when he completed his application didnt 
include his circumstances and he had ticked the box relating to the closest option. So, they 
accepted the claim.
They then settled the claim proportionally, because Mr B hadnt declared in his application 
that hed be using the bike to commute. This reduced the settlement figure by a very small 
amount (less than 3%). And Mr B has accepted that.
Mr B complained to MCE because he wasnt happy theyd taken an excess of £1,550 off the 
settlement figure. They paid him around £700.
MCE didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They pointed out the excess had been clear when Mr B 
took the policy. Mr B wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. He says he 
didnt understand that an excess would be applied if his bike were stolen when he bought 
the policy.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think MCE had done anything wrong. Mr B 
disagreed and asked for a final decision form an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a relatively simple question for me in making this decision  did MCE do enough to 
ensure Mr B was aware of the terms and conditions applying to his policy  and in particular, 
the amount of the excess  before he bought it? 
If they did, then I cant say that theyve acted in any way unreasonably or unfairly towards 
Mr B. If not, then Mr B can rightly feel aggrieved and could expect MCE to do something to 
put things right.
Mr B bought his policy through a price comparison website specialising in motorcycle 
insurance. Ive been through the application process on that website to understand the 
experience Mr B had.
The website requires the potential customer to enter their details. As part of that process, the 
customer is invited to include an acceptable voluntary excess (in addition to any compulsory 
excess). This defaults to £500, but there is a drop-down option to change that value  which 
is immediately obvious. 
Once all details are entered, the customer can ask the site to generate quotes from different 
insurers. The various quotes are then presented in a table. The first column lists the 
insurers. The second column states what the compulsory and voluntary excesses are on the 
policy being offered  and very clearly states a total excess. This isnt hidden, the excess 
column is prominent, and the descriptions are very clear.
When a particular quote is selected, the customer is taken to the insurer to confirm the 
purchase.
MCE have provided evidence to show that Mr B received an email from them after buying 
his policy via this route. They sent Mr B a policy schedule, a statement of fact and the policy 
document. Mr B had the option to cancel the policy within 14 days of he wasnt happy with 
any aspect of it.
The schedule sets out very clearly the details of the vehicle insured and the policyholder etc. 
It also has as section which sets out any special terms, endorsements or conditions which 
apply. This very clearly says MCE2 - £1,550 applies to Mr Bs policy.
The policy booklet states that MCE2 relates to the Fire and theft excess. And it says MCE 
will not pay the first X amount of any claim  where X is specified in the schedule  if the 
motorcycle is stolen or damaged by fire.
So, taking into account Mr Bs experience on the comparison website  where the excess 
was clearly specified - and the documents then sent to him by MCE, I think MCE have taken 
reasonable steps to ensure that Mr B was aware of the terms and conditions of his policy 
before he confirmed the purchase.
Mr B says he wasnt aware of the excess. I dont disbelieve him. But my decision has to be 
about whether MCE acted reasonably to make Mr B aware of the terms of the policy, not 
whether Mr B was in fact aware. And Im satisfied they presented the facts to Mr B in an 
open, clear and reasonable fashion  with an option to pull out of the purchase if he wasnt 
happy with the terms.
Mr B says his first language isnt English  and something may have been lost in translation. 
But I dont think MCE could have been aware of that during the transaction. And I note that 
the comparison website quotes also gave  for each insurer  a phone number to call if the 
customer wanted to discuss and/or buy the policy over the phone.
In short, if Mr B didnt understand what an excess was, he had the opportunity to talk to 
MCE about that either before he accepted the quote on the comparison website, or after 
hed received his policy documents form MCE and within the 14-day cooling off period.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman