DRN-3117065
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z have complained that the change in charging structure The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) has made has resulted in the cost of their overdraft increasing. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Z complained to RBS about the change in its pricing structure of its overdrafts. 
They say the change in rate makes it more difficult for them to pay off their overdraft. They 
would like their overdraft converted to a loan with a better rate.
RBS says the change in the rate was due to new government legislation and that its acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account.. One of our adjudicators looked into their 
concerns and eventually reached the conclusion RBS hadnt done anything wrong or treated 
Mr and Mrs Z unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs Z 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Zs complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Ive seen that Mr Z is complaining about the proportionality of the charges applied to his 
account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered 
whether the various amounts RBS charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at RBS various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs Z if 
it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr and Mrs Zs account in circumstances where it 
was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr and Mrs Z were 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where RBS didnt treat Mr and Mrs Z fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that RBS did treat Mr and Mrs Z unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Mr and Mrs Zs statements I cant see anything 
to suggest that RBS ought to have realised they might have been experiencing financial 
difficulty prior to it being notified of this. 
Mr and Mrs Z may argue their regular use of their overdraft was in itself an indication that 
they were struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over 
their expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-
contractual and discretionary transactions. 
There were regular deposits of salary and cash transfers into the account and up until 2019 
the overdraft limit only represented about 5% of the value of the money coming into the 
account. When applying for a loan Mr Z also declared surplus income of around half the 
value of the overdraft and had another account which was in credit by around half the 
overdraft value. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr and Mrs Z werent experiencing financial 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves which ought to have 
alerted RBS to any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to the account 
each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of his seeing a credit 
balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for RBS to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr and Mrs Zs account was being 
used. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs Z would like RBS to provide them with a loan on a better rate 
than the overdraft facility they currently have, but RBS are under no obligation to provide this 
just as Mr and Mrs Z are free to shop around if they arent happy with what is on offer.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that RBS treated Mr and Mrs Z 
unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs Z. But I hope they understand 
the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman