DRN-4010422
The complaint
Mrs L, in her capacity as administrator of Mr Ls estate and as the beneficiary of his pension, 
has complained that Mr L was given unsuitable advice by one of Pi Financial Ltds appointed 
representatives to switch his personal pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) 
and to then use an investment stockbroker (who Ill refer to as M) to manage his funds.
Mrs L has also complained that the appointed representative gave her incorrect information 
about how much tax shed have to pay if she took death benefits from Mr Ls pension.
For ease, rather than distinguishing between the appointed representative and Pi Financial 
Ltd I will simply refer to Pi throughout my decision.
What happened
In 2017 Pi issued a financial planning report to Mr L. Mr L was 54 the time and working part 
time. His selected retirement date was 67. The report said that Mr Ls objectives were:
to look at how his pensions were currently invested and at what opportunities there were 
in the market; he wanted to look at more exciting asset classes
to move his pension away from his current provider as he believed the charges on the 
current pension were significant and the fund value was decreasing
to achieve a minimum joint income of £1,500 in retirement.
Mr Ls attitude to risk was noted to be balanced and his capacity for loss was low. He had 
no other assets.
Pi recommended that Mr L switch his existing personal pension to a SIPP. The reasons 
given were so that he could have substantial control over the choice of investments, the fund 
would benefit from tax advantaged growth and benefits could be taken when Mr L turned 55.
It also recommended that Mr L use M to advise him on investments. It noted the following 
reasons for this:
Mr L would be able to access his pension flexibly and he would be able to invest his 
funds in a wider range of investments
by using M his portfolio could be developed and he would receive bespoke advice on his 
investments.
The report also noted that while the charges on the SIPP and underlying funds were likely to 
be higher than the current personal pension they could be recovered through higher growth.
Mr L followed the recommendation and switched his pension to the SIPP. The funds were 
invested with M from July 2017. The total value at the time of the switch was just under 
£46,000. M went on to recommend various investments to Mr L.
Mr L sadly passed away in September 2018. In January 2019 Mrs L asked Pi about taking 
death benefits from the pension. Pi told Mrs L that she would pay tax potentially at 45% on 
the pension and it advised her to keep the pension and use it for income when she retires.
In July 2020 Mrs L discovered that she could take the death benefits from Mr Ls pension 
tax-free, provided she did so within two years of Mr Ls death.
Mrs L complained to Pi as she felt the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr L. She also 
felt she was mis-advised about the tax implications of taking the death benefits.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, although he felt there 
were reasonable grounds to recommend switching pensions, he felt the recommendation to 
use M was unsuitable because Mr L was an inexperienced investor with a limited capacity 
for loss. He also felt Mrs L was mis-advised regarding the tax liability.
Our investigator recommended that Pi calculate the losses that Mr Ls estate had incurred as 
a result of its initial advice to use M  allowing for the fact that some the losses were caused 
by M. However, as Mrs L was aware that she could take the death benefits tax-free before 
the two-year time limit to do so had expired, he didnt think it was fair to hold Pi liable for any 
resulting loss from the incorrect advice shed been given in January 2019.
Pi disagreed with our investigators conclusion but nevertheless agreed to pay the 
recommended compensation. Mrs L disagreed as she felt the compensation wasnt sufficient 
to cover her losses. The matter has therefore been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L has made various comments about things that have happened and information she 
was given/not given by Pi, M and the SIPP provider. Shes also made a related complaint to 
us against M about its involvement in this matter. This complaint concerns Pis involvement 
and this decision only relates to Pis actions. Im looking at the complaint about M separately.
In respect of this complaint Ive concentrated on what I consider the be the root cause and 
crux of the problem  namely the initial advice given to Mr L to switch pensions and use M to 
manage the investments; and the later advice given to Mrs L to keep the pension because of 
the potential tax shed have to pay if she took the death benefits.
Advice to switch and use M to manage the investments
The report started by confirming that Mr L didnt have much investment knowledge and 
intimated that he hadnt kept track of his pension or how it was invested. It then went on to 
say that based on a questionnaire Mr L completed the advisor assessed Mr Ls attitude to 
risk as balanced  which the report then explained was typically where an investor had 
moderate levels of investment knowledge and would keep up to date with investment 
matters. The definition of a balanced investor didnt therefore appear to align with Mr Ls 
stated investment knowledge. It may have been that the questionnaire pointed to Mr L being 
a balanced investor but, in my view, there was a clear contradiction that I think needed 
exploring further. The report says there was discussion about risk and it pointing to a 
balanced profile but its not clear how the discrepancy was explored or explained.
Im not necessarily persuaded by any of the three reasons that Pi gave for recommending 
the SIPP. I say that because:in respect of Mr L having substantial control over the choice of investments  its not 
clear to me whether someone who didnt have much investment knowledge and hadnt 
previously monitored their investments really wanted or needed specific control over their 
investments
in respect of the fund benefiting from tax advantaged growth  any pension benefits from 
tax advantaged growth so its not clear to me how the recommended SIPP differed to 
Mr Ls existing pension in this respect
in respect of benefits being taken when Mr L turned 55  benefits can be taken from all 
pensions at age 55, so its not clear to me how the recommended SIPP differed to Mr Ls 
existing pension in this respect.
Costs were clearly important to Mr L so a key consideration should have been to keep 
charges as low as possible as these would affect growth. However, using M meant Mr L was 
incurring additional costs  as Ms charges were in addition to those being charged by Pi and 
the SIPP provider. There was reference to extra costs in the report, but only to the extent 
that Mr L believed the higher charges would be offset by higher growth. I dont think this was 
enough. Pi was making the recommendation so irrespective of what Mr L believed, I think it 
needed to carry out a cost versus benefit analysis and explain this to Mr L in terms he was 
likely to understand. I cant see that this was done.
The regulator made it clear in 2009 that a pension switch was unsuitable if the new 
arrangement incurred extra costs without good reason. I cant see that there was good 
reason for Mr L to incur the additional costs. I think Mr Ls main objective was to get the best 
possible returns on his pension within his risk profile as hed been disappointed with the 
performance of his existing funds, particularly given the charges. I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence that he really needed M to manage and recommend a wider range of 
investments to achieve that goal.
As mentioned above, it seems clear that Mr L didnt have any real investment experience  
the report said his investment experience predominantly came from savings accounts and 
his existing pensions (for which he would always seek advice). And as the existing pension 
was invested in a balance fund, which the report suggests Mr L didnt review that often, I 
think its reasonable to say he didnt have much active involvement in the underlying 
investments.
It appears that Mr L was looking for a wider range of investments so that he could have 
some diversification and spread of the risk. However, I think he would have benefitted more 
from a simple low-cost arrangement that was regularly monitored and reviewed by the 
advisor (who was charging Mr L an ongoing 1% fee) to ensure that it remained suitable for 
his needs. I dont think the arrangement with M, which incurred further charges was 
necessary. And I cant see that a simpler and cheaper option was properly explored.
I therefore conclude that the advice to use M to advise on the investments was unsuitable. 
Furthermore, I think my conclusion is supported by Pis own view of the situation. I say this 
because in a conversation Mrs L had with Pi around the time of her complaint Pis 
representative specifically said that using M just added another layer of complexity and 
charges, and he questioned what benefit using me provided for Mr/Mrs L.
Advice on keeping the pension
On 10 January 2019 Mrs L asked the advisor about taking death benefits from the pension 
as she was looking to buy her house. She specifically asked if she could have the money or 
if she had to keep it as a pension but in her name. The advisor replied the same day saying that Mrs L would pay tax on the pension (potentially at 45%) so his advice was to keep it and 
use it for income when she later retired.
In fact, Mrs L was able to take death benefits from Mr Ls pension tax-free as long as she did 
so within two years of Mr Ls death or of the pension provider being told a reasonable time 
later. The pension provider has told us it was notified of Mr Ls passing on 10 December 
2018. So Mrs L effectively had until December 2020 to claim the death benefits tax-free. 
Accordingly, I conclude that the information the advisor gave Mrs L about the potential tax 
liability was incorrect, and the advice he gave her about keeping the pension on that basis 
was unsuitable.
Similar to above, my conclusion appears to be supported by Pis own view of the situation. I 
say this because in the phone call I referred to above between Mrs L and Pi from the time of 
her complaint Pis representative specifically said that the information the advisor gave was 
incorrect.
Summary
For the reasons outlined above, I conclude that:
Pis recommendation for Mr L to use M to manage the investments in his pension was 
unsuitable, and
Pis advice to Mrs L about paying tax on the death benefits was unsuitable.
Putting things right
Had Mr L been suitably advised I dont think he would have invested through M because of 
the increased costs. And had Mrs L been correctly advised in January 2019 I think she 
would have taken the tax-free lump sum death benefits from the pension as she planned to 
use the money to put towards a property she was buying.
My aim is to put Mrs L as close as reasonably possible to the position she would have been 
in but for the unsuitable advice. I nevertheless need to take account of the fact that in the 
complaint about M Ive concluded that M (rather than Pi) was responsible for some losses 
that the pension might have suffered. The failings here are in respect of the advice to use M 
and the advice regarding paying tax on the death benefits. Other failings  eg unsuitable 
investments in some bonds and shares  arent Pis responsibility.
If Mrs L now chooses to take death benefits she will suffer a loss in comparison to the 
position in January 2019 as she will be liable for tax. However, I think its important to note 
that in July 2020 Mrs L discovered that the information shed been given in January 2019 
was incorrect and that she could get the death benefits tax-free, and she had until December 
2020 to claim the death benefits tax-free.
I appreciate the deadlines were tight and Mrs L was still sorting out other issues following 
Mr Ls passing. But in July 2020 she still had around five months in which to take the death 
benefits without having to pay any tax. I think this was a sufficient period of time for Mrs L to 
have started the process of obtaining the death benefits. So while Im satisfied that the 
advisor clearly misadvised Mrs L about the tax situation Im not persuaded that this 
ultimately led to her not being able to take the death benefits tax-free. Accordingly, I dont 
think there are grounds to make Pi pay any compensation in this respect.
With that in mind, I think its only appropriate to look at compensation for losses suffered due 
to Pis recommendation that Mr L use M to manage the investments in his pension.Our investigator used a formula to calculate how much he felt Pi should pay. However, the 
compensation figure he came to was only an approximation (eg the notional value of the 
investments on 15 January 2019 wasnt exact) in an attempt to bring the parties together to 
come to an agreeable settlement. We dont have the capacity or expertise to carry out the 
exact calculations. So rather than come to a precise figure my redress will be formulaic, 
along the same lines as that suggested by our investigator.
So, to compensate Mrs L fairly Pi should compare the performance of Mr L's investments (as 
specified in the table below) with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value 
is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. Pi should add interest as set out 
below and pay the final amount to Mrs L. It should also provide details of the calculation to 
Mrs L in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Interest
Sums 
invested 
(less what 
was invested 
in CFBL 
bonds and 
NQ Minerals 
shares)Still exists FTSE UK 
Private
Investors 
Income
Total Return
IndexDate of 
investments15 January 
20192.81% 
compound 
interest from 
29 
September 
2019 to the 
date of this 
decision
Its possible that income tax might be payable on any interest paid. If Pi considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest it should tell 
Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate in respect of 
interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
The actual value is the actual amount payable from the pension (excluding the CFBL bonds 
and NQ Minerals shares) as of 20 July 2020. The fair value is what the investment 
(excluding the CFBL bonds and NQ Minerals shares) would have been worth at the end date 
had it produced a return using the benchmark.
In addition to the above, Pi should pay Mrs L £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
I think the above compensation is fair because Pis reasonable liability is only for losses in 
respect of its advice to use M to manage the investments  its not fair to include the 
investment in the bonds and shares in the comparison calculation because Pi isnt 
responsible for the advice M gave Mr L in this respect. Its not possible to know precisely 
how Mr L would otherwise have invested the money, but it seems that he was willing to 
accept some risk to the investment in order to achieve capital, and the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index is a fair measure for someone who was prepared to 
take some risk to get a higher return.
I think 15 January is the appropriate end date for the comparison as this is when Mrs L 
would have taken the death benefits had she been correctly advised at the time. And I think 
20 July 2020 is the appropriate end date for the losses to be crystallised as this is when 
Mrs L discovered she could take the death benefits tax-free.
The 2.81% interest rate detailed is fair because this is the rate on Mrs Ls mortgage and the 
amount she borrowed was more than it otherwise would have been had she had the funds from the death benefits available to help fund the purchase of the property. The £150 is fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mrs L has suffered (eg the shock at 
discovering the initial advice was incorrect, the inconvenience of having a higher mortgage 
than would otherwise have been needed) as a result of the incorrect tax advice.
When responding to our investigator Mrs L made various comments on why she felt the 
compensation was insufficient. Some of the comments related to issues she felt were 
caused by Mr L being given incorrect advice about his investments. Ive dealt with those in 
my decision on the complaint against M.
Mrs L felt the two year time period for her to claim the death benefits was irrelevant and felt it 
was harsh to say that she knew within that period that she could have taken the death 
benefits tax-free. As I said earlier, my aim is to put Mrs L as close as reasonably possible to 
the position she would have been in but for Pis wrongdoing. And while it is clear that Pi 
misadvised her in January 2019 about the tax situation, I cant ignore the fact that this was 
rectified  albeit not by Pi  at a point when Mrs L still had sufficient time to claim the 
benefits tax-free. So I dont think its fair to make Pi pay Mrs L any compensation for the fact 
that she will now have to pay tax if she chooses to take the death benefits.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Pi Financial Ltd to settle this matter as outlined under the 
Putting things right heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman