DRN-3246189
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about advice she was given by Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (trading 
as Abbey Life) to transfer her former employers occupational pension schemes (OPS) and 
start a personal pension.
In bringing this complaint, Mrs B is represented by a claims management company that I will 
refer to as F.
What happened
The advice Mrs B complains about was provided in 1993. As part of the industrywide 
pension review set up by the Securities and Investment Board, the advice provided to Mrs B 
was reviewed. The review identified that Mrs B had suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
advice provided to her. Loss assessments were carried out and redress offered to Mrs B 
which she accepted. Phoenix paid compensation into Mrs Bs personal pension. 
Mrs B, through F, complained to Phoenix in 2020. In summary, F said: 
Phoenixs representative was subject to the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust 
Regulatory Organisation) rules. The representative needed to provide an investor 
such as Mrs B with all information relevant to those dealings and use their best 
endeavours to ensure the investor understood that information, and the nature of any 
risks involved.  And in assessing the suitability of the advice, the representative 
needed to understand the investors financial position, and any rights they might have 
under an OPS. 
It went on to say that Phoenix had common law duties as well. They also had a duty 
to disclose risks and alternatives to allow informed consent, as confirmed by the 
2015 Supreme Court case of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board. 
It also set out why it considered investment costs to have been an important factor in 
the advice process. It required redress be paid to Mrs B in line with Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance. 
It said Mrs B shouldnt have been exposed to the risks involved of a significantly 
lower retirement income, as a result of transferring out of her employers defined 
benefit scheme. She had been exposed to the risks of giving up inflation protected 
benefits, together with unnecessary fund risks. 
Phoenix upheld the complaint in part. It said the sale of Mrs Bs personal pension and the 
pension transfers of former employers pensions into it, had been included as part of the 
pension review. Loss assessments had been undertaken, and compensation paid in respect 
of the advice to transfer the deferred benefits in former employers pension schemes. 
At the time the pension policy was set up, Mrs B was a member of another defined benefit 
pension scheme with her then employer. The advice to transfer the benefits out of that 
scheme and to opt out of her current employers pension was also reviewed.  The review 
determined that Mrs H had been disadvantaged. Mrs H accepted the offers of compensation 
which were paid into the personal pension.
Phoenix said that notwithstanding this, it had considered the fund selection for Mrs Bs 
personal pension. It didnt think the investment of 50% of her money into its International 
fund was appropriate, as it was an adventurous fund by nature.  It compared the value of her 
pension on the basis it had been invested 100% in the managed fund from the date of the 
pension review calculation, with the current value of her pension. This it felt, was in line with 
a more balanced attitude to risk. The value of Mrs Bs pension was more than the notional 
value. So, it didnt believe Mrs B had been disadvantaged.  It also said that it was enclosing 
with its response, correspondence relating to the pension review.
The complaint was referred to our service. The case was looked into by one of our 
investigators. But they didnt uphold the complaint.  In summary, they said the suitability of 
the advice Mrs B had been given had already been reviewed as part of the pension review. 
And they said businesses werent required to update or recalculate reviews that had already 
been completed. And the review of how the compensation units had been applied showed 
that Mrs B was better off than if they had been allocated to the lower risk managed fund. 
F on behalf of Mrs B, didnt accept the investigators assessment.  It commented that:
The investigators assertion that the review only had to be carried out once was 
incorrect. It said the review had to be completed the review in line with regulatory 
requirements. 
It disputed the conclusion that the review had been carried out in accordance with the 
guidelines set out by the regulator at that time. It asked for information pertaining to 
the review to be sent to it. 
The investigator sent F information provided by Phoenix Life in relation to the review and 
calculation. F didnt think the information provided, indicated that the review had been 
carried out in accordance with the regulatory requirements. And it asked for the case to be 
passed to an ombudsman for review. 
The case was passed to me. After reviewing the file, I asked the investigator to ask Phoenix 
to provide any information it had which showed that reinstatement in the OPS schemes that 
were transferred had been explored. Phoenix provided information that it had in relation to 
that issue. 
I asked the investigator to send that information to F. The investigator sent this to F and 
asked it to provide any comments it wanted to make by 29 September 2022. They explained 
that if we didnt hear back from F by then, I would proceed to issue my decision based on the 
information I already had. No response was received from F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
F has referred to the regulatory and legal position at the time the advice was provided to 
Mrs B, and why Phoenix shouldnt have recommended that she transfer the deferred 
benefits from her two former employers OPS and take out a personal pension. I agree with F 
that Phoenixs adviser had legal and regulatory duties when advising Mrs B in 1993. 
But in Mrs Bs case, Phoenix has in essence accepted that the advice was unsuitable after it 
carried out the pension review, and concluded that she shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of her former employers OPS, or to transfer the benefits out of her then current employers scheme, and to opt out of that scheme and contract out of SERPS. So, I dont 
need to consider the suitability of the advice given to her at that time. 
Phoenixs redress calculation carried out as part of the pension review, established Mrs B 
had suffered a loss. It subsequently offered her compensation and paid that into her 
personal pension. The crux of the issue argued by F on behalf of Mrs B that I need to 
consider, is whether the review was carried out correctly and appropriate compensation paid 
to her.  
As F should be aware, the pension review was intended to be a one-off exercise. It was 
instigated as a result of concerns about widespread pension mis-selling.  Its aim where mis-
selling was identified, was to put customers as far as possible, back in the position they 
would have been in, if they hadnt received unsuitable advice. 
The regulator at the time the review was set up, set out a methodology for businesses to use 
to assess whether individuals had suffered a financial loss, and to calculate appropriate 
compensation. Several assumptions were used in the methodology, taking into account what 
the regulator at that time thought were fair, to be able to calculate appropriate compensation. 
These included assumptions about the expected investment returns to provide benefits at 
retirement. 
However, over time since the review was carried out, economic conditions such as falling 
annuity rates and reduced investment returns, have resulted in the assumptions that were 
used not being reached in a number of cases. And that has resulted in the compensation 
that was paid to many consumers, not providing the benefits that they were intended to do.
As Ive said above, the review was intended to be a one-off exercise. And although 
assumptions in relation investment growth and annuity rates havent been met in many 
cases, that isnt necessarily a reason for a review to be carried out afresh. 
The purpose of the pension review was to draw a line in respect of this issue of pension mis-
selling. It was intended to provide some finality for customers and businesses. Customers 
would know that their concerns had been investigated and where mis-selling had been 
identified, compensation would be paid. And businesses would know that having 
investigated and paid compensation, it wouldnt have any liability in the future to pay further 
compensation. 
In its response to the investigators view, F on behalf of Mrs B has said businesses could 
carry out a further review where a pension review hadnt been carried out in accordance with 
regulatory requirements.  That is correct and guidance issued by the FCA in 2017  
FG17/0 does provide for that. The guidance was originally aimed at complaints upheld 
about OPS transfers received after 3 August 2016 or for complaints received before this date 
that hadnt been settled in full and final settlement already. 
Although it was at first proposed that any case which fell within the pension review period 
would be omitted from the updated guidance, it was eventually decided that some cases 
could be included. And this was in relation to where reviews by businesses hadnt been 
carried out in accordance with regulatory standards at the time of the review - and/or where 
the particular circumstances of a case were not addressed by those standards. 
F doesnt think the information provided by Phoenix demonstrated that it had completed the 
review in line with regulatory requirements, but surprisingly it hasnt explained specifically 
why it thinks that.If I believed the redress calculation carried out by Phoenix hadnt been carried out correctly, 
then I could direct Phoenix to carry out a fresh calculation using the updated guidance. And 
that is provided for in the Pension Review bulletin five. This said that where an offer had 
been made and accepted in good faith, and it was subsequently identified that the 
calculation contained an error, a re-calculation should be carried out using the same 
effective date as the original calculation.
It seems to me that Phoenix has reviewed the compensation provided to Mrs B. It said that it 
didnt think the investment recommendations made to Mrs B when the advice to take out the 
personal pension was appropriate. And the assessment it carried out comparing the notional 
portfolio it believes should have been recommended to her with the value of her pension, 
identified that she hadnt suffered a financial loss. 
F hasnt commented on that, and as Ive said above it hasnt explained what aspects of the 
review and calculation it doesnt agree with. And Ive not seen any evidence in this case 
which indicates Phoenix didnt carry out the review and calculation itself in accordance with 
the guidelines set out by the regulator at the time the review was carried out. 
F has questioned whether Phoenix investigated if reinstatement into the DB schemes was 
possible. But, from the evidence Ive seen, which has been provided to F, Phoenix did make 
enquiries about whether Mrs B could be reinstated in the OPS schemes that were 
transferred into the personal pension. And the responses showed that it wasnt possible. The 
calculations also show that assumptions were used in respect of charges for the personal 
pension.
In the particular circumstances of Mrs Bs case, I havent seen anything that persuades me 
Phoenix should carry out a fresh calculation using the FG/17 guidance. From what Ive seen, 
Im satisfied that the transfers were reviewed, and compensation calculated in line with the 
regulators guidance and requirements at the time. So, I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman