DRN-4488508
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC irresponsibly allowed her to take out two loans which 
were unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs J says she took out two Lloyds loans in 2000 and 2007. She says both were 
unaffordable and used to consolidate other debts. Mrs J says she was in a difficult financial 
position at the time of the loans with other credit card debts. She says a significant 
proportion of her income was used to pay her debts each month and that Lloyds should have 
known that when it approved the loans.
Lloyds says due to the passage of time it has very limited information about the loans and 
the checks it carried out.
Mrs J brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaints. The 
investigator thought there was limited information about the first loan and nothing to suggest 
the lending decision was unfair or unaffordable. The investigator thought there was some 
limited information about the 2007 loan which suggested Mrs J had a regular income with a 
bank account that appeared well run. 
Mrs J accepts the investigators view in respect of the first loan but not the second one. She 
says although she repaid the loan on time it caused other debt. She also says Lloyds should 
have known about her other debt if it carried out appropriate checks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any lending or credit 
application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type or amount of any 
lending and those checks change over time due to different regulatory requirements.
I have no doubt Mrs J appreciates that Lloyds is not required to keep records going back 
some 16 years to April 2007 and that of course means that information is extremely limited in 
this case. For example, Mrs J is unable to provide her full income and expenditure details 
from that time and Lloyds is not able to provide details of the checks it did carry out at the 
time. Normally in these sorts of complaints a full credit file would be provided as well as 
affordability calculations. Without that information it is very difficult to form a balanced view of 
any affordability checks.
I have looked at the limited information provided by both sides and can see Mrs J says she 
used the loan to refinance and repay her credit card account. Lloyds records show that the 
credit card account had an interest rate of over 20% and Mrs J was repaying about £173 in 
interest each month. The 2007 loan had an interest rate of about 6% which I think was 
significantly less than the credit card rate. So, I think on one level the loan may have 
improved Mrs Js financial position when compared with the alternative and I can see the 
loan was repaid on time and in full, which suggests the lending may have been affordable.
Mrs J has provided some bank statements from 2007. I have looked carefully at them and 
can see she had a regular income and the account appeared well run. It was not overdrawn 
and did not appear to have for example returned payments.
Overall, Im satisfied that I have not seen any evidence that Lloyds didnt carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks on the 2007 loan application. And I have not seen 
evidence which persuades me on balance that there were obvious signs of financial 
difficulties that Lloyds ought reasonably to have been aware of at the time and considered. I 
have made clear that the loan may have been of some benefit when compared with the 
credit card interest rate and that it was repaid appropriately, which further suggests it wasnt 
unaffordable.
I appreciate Mrs J will be disappointed by my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman