DRN-2272487
The complaint
Mr A2 complains, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr A1, about a delay that National 
Savings and Investments caused in releasing the money it held for Mr A1.
What happened
Mr A2 brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr A1. He told us that Mr A1 sadly died 
in April 2020. He said NS&I took an unreasonable amount of time to release money it held 
for Mr A1. Mr A2 said NS&I rejected two certified wills, and refused to acknowledge a third 
will. He told us hed spent many, many hours on the phone (25 when he first complained to 
us, rising to over 30 hours) and had been unable to resolve this. 
Mr A2 said that NS&Is bereavement team isnt customer facing, and the only way to get any 
information from that team was to speak to a customer services manager. But managers 
were rarely available, and would simply refuse to take a phone call. So he couldnt get in 
touch with the relevant team. He said that hed tried to complain to the CEO, and that was 
ignored too. He wanted us to help him to sort this out. Mr A2 said the beneficiary desperately 
needed the money that NS&I was holding. 
NS&I has now released this money. It set out a timeline of what happened. 
On 4 May, NS&I received notification of the death of Mr A1. Mr A2 sent the form 
NS&I asks executors to complete, and an original death certificate. 
On 15 May NS&I received a letter and photocopy will from Mr A2s solicitors (dated 4 
May). This was certified on the front page, although the information was handwritten 
rather than stamped.
On 4 June, NS&I wrote to Mr A2 asking for a certified copy of the will. 
On 12 June, NS&I received a second copy of the will from Mr A2s solicitors (dated 9 
June). NS&I said this copy wasnt properly certified because the certification only 
appeared on the first page. NS&I rang Mr A2 and asked for it to be sent again. It also 
sent him a letter about this, dated 12 June. 
On 15 June, NS&I received another copy of the will, this was also certified on one 
page only, so wasnt acceptable. 
On 30 June, NS&I received a properly certified copy, with the certification on each 
page. NS&I called Mr A2 on 1 July to confirm receipt. 
On 8 July, NS&I wrote to Mr A2. Its letter says on a call dated 4 June Mr A2 was 
incorrectly told NS&I had sent him a valuation. NS&I offered £100 to say sorry for 
that. But it said that the length of time that it had taken Mr A2 to be able to talk to 
someone was an unfortunate result of the current pandemic, meaning a significant 
reduction in staff and much higher volume of calls being received. It was sorry this 
had impacted Mr A2.
On 14 July NS&I told Mr A2 it wanted to see a grant of probate. None of NS&Is 
earlier letters mention that. NS&I says it couldve told Mr A2 this right away, so it has 
apologised for this delay.
On 17 July NS&I waived the usual requirement for a grant of probate, and offered a 
further £50 to apologise. 
NS&I wouldnt do any more than this. Mr A2 has turned down its offer of £150, and hasnt 
cashed the warrants it has sent him. NS&I says he can still take up that offer if he would like, 
and it will issue new warrants.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint could be upheld. He said that our service can only 
tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by their customer, not 
by a third party. So we cant award compensation to executors who have brought a 
complaint on behalf of an estate. 
Our investigator said he understood Mr A2s strength of feeling about this, but he couldnt 
ask NS&I to do any more.
Mr A2 said that was unacceptable. He said that just because Mr A1 had passed away should 
not be a reason for a lack of justice. He said it was beyond him why we couldnt pay 
compensation to the estate, and he thought that our remit ought to be reconsidered. He said 
it was unacceptable that he should have to spend such a great length of time on the phone 
to release funds which are the property of the estate. Every other financial institution he had 
contact with was fine and released funds sooner than NS&I. He thought NS&I should be 
ashamed of itself. 
Mr A2 wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. Im sorry to 
have to tell Mr A2 that our service cannot provide the outcome he wants. Im afraid this is 
going to be a very disappointing decision for him. But I simply have no flexibility on this point.
Mr A2 and the other executor referred to in his correspondence with NS&I are authorised by 
law to act on behalf of the late Mr A1. So Mr A2 and the other executor can, together, 
complain about the delay in closing Mr A1s account. 
But the difficulty is that this complaint, brought on behalf of the estate, can only offer 
compensation to the complainant, for losses it has suffered. So if this complaint had a direct 
financial impact on the estate, I can award compensation for that. But I cannot award 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience incurred by Mr A2 in trying to release the 
funds from his late fathers estate. 
Ive thought about whether the way that NS&I handled this case meant that the estate 
incurred additional costs. I cant fairly say that it did. Ill explain why I think that.The requirement for a grant of probate was waived by NS&I, because it had delayed in 
telling Mr A2 about this. And, although Mr A2 says NS&I wouldnt accept the certified copies 
of the will it was sent, which caused additional costs, I dont think I can fairly ask NS&I to pay 
for that. I do think it wouldve been helpful if NS&I had been clearer about what was wrong 
with the documents it received. But I would still expect Mr A2s solicitors would certify each 
of the separate pages that make up this document. Otherwise, NS&I cant be sure its all 
genuine. So I dont think I can ask NS&I to pay the costs involved in providing fresh copies. 
So Ive thought about whether there are any direct costs to the estate that I can fairly and 
reasonably ask NS&I to pay in this case. I dont think there are. And Ive said I cant 
compensate Mr A2. Im also unable to compensate the beneficiaries of the estate for any 
distress caused by the delay in getting this money.
I understand that Mr A2 has found this deeply frustrating. And I know he wants me to get 
justice in this case. But I have no powers to do what he wants. The restriction on the 
payment of compensation is in the legislation which grants our service powers to make 
awards. I can only tell a business to pay compensation where that underlying law allows me 
to do so. Otherwise, the decision has no effect, and the business simply doesnt have to pay. 
Because the restriction on the payment of compensation isnt part of our services rules or 
policies, but is in legislation, no one at our service has the power to change this. Such a 
change would have to be made by Parliament.
I also know that Mr A2 wanted me to listen to the many hours of calls he had with NS&I, to 
see just how poor its service was at this time. But I dont think it would help in this case if I 
did so. I already agree with Mr A2 that he has received poor service from NS&I. Although I 
do think that the pandemic has meant hes had to wait longer for calls to connect, I dont 
think that the pandemic can be blamed entirely for the delay in releasing funds to him. 
If I was able to compensate Mr A2 for this, then I would listen to the calls he had with NS&I 
to decide the appropriate award for the service failures in this case. But, as Ive explained, I 
just have no power to make such an award. So Ive not done this. 
I realise just how very bitterly disappointed Mr A2 will be by this response, and Im sorry our 
service isnt able to help him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A1 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman