DRN-3737714
The complaint
Miss H complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund disputed payments made from her current 
account. 
What happened
Miss H says that between December 2020 and June 2021 fraudulent transactions totalling 
over £100,000 were made from her current account to a company Ill call A. Miss H says that 
A was owned by Mr S, who had been appointed by an insurance company to assist her with 
recovery after a serious car accident.
Miss H says that during this period she was seriously unwell and not therefore aware of what 
was happening. She says that Mr S made these payments without her consent. Miss H 
asked Revolut to refund these payments to her.
Revolut investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. It didnt agree that 
there was evidence that anyone had accessed Miss Hs account without authorisation. It 
thought Miss H had authorised the withdrawals or made them herself because:
the transactions were carried out using mobile devices that Miss H had registered 
using her email address or a photograph to verify her identity
Miss H was using her account regularly during the period in question and was 
communicating with Revolut about other matters
Miss H had previously received payments into her account from A and had made 
payments to Mr S that she had not disputed
Miss H added Mr S details to her business account
Miss H didnt agree with Revoluts decision. So she asked us to investigate.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they felt it 
was more likely that Miss H had authorised the transactions or allowed them to be made. 
Miss H asked for the answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the Investigator previously set out. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Miss H is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them 
herself or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
So, the key question here is whether Revolut has acted fairly in concluding that Miss H did 
authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that the mobile devices used to make these 
payments were verified by Miss H, and so it follows that she authorised them to be used for 
payments. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Revolut to hold her liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Miss H consented to the payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Revolut to conclude that Miss H 
authorised the transactions. This is because, in addition to the points Revolut has raised:
There is no clear point of compromise where Mr S could have accessed Miss Hs mobile 
device to make a payment. She has not said she shared any phone or banking login 
details with Mr S, and theres no evidence to suggest that any other mobile devices than 
those verified by Miss H were used to make these payments
Between the disputed payments there were also many payments and other transactions 
in and out of the account that Miss H has not disputed, so it appears she was regularly 
using this account during this time. Some of these payments were made within minutes 
of the payments that are in dispute. Its difficult to see how a third party could have taken 
Miss Hs phone and used it to make a payment without her noticing when she was also 
making payments at the same time.
Revoluts chat logs also show that Miss H was corresponding with it about other issues 
during this period. This all suggests that Miss H was able to actively monitor her account 
and so its not clear why she didnt flag any of these payments until December 2021.
I acknowledge that Miss H appears to have been through a very difficult time, but with 
everything Ive seen Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Revolut to refuse to refund these 
disputed payments to her on the basis that it is more likely she authorised them. It follows 
that I dont think Revolut needs to return any of those funds to Miss H.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman