DRN-1812585
The complaint
Mr M complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) refused to cover the cost of repairs he 
needed to make to his car, he believes they are related to a previous claim so should be 
covered.
What happened
Mr Ms car was hit whilst parked in 2017, he claimed under his insurance policy and UKI 
arranged for his car to be repaired.
Mr M was not satisfied that the repairs had ben completed correctly and reported this to UKI, 
it agreed and allowed Mr M to have rectification work carried out at a main dealership, which 
it paid for.
Mr M then contacted UKI a few months after with a further issue, it again agreed to cover the 
cost of this.
In September 2019, more than two years after the original repairs, Mr M contacted UKI to 
say that the front suspension spring on the car had failed. Mr M felt that as this was in the 
same area as the damage caused by the accident, it must be related and so should be 
covered under the original claim.
UKI had two internal engineers look into this, the engineers considered the details of the 
original claim and said that they felt this was caused by wear and tear. UKI has said it 
considered if this damage was linked to the original claim then it wouldve expected that this 
wouldve been picked up when the car had its annual MOT.
Mr M was unhappy with this and so brought his complaint to our service. The investigator 
didnt think that UKI had done anything wrong here so didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M 
disagreed with the investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence. This decision only addresses those 
issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I have to tell Mr M that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome here and for 
broadly the same reasons, Ill explain.
Following Mr Ms car being repaired in 2017, an MOT was carried out on it. The records from 
the MOT showed that the car had driven 144,393 miles at that time, it also showed there 
was only one advisory notification and that was the rear wheels were starting to crack. There 
was no mention of anything being wrong with the suspension or anything to do with the front 
of the car where the accident damage had occurred.
The car had a further MOT in 2018, this time the mileage was recorded as 158,054. The cart 
passed the MOT and there were no advisory notices.
Mr Ms car failed its 2019 MOT as the rear wheel had fractured. The mileage recorded at this 
test was 170,133. There were other advisories on this MOT regarding the front tyres and 
front brake hoses.
The suspension spring failed after this MOT was carried out. 
From the accident until the suspension ring failing there was a time gap of over two years 
and Mr Ms car had been driven approximately another 26,000 miles. Based on this Im 
inclined to agree with UKI that the failing of the suspension springs is more likely to be 
caused by wear and tear than it is to be related to the accident. It follows I think UKI fairly 
declined to cover the repair for this under Mr Ms original claim.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with UKI - can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman