DRN-2667166
The complaint
Mr P and Miss R complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr P and Miss R arranged a mortgage with Halifax in 2004. At a later time, in 2008, they 
bought a regular premium MPPI policy. This was arranged in a meeting in a branch. 
Mr P and Miss R say in the meeting they were told to take the policy out if they wanted the 
mortgage, due to Mr Ps age. They say they were mis-sold the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr P and Miss Rs complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr P and Miss Rs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mr P and Miss Rs complaint because of the following reasons:
Mr P and Miss R say they were told to take the policy if they wanted the mortgage. 
I acknowledge everything Mr P and Miss R have said. I cant be sure exactly what 
was discussed between Mr P and Miss R and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im 
also mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections 
of what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive 
seen. 
It is not clear whether Mr P and Miss R were discussing taking additional finance with 
their mortgage, when they met with an advisor in 2008. But what is clear is that they 
did take an MPPI policy at that time and without anything else to support what Mr P 
and Miss R has told me and based on what I know of sales conducted by Halifax 
during that time, I cant safely conclude that Halifax didnt make them aware that the 
policy was optional. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr P and Miss R during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mr P and Miss R, it had 
to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for their needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr P and Miss R based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. Mr P and Miss R say they would have been able to use 3 months full sick pay 
each but the MPPI policy would have paid in addition to any provisions they would 
have had and for longer. So, the benefit would have been of use to Mr P and Miss R 
during a difficult time as they could have used their provisions to pay for other 
expenses. I think, on balance, Mr P and Miss R had a need for this cover based on 
their circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term 
that would make the policy unsuitable for them either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mr P and Miss R took out but even though it has provided information detailing 
the cover and how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to 
Mr P and Miss R in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they 
were disclosed clearly, I dont think Mr P and Miss R would have done anything 
different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already 
given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr P and Miss R wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mr P and 
Miss Rs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr P and Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman