DRN-3594439
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint has been brought by a claims management company (the 
representative).
The representative says that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires 
incorrectly processed a mortgage application in 2004. They say that although the original 
non-advised application was submitted by Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage broker before mortgage 
regulation started on 31 October 2004 (M-day), the records show an amended application 
was submitted after that date. They say under the regulatory regime that came in on M-day, 
Birmingham Midshires should have reverted to the broker at that point, as the broker would 
have then needed to give regulated mortgage advice. 
The representative says the fact this wasnt returned to the broker for regulated mortgage 
advice has meant Mr and Mrs W havent been able to make a claim through the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) against the mortgage broker due to the FSCSs 
eligibility criteria. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ws application was received by Birmingham Midshires on 27 October 2004. 
The application was for a remortgage of their existing property, with some extra borrowing 
for Mr and Mrs W to invest in property. I wont detail anything more about the use of the 
funds as that isnt relevant to this individual complaint, but I can confirm that I have read 
everything that has been provided. 
On 1 November 2004 a second application number was created and cancelled on 
Birmingham Midshires system.
Birmingham Midshires sent an acknowledgement letter on 2 November 2004 referencing the 
original application number, and a mortgage offer was issued on 12 November 2004 again 
under the original application number. 
The Birmingham Midshires contact notes indicate it received a call from the solicitor it had 
sent the mortgage offer to, saying the offer had been sent to the wrong branch. The 
solicitors information was amended to the correct branch, and a further mortgage offer was 
issued on 22 November 2004, with everything else remaining unchanged.
The mortgage completed a few days later and ran until it was redeemed in December 2006 
when Mr and Mrs W remortgaged to another lender.
In October 2017 the representative made a claim to the FSCS on behalf of Mr and Mrs W 
about the advice given by the mortgage broker.
In September 2019 the FSCS rejected the claim. It said Birmingham Midshires hadnt 
responded to its request for further information, and the information provided by the 
representative didnt indicate that advice was given by the broker after 31 October 2004. It 
said that meant the claim didnt fall within its jurisdiction, but that if Mr and Mrs W could 
provide anything to confirm they received mortgage advice after 31 October 2004 then it 
would look at things again.
In December 2019 the representative wrote to Birmingham Midshires. They said they hadnt 
received the information and documentation they had asked for under a data subject access 
request (DSAR), which was needed to support Mr and Mrs Ws claim to the FSCS that the 
mortgage broker had mis-sold the mortgage in 2004. They said it was unclear what 
happened as it seemed an amended mortgage application was received by Birmingham 
Midshires on 2 November 2004, which then completed a few weeks later and that should 
have been subject to regulated mortgage advice. The representative raised this as a formal 
complaint saying Birmingham Midshires record keeping had caused Mr and Mrs W losses 
as it was hindering their FSCS claim. To put things right the representative said Birmingham 
Midshires should cover what they had calculated to be a £145,000 loss, plus statutory 
interest on that sum.
Birmingham Midshires responded to the complaint in February 2020. It apologised for the 
fact the DSAR didnt contain all the information that had been requested and made a 
payment of £150 to Mr and Mrs W in compensation for that error. It confirmed the missing 
information had already now been sent to Mr and Mrs W. It didnt uphold the rest of the 
complaint, saying the application was received on 27 October 2004 and the only amendment 
made after M-day was to change the solicitors branch address. It said it wasnt responsible 
for Mr and Mrs Ws claimed losses.
The representative referred the complaint to us in July 2020, saying they were unhappy with 
Birmingham Midshires response to the complaint for the following reasons. They said:
Birmingham Midshires had ignored the fact its own documentation showed an amended 
application was received.
The amended application should have created a new offer, which would have come 
under the post-M-day regulatory regime.
Birmingham Midshires had failed in its duty of care to keep adequate records.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was just one mortgage 
application  which was made before M-day - and the only change made was to amend the 
solicitors details. She also looked at the delay in providing all the information under the 
DSAR, and said she felt £150 compensation was fair for that.
The representative didnt agree and asked that the case be passed to an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was an application made after M-day?
Before M-day mortgages werent regulated, and the FSCS can only deal with claims made 
about mortgage advice given by brokers after M-day. Thats why the date the application 
was submitted  and whether an amended application was submitted - is key.
Its not in dispute that the original mortgage application was submitted before M-day. The 
dispute is about whether an amended application was submitted after that date, other than for administrative purposes. If the application was amended for anything other than 
administrative purposes, then the mortgage broker would have needed to have treated this 
as a new application and acted in accordance with the new regulatory rules and 
requirements, such as the standards relating to advised and non-advised applications.
I acknowledge the representatives strength of feeling that an amended mortgage application 
was submitted after M-day, but I dont agree. Ill explain why.
The original application was submitted on 27 October 2004. That can be seen by the screen 
shots of Birmingham Midshires application system. That also shows the reference number 
that was allocated to that application.
Whilst a second reference number is mentioned in Birmingham Midshires contact notes, the 
notes show it was cancelled on 1 November 2004. The representative has said that it is 
clear that new application details (from that second application) were added to the original 
application and the second application cancelled, and it was only the submission of a second 
application (after M-day) that led to this mortgage proceeding. They say the application 
should have been returned to the mortgage broker at that time so the broker could speak to 
Mr and Mrs W and give regulated mortgage advice, as would then be required.
I understand why the representative would like to think that is clear but having looked at 
everything I think there are other alternative explanations for the second reference number 
that are just as  if not more - likely. To my mind the most likely explanation is that the 
second reference number was simply set up in error, and it was then immediately cancelled 
when that was noticed.
Ive not seen anything to indicate that the application that was submitted before M-day 
wasnt the same application that went to offer and then completed. Theres nothing to 
substantiate that a second application was made, which was more than administratively 
different to the original application, such that it should have triggered a return of the 
application to the mortgage broker so the broker could then revisit it based on the new 
regulatory rules around arranging and advising on regulated mortgage contracts.
The mortgage offer was reissued, but that was for administrative purposes to change the 
address for Mr and Mrs Ws appointed solicitor  everything else remained unchanged  so 
that wouldnt have triggered this to be returned to the broker.
Theres no evidence to support an amended application being submitted by the mortgage 
broker after M-day, and the second application number isnt  in itself  evidence of that 
happening as there are other reasonable explanations for that.
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs W found themselves in with 
respect to the investments they made, Im satisfied this mortgage was correctly processed 
by Birmingham Midshires as one where the application was submitted before M-day.DSAR
Whilst the representative hasnt specifically mentioned the DSAR issue to us in its appeals, 
Ill cover it here for completeness.
Birmingham Midshires accepted that it didnt initially send all the information that had been 
requested. As it has already accepted it was at fault here, I dont need to make a finding on 
that. I simply need to decide what  if anything  needs to be done to put that right.
I understand the missing information was sent in January 2020, and Birmingham Midshires 
paid £150 compensation to Mr and Mrs W in February 2020.
Ive considered this offer very carefully and having done so Im satisfied I wouldnt have 
ordered Birmingham Midshires to do any more. Whilst Birmingham Midshires should have 
sent the information much sooner, even if that information had been provided it wouldnt 
have made a difference to the overall outcome of the FSCS claim as the information held by 
Birmingham Midshires doesnt indicate the mortgage broker gave Mr and Mrs W advice after 
M-day, so it wouldnt have helped move things forward.
This means all Im looking at is a payment for the inconvenience Mr and Mrs W were put to. 
The award of compensation is fairly subjective, and whilst we have some approximate 
bandings we publish on our website, these are fairly broad. Having considered everything 
that has been said in this case, and awards weve made in other cases, Im satisfied the 
£150 already paid is more than fair so I dont order Birmingham Midshires to do  or pay - 
anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman