DRN-3403005
The complaint
Mrs J complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds) service when 
assessing her claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs J called Lloyds and reported that she had heard a loud crash from the roof and saw 
cement and tiles dislodged. The advisor told Mrs J that she would check the weather reports 
to see if the weather conditions amounted to a storm. Once checked, the advisor informed 
Mrs J that the wind wasnt strong enough for storm conditions to be met. But as there were 
some significant winds, she would send out a surveyor to establish the cause of damage. 
During the call, the advisor explained to Mrs J what was covered under her policy and what 
wasnt covered, such as wear and tear. Mrs J mentioned that she wasnt able to check in the 
loft for any damage and the advisor told her that she would get the surveyor to check the loft 
for any damage. 
The surveyor attended and wrote his report. He concluded that there was no storm related 
damage to the roof. But there was deterioration of the mortar that had de-bonded over time. 
So, Mrs Js claim was declined due to wear and tear. Mrs J was unhappy and complained to 
Lloyds. 
In its final response, Lloyds maintained that Mrs Js claim was correctly declined as her 
policy didnt cover for wear and tear, as this would be considered a maintenance issue. It did 
offer and pay £25 for failing to call Mrs J, following the receipt of the surveyors report, as it 
said it would. Mrs J was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that there was no evidence to show that the surveyor had inspected the loft as he was 
required to do. He accepted that there had been wear and tear to the roof and that Lloyds 
had fairly declined this part of the claim. But as the surveyor hadnt noted in their report that 
they had inspected the loft, he recommended that Lloyds pay compensation of £100, for the 
trouble and upset this caused. 
Mrs J accepted the view, Lloyds did not. It said that the surveyor had inspected the loft and it 
relied on a voice note to support this. But as it hadnt said whether it accepted or rejected our 
investigators view, the complaint was referred for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. And I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether the surveyor carried out a thorough enough 
inspection, that included the loft. It should be noted that Mrs J accepted that the damage to 
the main roof was due to wear and tear, which isnt covered by the terms of her policy. 
Nevertheless, in the phone call when Mrs J first contacted Lloyds, she mentioned that that 
she couldnt go up into the loft. The advisor assured her that the surveyor would go up in the 
loft to carry out the inspection. 
Mrs J said that whilst the surveyor was there, he did not go into the loft. Lloyds provided me 
with a voice note that the surveyor had recorded. In the voice note, he said that he had gone 
up into the loft. 
Where there is conflicting evidence, we look at what is most likely to have happened. I note 
that there is no date or time when the voice note was made. But despite this the report which 
gives details of what the surveyor did and saw while at the property, doesnt mention that an 
inspection was carried out in the loft. The surveyor mentions only inspecting the main roof. 
The surveyor attached photos in the report. And those photos were just of the roof and 
nothing of the loft. 
The report concludes that there was wear and tear to the roof and says that there was no 
internal damage. But there is no mention as to what rooms were inspected to conclude that 
there was no internal damage. Further, there is no mention in the report, of the loft having 
been inspected. And I think, that had the loft been inspected, it would be more likely than 
not, that the surveyor wouldve mentioned this. 
In the circumstances, as Mrs J was given the expectation that her loft would be inspected, 
and this wasnt done. Im not satisfied that Lloyds didnt carry out a thorough enough 
inspection of the loft. Consequently, I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to recognise 
this error. And I recommend it pay Mrs J a further £100 compensation, for the trouble and 
upset this caused.  
Putting things right
I think its fair that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited put matters right, as I direct 
below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
To put matters right, Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs J £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs J how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs J a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman