DRN-3669448
The complaint
Mrs H says HSBC UK Bank Plc has treated her unfairly in relation to transactions on her 
debit card which paid for flights abroad.
What happened
In December 2019 Mrs H used her HSBC debit card to pay for flights with a total cost of just 
over £2252. She was due to travel in July 2020, but the flights were cancelled. She 
corresponded with the flight organiser, who Ill call Firm T, and Firm T said theyd refund 
her. She completed the documentation it asked her to. Time went by and eventually Mrs H 
became concerned she wasnt going to get her refund. Firm T then said she might want to 
contact her bank. So she did.
HSBC looked into the matter and didnt think it could help. It however did accept the 
customer service it provided her wasnt good enough. So it paid Mrs H £200 for how it 
handled matters. Mrs H, still unsatisfied, brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt HSBC didnt have to do anymore. Our Investigator pointed to the 
chargeback rules which give time limits for raising disputes. And noted that Mrs H took her 
complaint to HSBC outside those time limits. So they concluded HSBC didnt have to do any 
more. Mrs H remains unhappy and so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs HSBC debit card is part of a card network. And this network has rules which 
includes giving HSBC an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Suppliers, namely 
through the Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for consumers, nor 
does it provide any guarantee of success. But this service does consider raising a 
chargeback to be good practice if the debit card supplier considers the dispute has a 
reasonable prospect of success.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is about HSBC and whether it did what it 
should have and whether it treated Mrs H fairly in relation to its obligations. This decision 
isnt about Firm T which isnt a party to this decision nor within this Services remit. I hope 
this distinction is clear.
could HSBC challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs H 
does here, HSBC can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mrs H doesnt dispute 
that she used her HSBC debit card here. Nor does she dispute the amount, date, or any 
other details about the transactions. So I dont think HSBC couldve challenged the payment 
on the basis Mrs H didnt properly authorise the transactions, given what Ive just set out.
HSBC is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. 
The network rules are very detailed and comprehensive and include time limits with regard 
to the period in which chargebacks can be raised. Ive considered these time limits and note 
the dates of what happened in Mrs Hs case. Having considered these facts I can see Mrs H 
raised her dispute with HSBC out of time in relation to what happened here. Shes out of 
time with regard to the transaction date, the expected last day of service (the last flight) and 
all the other possible chargeback reasons available in this case. So although HSBCs 
handling of Mrs Hs dispute was poor, and it has rightly compensated her for this, its 
handling doesnt make a difference to the outcome. Thats because when Mrs H raised the 
dispute with HSBC it was already too late to raise a chargeback. So HSBCs handling of her 
dispute didnt impact the end result. Unfortunately she was already out of time the moment 
she contacted HSBC.
Ive considered the service HSBC provided. And as it has acknowledged, this was poor. But 
I also have to bear in mind the context of the challenges it faced when Mrs H raised the 
dispute with it during the Pandemic. I also note that when HSBC compensated her its 
position was to offer £200 straightaway. Having considered what happened here in the 
round Im satisfied this was fair considering the circumstances. So I dont think it has to do 
any more.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mrs H wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mrs Hs avenues for recouping these funds spent here will be significantly 
limited. But this does not mean that HSBC has to do anymore in relation to this dispute 
between Mrs H and Firm T.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. It 
has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman