DRN-3439595
The complaint
Mrs W, through her representative, complains that Short Term Finance Limited (STFL) lent 
to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from STFL records and Mrs Ws credit file report she has sent to us, here 
is a table of the loans approved for Mrs W. Loan 1 has been determined as outside of our 
jurisdiction but remains relevant when considering the lending relationship. 
Loan Date Taken Principal Term and Weekly 
RepaymentsDate Settled
1 06/06/2014 Out of Jurisdiction 19/09/2014
2 26/09/2014 £400 16 x £40 19/12/2014
3 19/12/2014 £500 16 x £50 03/04/2015
4 08/05/2015 £625 21 x £50 04/09/2015
5 04/09/2015 £625 21 x £50 25/12/2015
6 25/12/2015 £625 21 x £50 15/04/2016
7 15/04/2016 £625 21 x £50 05/08/2016
8 05/08/2016 £750 21 x £60 16/12/2016
9 16/12/2016 £750 21 x £60 05/05/2017
One of our adjudicators though that STFL should not have lent to Mrs W for loans 2 to 5 
because of the level of debt she was already in before the STFL loans were approved for 
her. And by the time that Mrs W had taken many loans over the years, our adjudicator 
thought that the pattern of lending was such that STFL ought to have ceased at loan 6. So, 
our adjudicator upheld the complaint about loans 2 to 9. 
STFL responded to disagree and said that it did not think that there was enough evidence to 
lead to the complaint for loans 2 to 6 being upheld.
In relation to loans 7, 8 and 9, STFL agreed with our adjudicator and invited us to pass that 
on to Mrs W. 
Mrs W has not responded to the adjudicators view and we understand that her 
representative is having difficulty getting in touch with her about STFLs partial agreement.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
STFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that STFL should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. And our adjudicator thought that this 
applied from loan 6 in Mrs Ws case.
STFL was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
Ive reviewed the information STFL has sent to us. And I note that for the lending period with 
Mrs W, its policy was that it used to carry out a credit search. The policy has been sent to us 
and it states 
A credit status report was also obtained from [Credit Reference Agency] to check for 
CCJs and any other indebtedness to check if the applicant is suffering any financial 
hardship and to validate the expenditure data they have provided. 
Use of the initials CCJ is a reference to County Court Judgment. 
STFL has also said that STF affordability assessments were based on the information given on each loan 
application by [Mrs W] and evidenced by our agent by sight of benefit 
letters/confirmation, bank statements and utility bills and the level of credit offered 
based on this, her previous payment history and data from her credit reports.
And yet following the adjudicators view, STFL has said 
Prior to late 2019 our policy was to credit check the first application only, after late 
2019 we changed our policy to credit search each application. 
As loans 2 to 6 were completed under this policy we believe we did nothing wrong 
when issuing loans 2  6
STFL continues to forward to us an example credit report which is of no use at all. So we 
have no information from STFL about any searches it did or any copies of the results it may 
have had in relation to Ms W. And no copies of the documents it has said its agent would 
have viewed at the time he or she was in Mrs Ws home doing the applications with her. 
Added to which I have three different explanations as to what it did before one or all the 
loans Mrs W applied for. 
So, I do not consider it unreasonable for us to use the details Mrs W has sent to us using her 
personal credit report. In the absence of information STFL has said it obtained but is not able 
or has failed to send us copies, then its fair and reasonable of us to use the information 
Mrs W can provide to give us an idea of what it likely was that STFLs credit searches would 
have discovered at the time. That credit report supplied by Mrs W was dated 27 July 2020. 
So, it likely covered Mrs Ws credit position for the period July 2014 to July 2020. 
At the time, Mrs W had three very young children and a fourth was born just before Mrs W 
applied for loan 2. Her income was low and mainly made up of benefits. 
Our adjudicator analysed Mrs Ws credit situation well and I summarise it here having cross 
referenced it with the credit report Mrs W has sent to us. 
When Mrs W applied for loan 2, it seems that she had five active loans with three other 
lenders, two of those being home credit providers. Her outstanding loans at that time totalled 
£7,732, and this did not include the loan that STFL granted. Yet on Mrs Ws loan application 
for loan 2, she disclosed no other loan repayments. The £40 she did insert related to Loan 1 
with STFL.
I think it is fair to say that a credit check at that time would have verified that the expenditure 
data given in Mrs Ws loan application was not an accurate representation of her financial 
situation. In these circumstances, I think its unlikely Mrs W wouldve been able to 
sustainably meet her weekly repayments for this loan  and any subsequent loans.
Looking at Mrs Ws credit file, I have seen with each loan that STFL granted, the balance of 
the outstanding loans she held elsewhere were also increasing. When loan 3 was granted, 
Mrs Ws outstanding loans had increased to £8,162, by loan 4, £12,742, and by loan 5 this 
had increased to £13,414. 
So, whilst Mrs W borrowed from STFL her debts increased, and there was no improvement 
to her financial situation. I think STFL would have been aware Mrs W was experiencing 
difficulties by the amount of loans she held and that she was borrowing continually. I dont 
think STFL acted responsibly by granting further loans to her, increasing her debts and monthly commitments further.
For the same reasons I uphold Mrs Ws complaint about loans 2 to 5.
I think by loan 6, STFL shouldve reasonably questioned whether continuing to offer further 
loans to Mrs W was sustainable or otherwise harmful. I note that when she applied in 
December 2015 (for loan 6) for another loan she already had a balance on the previous loan 
to refinance which was £250. 
By loan 6, Mrs W had been borrowing from Short Term Finance for 18 months, with just
a one-month gap in this period. A repeat pattern of lending had emerged, and Mrs W
was taking out a new loan on the same day her existing loan had been repaid. The amounts
Mrs W was borrowing from STFL didnt significantly decrease either.
I think that Mrs W lost out because STFL continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mrs Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about loan 6 onwards, loans 7 to 9 of which STFL has 
already agreed to put right. But I include all the loans 2 to 9 in the redress section for 
completeness.
Additional point raised by STFL 
In the letter sending to us its file of papers for us to begin our investigation, STFL has raised 
an argument that I have seen before and I have addressed before in earlier decisions 
relating to STFL. For completeness I address it again here briefly. 
STFL has referred to a report relating to an FCA skilled person report and it states that the 
outcome was good. It cites this report to demonstrate that our processes are fit and proper 
for use in the short term lending sector. We are confident, as is the skilled person and the 
regulator, that not only do we have robust methods of determining credit worthiness, but also 
that no customer is at harm from borrowing from STF.
But possession of a favourable report based on a sample of cases may have satisfied the 
regulator but it does not preclude individuals from bringing their complaints to STFL and after 
that to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Added to which, STFL has said that this report was in October 2021 which post-dates the 
lending to Mrs W by several years. In which case I think its irrelevant to Mrs Ws complaint. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STFL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent loans 2 to 5 and had it stopped lending to Mrs W from loan 6 
as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all 
hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs W in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that [consumer] would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFLs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
STFL ought to do as follows: 
refund all interest and charges Mrs W paid on loans 2 to 9;
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2 to 5 from Mrs Ws credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 6 to 9 should be removed from 
Mrs Ws credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires STFL to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint in part and I direct that Short Term 
Finance Limited does as I have set out in the putting things right part of the decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman