DRN-3199580
The complaint
Mrs F complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
on her after the event insurance (ATE) policy. 
What happened
Mrs F was hit in the rear, so she called to report the accident to her insurer. As Mrs F was 
deemed to not be at fault for the accident, she was given the option of claiming on her car 
insurance policy or to use the services of an accident management company (AMC) through 
an ATE insurance policy. 
The ATE insurance policy covered the repairs to her car, like for like hire car and the 
recovery of her car. Mrs F chose to use the AMC with the after the event insurance policy. 
She also claimed for two childrens car seats which were in her car at the time. The ATE 
policy didnt cover car seats, so the AA claimed them as part of uninsured losses from the 
third partys insurer. Because of this Mrs F didnt receive the money for the car seats until it 
had been recovered from the third party insurer. 
As the claim for the car seats was taking too long Mrs F complained to the AA. The AA 
reviewed her complaint and agreed it hadnt explained things as clearly as it should. 
Because of this the AA agreed there had been poor claim handling and paid her £125 
compensation. 
Mrs F didnt think this was good enough and referred her complaint here. She said she 
hadnt been able to transport her children around safely and had to use buses and taxis until 
shed received the money for the car seats. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that 
Mrs F had claimed under her ATE policy, and as that didnt cover her car seats, he didnt 
think the AA needed to do anything else to compensate her for the delay.
As Mrs F didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs F reported the accident, she was given the option of claiming under an ATE policy 
rather than her car insurance policy. The terms and conditions of the policy say it covers the 
recovery of Mrs Fs car, repairs to the car, storage costs and a hire vehicle similar to Mrs Fs 
car. Ive also looked at the definitions within the policy and Im satisfied the childrens car 
seats arent covered by it. As the cost of the childrens car seats isnt covered under the ATE 
policy, Im unable to say the AA is responsible for them under the policy. 
Ive also listened to the initial call Mrs F had when she was given the option of using the ATE 
policy and during the call the advisor tells her they can recover the cost of the childrens car 
seats from the third party insurer and once thats received it would be paid to Mrs F. 
I can understand Mrs Fs frustration at the length of time the third party took to pay for the 
car seats. However as this isnt something which is covered under the policy and the AA said 
it would only be able to pay her the cost for them once the third party had paid them, Im not 
persuaded the AA has done anything wrong by recovering the uninsured losses for her. 
I can see though that the AA has agreed it didnt give clear enough information about the 
process and there have been communication errors which have caused a delay. The AA has 
paid £125 compensation for this and Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say that because the poor communication has resulted in Mrs F not 
knowing what was happening and meant shes needed to clarify things at a later date when 
she shouldnt have needed too and delayed in progressing her claim. As Im satisfied Mrs F 
wouldnt have done anything different due to the poor communication, Im satisfied £125 is 
enough to compensate for this Im not going to tell the AA to pay anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that £125 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited needs to pay Mrs F this amount if 
not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman