DRN-3271859
The complaint
Mr P complains about his insurer, esure Insurance Limited (esure). His complaint relates to a 
claim under his motor insurance policy for items from his vehicle after an accident.
 
esure uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Reference to esure in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr P had an accident in which his vehicle was damaged. The vehicle was 
recovered to a garage (A) for the damage to be assessed. Due to the extent of the damage 
and estimated cost of repair, A concluded it was a total loss. Mr P tried to arrange retrieval of 
personal belongings (which he said were a camera and a DVD system) from the vehicle, but 
this didnt happen. As a total loss, the vehicle was then taken from A to a salvage firm (C). 
esure asked Mr P to collect his belongings in January 2020, but on contacting esure Mr P 
was told that C hadnt found any belongings in the vehicle. For a time, it seemed that Mr P 
wanted to keep the vehicle, but he didnt proceed with paying the salvage fee, so the vehicle 
was then disposed of in April 2020.
Mr P was unhappy at not being able to retrieve his belongings and complained to esure. In 
their final response esure upheld the complaint in part. They said Mr P had been in contact 
to collect his belongings but hadnt done so. esure also noted what C had said about there 
being no personal effects in the vehicle and there wasnt any evidence that the camera was 
in the car when taken to them. esure also didnt consider the DVD system to be personal 
belongings, as it was integrated into the headrests of the car. esure concluded that Mr P had 
the opportunity to retrieve any personal belongings before his vehicle was disposed of and 
that they had acted fairly in paying him £150 (the claim limit for personal effects under the 
policy). But esure accepted they should have acted on Mr Ps complaint sooner and paid him 
an additional £75 by way of an apology. 
Unhappy at the outcome of his complaint, Mr P complained to this service. He said that 
being unable to retrieve his belongings before the vehicle was disposed of meant hed 
suffered financial loss, particularly his camera as he needed it for his work. He asked for 
compensation for his loss as his belongings went missing while his vehicle was with A, and 
then C, who were acting for esure, when they should have been returned to him.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She concluded that the belongings had gone missing 
while the vehicle was in esures care, so it wasnt fair to apply the £150 limit for personal 
possessions in the policy and the loss should be settled outside of the policy. She thought 
that photographs indicated the presence of some of the items when the vehicle was with A, 
but werent subsequently when with C, contradicting what C had said about no personal 
belongings being present. She thought that esure should cover the total costs of the missing 
items (£1,609, from receipts provided by Mr P) and pay £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience suffered by Mr P. 
esure disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They didnt think there was any evidence that the items were in the vehicle, 
therefore they hadnt gone missing whilst with them. esure acknowledged that the radio unit 
was in the car when with A  but not when it was with C  but their assumption was that Mr 
P removed it. They also said that the value of the radio unit would have been included within 
the total loss value of the car, so Mr P wouldnt have suffered financial loss (and that there 
would be no separate cover for entertainment equipment over and above the total loss value 
of the vehicle).
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators view. In respect of Mr Ps camera I 
concluded that I wasnt persuaded that the camera was lost from the vehicle subsequent to 
its recovery to A and C. I also concluded that esures payment of £150 (the limit for personal 
possessions) was fair and reasonable. Regarding the other items, I concluded that it would 
be fair for esure to reimburse Mr P for the cost of the DVD system (£435.98) under the car 
audio conditions of the policy. I also didnt agree with esures argument that the total loss 
value of the vehicle would have included the DVD system as if it had been present. But I 
didnt think esure should reimburse Mr P for the other items, as I hadnt seen anything to 
show that either item would have increased the vehicles market value. 
 
Because I disagreed with the investigators view I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether esure have acted fairly towards Mr P.
In his complaint to this service, Mr P specifically referred to his belongings as a camera and 
a DVD system. The camera is clearly a portable item, so I agree that its a personal 
possession. However, the DVD system was professionally fitted to the car (along with a 
dashcam and a reversing camera) as set out in the receipt for the items provided by Mr P. 
Ive also considered esures view that the DVD system wasnt a personal belonging as it was 
integrated into the headrests. The photographs of the vehicle indicate thats the case. Ive 
concluded that the DVD system (and the other items) werent personal possessions as they 
were fitted to the vehicle. So, Ive considered those items separately to the camera.
Taking the camera first, Mr P said that it was in the vehicle when he had his accident and 
that he wasnt able to retrieve it subsequently, so has suffered financial loss. esures view is 
that theres no evidence that the camera was in the vehicle and in any event, they paid Mr P 
up to the limit for personal possessions under the terms of his policy (£150). Ive considered 
these points carefully but, on balance, Im not persuaded that the camera was lost from the 
vehicle subsequent to its recovery to A and then C. I recognise this isnt consistent with what 
Mr P has told us, so Ill set out why Ive come to that conclusion.
As a valuable item, I think its unlikely Mr P would have left it in the vehicle when it was 
recovered. Particularly if  as Mr P told us  he needed it for his work. Even had he left it in 
the vehicle when it was taken to A, given what hes told us about its importance (as well as 
its value) I think its likely that he would have sought to retrieve it at the earliest opportunity, 
or to ensure that A was aware of it and secured it for him. But this didnt happen, despite him 
initially arranging to visit A for that purpose. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that theres 
evidence that the camera was lost from the vehicle whilst with A and then C.
 
Ive also considered esures view that, under the terms of the policy, there was a £150 limit 
for personal possessions. So, had the camera been lost either through theft from the vehicle 
or in an accident, esure would only have had to pay a maximum of £150. Together with my conclusion that Im not persuaded that the camera was lost from the vehicle, then I think 
esures payment of £150 (the limit for personal possessions) is fair and reasonable.
Turning to the DVD system, esures view is that paying Mr P the total loss value of the 
vehicle means theres no separate cover for entertainment equipment. Ive thought about 
this, but I dont agree. Ive noted that the policy booklet contains the following condition, 
under the heading Car audio, navigation and entertainment system:
Well pay an unlimited amount, if you lose or damage any of the following equipment 
and it is part of the cars original specification, fitted from new by the manufacturer:
oDVD player
If theyre not part of the cars original specification but are permanently fitted to your 
car, well pay up to the limit in your schedule.
Ive looked at the report from A. It doesnt list the DVD system amongst the extras fitted to 
the car, which suggests that it wasnt part of the cars original specification but fitted 
subsequently. This is confirmed by the receipt provided by Mr P, which includes DVD Player 
Headrests (at a cost of £435.98). From photographs of the vehicle at C the headrests are 
clearly visible (but the entertainment system has been removed from the dashboard). Ive 
therefore concluded that the second element of the above terms and condition applies. The 
policy schedule lists the limit for car audio equipment (which I think would reasonably be 
interpreted to include the DVD system) as £1,000.
 
Ive also considered esures points that Mr P had the opportunity to retrieve the headrests 
before the vehicle was disposed of, together with their point that they assume Mr P removed 
the radio (entertainment) unit. But theyve provided no evidence to support the latter 
assumption, so Im not persuaded by it. Nor do I find it plausible that - even assuming he 
removed the unit - he would leave the DVD headrests.
 
esure also say that, when acknowledging the removal of the radio (entertainment) unit, the 
total loss value of the vehicle would have included it as if it was present. But Ive noted that 
As report doesnt include the DVD system in the list of equipment on the vehicle, so any 
valuation wouldnt have reflected the value of any additional equipment fitted (including the 
DVD system). So Im not persuaded by esures argument.
Based on these considerations, I think its fair that esure should reimburse Mr P for the cost 
of the DVD system (£435.98).
While Mr Ps complaint to this service mentioned the DVD system (and the camera), it didnt 
mention the dashcam and the reversing camera (at a combined cost of £273.48). Together 
with the DVD system, both were included as part of the sum that our investigator thought 
esure should reimburse Mr P. While neither item is clearly present from the photographs Ive 
seen, given that they were included in the same receipt provided by Mr P, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that both were fitted on the vehicle and present at the time of the 
accident. Again, neither item was included in the list of equipment compiled by A, so 
wouldnt have been reflected in the total loss value of the vehicle. 
However, while they wouldnt have been included as items within the vehicles original 
specification, Ive not seen anything to show that either item would have increased the 
vehicles market value. So, I dont think esure should reimburse Mr P for these items.
 
Ive also considered the question of compensation. esure awarded Mr P £75 in 
compensation for delays in handling his complaint, which our investigator thought fair. I 
agree that esures award of compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 Our investigator also thought that esure should pay £150 for the stress and inconvenience 
suffered by Mr P. However, given my conclusions on those aspects of Mr Ps complaint to 
this service relating to his camera and the DVD system (and other items), then Im not 
persuaded that additional compensation is due. So I dont think esure need to do anything 
more in this respect.
My provisional decision  
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr Ps complaint in 
part. I intend to require esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr P for the cost of his DVD system (£435.98).
Mr P didnt respond to the provisional decision by the date requested.
esure responded to say that they appreciated the change in this services stance as set out 
in the provisional decision, agreeing with my conclusion that it was unlikely that Mr P would 
have left his camera in his car.
However, esure disagreed with my provisional conclusions about the DVD system. While 
accepting my conclusion that the policy confirmed a limit for Car audio, navigation and 
entertainment system, esure said that under Section 2 Damage to your Car it states that 
We wont pay more than the market value of your car at the time of loss, less the total 
excess payable. esure said that this meant (regardless of the cover in the Car audio, 
navigation and enterntainment system schedule) the maximum they would pay would be the 
market value of the car. That is, there would be no cover for the DVD system. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld in part.
Ive considered esures point carefully, however I dont agree. Id considered esures point 
when issuing my provisional decision, where I referred to esures view is that paying Mr P 
the total loss value of the vehicle means theres no separate cover for entertainment 
equipment. Ive thought about this, but I dont agree. I then set out the reasons why I 
disagreed with esures view. In their response to my provisional decision, esure have simply 
re-stated their view and havent provided any additional arguments to counter the reasons I 
set out for why I disagreed.
As such, I havent changed my view to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part (in respect of the 
DVD system). So, my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ps complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr P for the cost of his DVD system (£435.98).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman