DRN-3367400
The complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs S, about Pacific Financial Claims Ltds 
(Pacific Financial) delay in dealing with complaints for mis-sold Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) and their lack of updates. 
What happened
Mr S says he instructed Pacific Financial to look into PPI complaints on behalf of his late 
wife, Mrs S. Mr S says he received two letters from Pacific Financial and he also spoke with 
them in May 2019. He says Pacific Financial started looking into the complaints but then 
stopped communicating with him. Mr S says the last time he heard from Pacific Financial, 
they said the complaints were being progressed. Mr S says he tried calling Pacific Financial 
but theres no answer and he says theres a message saying the number isnt recognised.  
I can see our service referred the complaint to Pacific Financial and asked them to respond 
to Mr S direct. Mr S returned to our service and said Pacific Financial hadnt responded to 
the complaint. Our service contacted Pacific Financial to ask for information but there has 
been no response from Pacific Financial.   
Our investigator looked into things for the estate of Mrs S. Pacific Financial havent provided 
the information requested so our investigator recommended they pay compensation for the 
loss of opportunity to the estate of Mrs S in pursuing a complaint for PPI. Pacific Financial 
havent responded so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important to stress Ive made my decision based on the information I have. I can 
see our investigator has provided Pacific Financial with details of the complaint being made 
against them and allowed them a number of opportunities to provide information. Its 
important that we get an account from all parties in order to consider the complaint fully. In 
this case, while Pacific Financial havent provided any information to our service, Im 
satisfied weve taken sufficient steps, and given sufficient time, to enable them to respond. I 
must be fair to both parties and dont feel its reasonable, in this case, for the estate of Mrs S 
to have to continue waiting for an answer to the complaint.   
Ive seen two letters from Pacific Financial to Mr S. One was sent in April 2018 and thanks 
Mr S for sending a document and asks for a copy of the late Mrs Ss Will or Grant of 
Probate. Pacific Financial say Lender S will require this. Mr S confirms this was sent to 
Pacific Financial. The second letter is undated but refers to Pacific Financial enclosing a pre-
paid envelope. Taking this into account, Im satisfied Pacific Financial were acting on 
instructions from Mr S to pursue PPI complaints. 
Pacific Financial havent provided any evidence to show they submitted any PPI complaints 
relating to the late Mrs S. I can see our investigator has contacted Lender S direct and asked 
them for any correspondence with Pacific Financial. Theyve responded and confirm they 
dont have any information relating to this complaint. 
Pacific Financial havent provided any evidence to show they submitted the complaints prior 
to the PPI deadline of 29 August 2019. Lender S have confirmed they dont have any 
information relating to these complaints and Mr S hasnt received any communication from 
any lenders, against who the complaints were being made, with an outcome. Once a lender 
reaches an outcome, they generally write to the customer direct as well as the claims 
management company acting on behalf of the customer. Given that Mr S hasnt received 
any communication from any lenders, I think its reasonable to conclude that no complaints 
have been submitted. And, the PPI deadline has now passed so this means the estate of 
Mrs S has lost the opportunity to claim for any PPI complaint. In these circumstances, I think 
Pacific Financial should pay compensation to the estate of Mrs S. This compensation isnt a 
speculative assessment on what compensation mightve followed a successful complaint 
against the lenders  rather its to reflect the lost opportunity to the estate of Mrs S to pursue 
the complaints to a final outcome. So, for this, Pacific Financial should pay £250 
compensation to the estate of Mrs S.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Pacific Financial havent taken reasonable steps to progress the late 
Mrs Ss PPI complaints and this has led to a lost opportunity to the estate of Mrs S to pursue 
these to a final outcome. So, Pacific Financial should pay the estate of Mrs S compensation 
of £250.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Pacific Financial Claims Ltd must pay the 
estate of the late Mrs S compensation of £250.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman