DRN-4390329
The complaint
Mr H and Mr W complain about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim on their 
commercial property insurance, particularly about delays and poor communication. 
Where I refer to AXA, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr H and Mr W are joint policyholders of an insurance policy for a property which is rented 
out. They made a claim in November 2022 following an escape of water which had caused 
damage to the property.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim and contractors to carry out the work. 
Several site visits took place, and a mid-January 2023 start date was agreed. 
Before work started AXA said the claim had been passed to the wrong claims handlers and 
should have been referred to a different firm. AXA now did that, which meant the claim 
process effectively started again.
Mr H and Mr W complained about this and in its response to that complaint, AXA 
acknowledged it had caused some delay and paid compensation of £450. They remained 
unhappy and referred the complaint to this Service. 
Our investigators initial view was that the compensation didnt adequately reflect the level of 
distress caused and recommended a further payment but AXA disagreed and said that was 
excessive. AXA asked for an ombudsmans decision.
In the meantime, the claim was progressing but Mr H and Mr W complained about further 
delays. 
AXA responded to the further complaints in May and June 2023 respectively. It again 
accepted there had been delays and offered further compensation amounting to £450 in 
total. 
As events had moved on and new final response letters had been sent, we reviewed the 
complaints together, taking into account the issues addressed in the May and June 2023 
final response letters. Another investigator considered the complaint and said he thought the 
compensation AXA had offered in total  £900  was fair. So he didnt think any further 
payment should be made.
Mr H and Mr W disagreed and they have now requested an ombudsmans decision. They 
explained that the work needed was now in hand but felt it could have been done much 
quicker, and they dont think the compensation is enough to reflect all the distress and 
inconvenience they have suffered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy provides cover for the claim. And its not disputed that there has been some 
delay. AXA has acknowledged this and offered compensation. In addition to the delay, the 
service provided was at times poor. For example, there were times when Mr H and Mr W 
had to chase for information which they were waiting for and to find out what was happening 
with the claim.
The issue here is the impact of the poor claim handling on Mr H and Mr W and whether the 
compensation AXA has offered is enough. 
In this complaint Im only considering what happened up to June 2023. I understand the 
claim has progressed since then but if Mr H and Mr W have concerns about how it was dealt 
with after June they would need to raise that as a fresh complaint.
The initial error delayed things by three months. During that period there were several site 
visits, where Mr H had to go to the property, in addition to phone calls about the claim. All of 
this was effectively unnecessary. 
There was a further short delay between February and March 2023.Some of the delay from 
that point on was unavoidable. For example, there were problems relating to removing 
asbestos that had been found at the property. But AXA didnt keep Mr H and Mr W informed 
properly and they had to chase for updates, with some of their correspondence not being 
answered. This continued through to June. And they had explained theyd suffered some 
bereavements during this time. So the delays with the claim added to their distress at a time 
that was already difficult.
The period Im considering is from November 2022 to June 2023, around seven months.. 
Making any claim like this one will inevitably take some time to deal with, and involve some 
trouble and inconvenience. But the delays meant it went on longer than it should have and 
the poor service added to the distress and inconvenience for Mr H and Mr W during that 
period.
Looking at the circumstances set out above, I think compensation of £900 is fair to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience suffered during that period.
AXA paid £450 initially. It then made further offers that came to £450 but which havent yet 
been paid. I agree its offer of £900 in total is fair. So AXA should make the further payment 
of £450.
My final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc has made an offer to pay £450 (in addition to £450 already paid) to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay £450.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman