DRN-3234088
The complaint
M, an incorporated business, complains that AIB Group (UK) Plc hasnt paid it the funds in 
an account when it was closed.
What happened
The director of M says he recently found a bank statement from 28 April 1993 showing an 
account balance of £123.01. He made a claim for this money from AIB. But it said that the 
account was closed on 13 February 2002. He said that M didnt receive these funds and 
wants them to be paid with compensation.
AIB said that the records it has are that on 11 November 1999 it received a notice of 
intended dissolution of M. On 2 June 2020 a gone away marker was placed on the account 
when a statement sent to M was returned. In July 2001 there was a note made of the 
committee members for M. And it said that the balance was cleared when it was closed, and 
it had a record that it held a letter of authority for this. It no longer has any other records due 
to the time that had passed, and it wasnt required to keep information indefinitely.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that it was 
challenging to investigate a complaint of this nature as businesses wouldnt retain records 
for this length of time. M didnt have any other records to provide. He had seen the 
screenshot confirming that a statement for the period 28 October 1999 to 11 February 2000 
had been returned and so the account had been marked gone away. There was the 
screenshot from 3 July 2001 giving the names of the committee for M including the current 
director. And a screenshot with the closure saying a letter of authority was held. 
He provided a copy of that to M and AIB had confirmed that the name given against this 
entry was a member of administrative staff then. AIB had said that only authorised 
individuals could close the account. There was no account mandate now and the director 
had said that only he had ever made payments and that another signatory now deceased 
wouldnt have made payments. AIB said the account hadnt been marked dormant when 
closed.
There was nothing to confirm what balance if any was in the account when it was closed. He 
said that he had provided the relevant information that was available and wouldnt be going 
into the questions M had raised about what processes would be now and when accounts 
might be marked as dormant.
M didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. The director 
said that AIB had used the time passed as an excuse. He said he presumed the processes 
wouldnt have changed much. He thought that AIB had made a negligent mistake by 
assuming that M was dissolved when that was an unrelated limited company. He wanted to 
know what the letter of authority would have said. And that it was wrong that the money was 
paid away on the whim of a bank clerk without recording where the money had gone. This 
money wasnt the property of AIB, and it didnt matter what the amount was. M wanted to 
know more about the person who made the entry. M said that the actions of AIB could be 
described as theft or possible fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there is now limited information about this account held either by AIB or M 
which is understandable given the passage of time. I appreciate M has a statement from 
1993 but it has no written evidence to support what the balance was after that. And it seems 
that statements were being issued until 2000. There is no evidence it made any enquiry 
about what happened to the account until the director found this statement again and made 
a dormant balance claim. Im unclear how if at all it was accounting for this money as a 
corporation. 
The evidence that I do have is that the account was closed based on a letter of authority. 
AIB says the money was paid to M and that the account was not made dormant. There will 
be no further information from AIB about that. There is nothing to show any irregularity took 
place. I find Ms claims that there was negligence or fraudulent behaviour unsupported by 
any evidence: in fact, these are based on an absence of evidence. And I dont see how 
looking at processes now could help to establish any further what happened 20 years ago. 
The evidence is that AIB knew the committee members of M. There is nothing to support AIB 
then confusing M with a limited company namesake that I understand from public records 
had only been formed in 2015 and dissolved in 2017. Its right that in the final response letter 
dated 13 May 2021 AIB had apparently referred to that record saying that M appeared to be 
dissolved. But that couldnt have also happened in 2002. And even though there was an 
intention of dissolution of M noted in 1999 by AIB that never progressed.
We provide informal dispute resolution and I dont have a reasonable basis to find that AIB 
made a mistake and should make any payment to M. If M doesnt accept my decision it 
remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman