DRN-3949905
The complaint
Ms Ks complaint is about a mortgage she has with Santander UK Plc. She is unhappy that 
following capitalisation of the arrears on her mortgage, she has not been offered an interest 
rate product that gave her as low an interest rate as she thought she should be entitled to.
What happened
Ms K took out her mortgage with Santander in 2008. The mortgage fell into arrears in 2015 
and remained that way until February 2022. At that point, as Ms K had maintained payments 
and reduced the arrears over a period, Santander capitalised the arrears into the mortgage 
balance. The mortgage was on a Bank of England Base Rate tracker interest rate product 
which meant that she was paying 3.7%.
However, Ms K then had the option to take a one-year fixed interest rate of 3.49% or remain 
on the tracker rate. Neither option had any early exit fees or product fees associated with 
them. She chose to transfer the mortgage to the fixed rate option. She complained about the 
options that were available as she felt she was still being punished for a situation that had 
been resolved.
Santander responded to Ms Ks complaint in a letter dated 7 June 2022. It explained that it 
had to assess the risk associated with a mortgage and it offered interest rate products 
accordingly. In her case the only fixed interest rate product it was willing to offer her was the 
3.49% one-year product she was already on. It didnt uphold the complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
He explained that a lender was able to decide what interest rates it would offer a customer 
based on the risk that customer and their mortgage represented to it. In light of the history of 
Ms Ks mortgage, there were two options available to her, and she was on the one that gave 
her the lower interest rate.
Ms K didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be referred to 
an Ombudsman. She didnt explain why she didnt accept the investigators conclusions or 
what she disagreed with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially explain that a mortgage lender doesnt have to provide its customers with 
special interest rate products. When it does, it is a matter of its commercial discretion as to 
what products it offers and to who. As long as it is offering the same products to customers 
in the same situation - applying its policy fairly  what the interest rates being offered were 
would not be something that we would seek to interfere with.
Santander has explained that it determines what interest rate products to offer to consumers 
based on a risk assessment of the mortgage and customer. This risk assessment will take 
into account factors such as the type of mortgage, loan-to-value, the previous conduct of the 
account and the customers financial affairs in general. The lower the risk the customer 
represents, the lower the interest rate associated with products is likely to be. 
In this case, Santander has confirmed the risk rating Ms K was determined to be in 2022 
when she wanted a fixed rate added to her mortgage, and the rates that were available to its 
customers with that rating. I am satisfied that Santander treated Ms K fairly in that it offered 
her the same products as it would its other customers with the same risk rating. As such, I 
cant find that it did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 
11 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman