DRN-3031477
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss O says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Os 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although Halifax 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Miss Os representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Os. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Os 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event Halifax has offered to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Miss O has said the PPI was included as part of the credit card package, but I think 
Halifax made it clear that Miss O didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out. Ill explain why.
Miss Os recollection is that she applied for the credit card by post. But Halifax has told 
us the sale was made in-branch and the documents its given us from the time of the 
sale suggest this was the case. These include a copy of the credit card application and 
agreement which has been signed and dated by Miss O. It is a pre-printed document and 
details some of Miss Os circumstances at the time  her address, date of birth and 
employment income amongst others. I think it likely that this document came about as a 
result of Miss Os discussion with Halifaxs representative. And I see that on the 
agreement there is a section entitled Product details and which offered additional 
services. There is a pre-printed X in the box to take the Credit Card Repayment Cover. 
Miss O went on to sign and date the document so I think if it hadnt been a fair reflection 
of what was discussed during the meeting with the Halifax representative, she would 
have questioned it at the time. And I note that the box for an additional product has been 
left blank and was not taken so I think Miss O knew she had a choice about taking the 
PPI and decided to add it to her credit card account upon application. 
 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss O, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Miss Os circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Miss O was eligible for the 
cover and she didnt have any means such as employee benefits or savings to fall back 
on in the event she wasnt working in order to make her credit card repayments, so she 
had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Miss Os employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Miss O says she had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have 
recommended it. I say this because the condition Miss O told us about was a back injury 
which resulted from an accident the year before. Miss O said she took a week off work at 
the time, saw her GP, had physiotherapy and took over the counter pain relief. We asked 
Miss O for further information about the impact and treatment of the injury but didnt hear 
anything back from her. So, I dont have anything to make me think this was an ongoing 
condition for which Miss O would have thought it likely she would have needed to have 
made a clam because of it. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss O as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. Miss O has said she was financially stretched but I havent 
seen anything to suggest that it was unaffordable her  so it seems like it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss O would 
have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Os circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she 
would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss O would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Os representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Os representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Os individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Os particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss O.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more 
it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Miss Os representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Miss O should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Miss O about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss O wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Miss Os PPI was less than half 
of what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Miss Os case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share  introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy.
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Miss O about the commission. So, it follows that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship  I dont think Halifax treated Miss O 
unfairly. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Miss O back any of the commission she paid for the 
PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has offered to give back to Miss O some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Miss O as if it had treated her unfairly. So, I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Os complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received; it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss O paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss O. 
Bank of Scotland plc should now make arrangements to pay Miss O if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman