DRN-3478222
The complaint
Mr M complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat.co.uk) was irresponsible to
lend to him.
What happened
Mr M had two loans from Cashfloat between May 2021 and June 2021 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 11 May 2021 £500 4m £208.75 17 Sep 2021 14 Jun 2021
2 14 Jun 2021 £1,000 6m £295.50 17 Dec 2021 2 Oct 2021
Mr M says he was approved for his second loan, for twice the amount, within hours of 
repaying loan 1. He says that Cashfloat had asked him for access to his bank statements 
and so it would have seen he had multiple other short-term loans at the time. Mr M adds 
that Cashfloat turned him down for a more recent loan application so, he says, the earlier 
lending must have been irresponsible.
Cashfloat says it conducted a full affordability and creditworthiness assessment. It says 
that it obtained recent payslips, not bank statements, for both loan applications and asked 
Mr M for information about his expenditure as well as reviewing his credit file. Based on 
these figures, which were found to be reasonable compared with statistical averages, 
Cashfloat says it found both loans were affordable to Mr M. It adds that further loan 
applications from Mr M have been declined.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available
information to indicate Mr M was struggling to manage his money.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that Cashfloat would have seen payments to other
high-cost lenders and should have realised he was in financial difficulties. He said the
regulations required Cashfloat to carry out a proportionate assessment of affordability,
including a customers previous loan history. Mr M also questioned the impartiality of this
service given two-thirds of its decisions are in Cashfloats favour.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr M and to Cashfloat on 13 April 2022. Ive summarised 
my findings:
I considered the checks carried out by Cashfloat for loan 1 showed Mr M was already 
in financial difficulties and further lending was unsustainable because:
oMr Ms credit file showed seven defaulted accounts and Mr M was only 
making payments to two of the four outstanding ones;
oHe already had three open short-term loans and one had been taken out 
recently;
oHe was already struggling to repay existing loans  one was delinquent and 
one was on a repayment arrangement;
For loan 2, I found that Cashfloat should have seen that Mr M still appeared to be 
struggling financially and should not have approved this loan either:
oAlthough Mr M had settled one further defaulted account and the balance 
continued to decrease on another, he still had a combined balance of over 
£3,700 on his two remaining defaulted accounts to which he wasnt making 
any repayments;
oThe balance on his credit cards had increased due to two cash advances;
oMr M was still in a payment arrangement for one short-term loan and had also 
taken out two further short-term loans in the weeks prior to loan 2.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Ms complaint about both loans.
Mr M did not respond to my provisional decision.
Cashfloat responded to say, in summary, that Mr M was in the early stages of borrowing and 
had only opened one small short-term loan in the previous six months. It says his 
outstanding credit was well below the national average and, although it agreed he had three 
outstanding short-term loans, two of them were historic. Cashfloat adds that it went beyond 
the basic requirements by obtaining payslips and that Mr Ms indebtedness reduced slightly 
between loans 1 and 2. It says this, and the small number of short-term loans, proves that 
Mr M was not overly-reliant on this type of borrowing. It further adds that Mr M was 
demonstrating he was addressing his credit problems by repaying defaulted accounts. 
Finally, Cashfloat says that the fact Mr M questioned the impartiality of this service seems to 
have influenced the change in decision in this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed my provisional decision in light of Cashfloats response to it. Although I 
accept Mr M was in the early stages of borrowing and Cashfloats checks went beyond the 
basic requirements, I cant see Cashfloat has provided any additional information. The 
checks showed both current and historical financial difficulties and I find it was irresponsible 
to have approved the lending. I made that decision purely based on the merits of the case.
So I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat.co.uk) 
should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, 
fees and charges on loans 1 and 2;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the payments made by Mr M which were 
considered part of A, calculated from the payment date to the settlement 
date;
C. Pay Mr M the total of A plus B;
D. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file about loans 1 and 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman