DRN-3333356
The complaint
Mr R complains about the decision by CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV 
not to cover a CBCT scan under a dental insurance claim.
What happened
Mr R holds dental insurance cover through his employers group scheme. His son is 
also covered.
In February 2021, Mr Rs son had orthodontic treatment, including a CBCT scan. Mr R 
made a claim for the scan, however, CIGNA refused to cover this. Unhappy with this, Mr 
R brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought CIGNAs 
claims decision had been in line with the policy terms.
I issued a provisional decison on 11 February 2022. Heres what I said:
The policy includes a list of benefits that CIGNA will cover, and the maximum amounts 
payable. These are set out under the headings preventative treatment, minor treatment, 
and major treatment. As our investigator has said, CBCT scans arent included in that list.
However, the list also includes orthodontic treatment, and only says that cosmetic 
treatment isnt covered under this benefit.
Further information is then given later in the policy about orthodontic treatment. 
Under whats covered, it says:
We will pay the benefit for orthodontic treatment for members and dependants.
Under whats not covered, it says:
Any Invisalign orthodontic treatment for members or dependants under age 18. Please 
also see Other charges and treatments not covered section.
Ive looked at the Other charges and treatments not covered section, and this lists 
various treatments not covered (though CBCT scans arent mentioned in this list). It also 
says any treatment not listed in the list of benefits. However, the list of benefits includes 
cover for orthodontic treatment.
The policy doesnt define whats meant by orthodontic, though treatment is defined as:
any dental procedure or service that is carried out or personally controlled by a 
dentist, as well as procedures provided by a hygienist, and is included in the list of 
benefits.
My understanding is that a CBCT scan is a type of x-ray used by dentists (that gives 
more information than normal x-rays).
Ive looked at the CBCT invoice and it says the treatment was carried out by the 
orthodontist. That being the case, I think its reasonable to say the CBCT scan was a 
dental service carried out by a dentist, and would therefore fall under the definition of 
treatment.
The treatment was done by an orthodontist, and so its reasonable to say it was 
orthodontic treatment, which is covered by the policy.
I therefore intend to require CIGNA to accept the claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any comments they wished to make before I made a 
final decision. 
Both parties responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision and have made no further comments, 
Im satisfied that my provisional findings should apply, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require CIGNA Life Insurance 
Company of Europe SA-NV to pay the claim under the remaining policy terms.
If Mr R has already paid the invoice, CIGNA should reimburse him directly and add 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum, from the date the invoice was paid to the 
date of settlement.
If CIGNA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman