DRN-2456098
The complaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include its 
pluming and drainage company and others insofar as I hold that insurance company 
responsible for their actions.
Mrs M had a property that she let to a tenant. For that property, Mrs M had a British Gas 
home care agreement. We categorise that as a home emergency policy, although it isnt just 
for emergencies.
In July 2019 Mrs M complained to British Gas that its failure to identify and fix a leak from the 
bathroom toilet had caused the partial collapse of the kitchen ceiling below.
British Gas sent a final response dated 12 September 2019 turning down the complaint. 
Unhappy with that, Mrs M brought her complaint to us in late December 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
didnt think that it was fair to hold British Gas responsible for the damage to the ceiling. 
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She and her tenant relied on British Gas to locate and remedy the leak.
The leak was from the toilet into the area of ceiling below it.
British Gas wrongly said the leak was from the shower over the bath.
The floor under the bath was dry.
The stain on the ceiling got progressively worse.
In July 2019 British Gas eventually correctly located the source of the leak and fixed 
the leaking toilet. It shouldve done so sooner. When it did, the leak stopped.
The ceiling collapsed because the leak had been left for 3 or 4 months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mrs M and British Gas each say, the policy included cover for plumbing and 
drainage. I dont know of any British Gas policy that says it covers re-tiling or re-grouting of 
bathroom tiles.
The British Gas policy terms include the following terms:
Authority to carry out work
If youre not at the property when our engineer visits, you must make sure that there 
is somebody else present who can give instructions to our engineer on your behalf
and
Tenants or letting agents arranging visits
Your tenants or your letting agents can call us directly to arrange any engineers 
visit.
So if the landlord isnt present, I dont find it unreasonable for British Gas to deal with a 
tenant instead. 
The policy terms also included the following:
We wont be responsible for repairing any pre-existing damage, nor will we replace 
or restore the original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings, 
decoration
So I find it likely that if there was boxing which was covering up pipes, British Gas would  
before removing it  seek agreement that it could proceed on the basis that it wouldnt put 
the boxing back exactly as before.
The policy terms also included the following:
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture 
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we 
caused it. For example damage caused by water leaks.
So I dont consider that British Gas was responsible for water damage unless it caused such 
damage.
I find it possible that there may be more than one leak in a bathroom. 
From its records, I see that on visits between 28 March 2019 and 26 June 2019 British Gas 
noted loose and poorly-grouted tiles on the wall around the bath. It advised the tenant not to 
use the shower over the bath. British Gas didnt fix the tiling. But the policy didnt cover that.
British Gas didnt cause the water damage. Mrs Ms complaint is that British Gas failed to 
minimise water damage that had already started.
Mrs M and British Gas each say that on 9 July 2019 it removed the boxing around the toilet 
to investigate a leak. British Gas says it changed a washer. So at that stage, attention had 
focused on the toilet. British Gas had presumably got agreement to remove the boxing.
From the photographs Ive seen, I find that there was evidence of wetness on the floor under 
the bath.Mrs M hasnt shown where the toilet was located. And Ive seen photographs not only of 
staining of the celling of the kitchen but also of the ceiling of a narrower downstairs room. 
Theres evidence that  after British Gas fixed the toilet - there was at least one further leak 
which British Gas again said was coming from the shower. 
So I find it likely that between March and July 2019 water had been leaking into the kitchen 
ceiling from the tiling over the bath - which British Gas didnt cover and Mrs M didnt get 
fixed.
Theres not enough evidence that the toilet was leaking until shortly before the ceiling came 
down in July 2019.
In any event, Mrs M hasnt shown us invoices or proof of payment for the repair and 
redecoration of the kitchen ceiling.
For all these reasons, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to compensate 
Mrs M for the damage to the kitchen ceiling.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman