DRN-3541422
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) failed to support 
him during his financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr S says that he informed AESEL of financial difficulties during the end of 2016 and 2017, 
specifically on 31 January 2017, but he says they failed to provide him with any support and 
they should have worked with him to help him pay what he owed. Mr S says it was around 8 
March 2017 that he started to fall behind on his payments, which was another indication of 
financial difficulties he had.
Mr S says that in May 2017, when he couldnt do anything else, AESEL passed his account 
to a third party debt management company (DMC), despite multiple calls to AESEL for help. 
He wanted AESEL to refund any interest and charges from his accounts and to remove any 
adverse credit markers from account opening. Mr S made a complaint to AESEL.
AESEL did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said their system notes showed that they 
spoke with him on 31 January 2017, when Mr S contacted them to say he was struggling 
with his charge card payment. They told him the payment was required for that card by 26 
March 2017 and it was noted he thought that was possible and they agreed a call back on 8 
March 2017. They say they advised Mr S of their regain programme, which would result in all 
of his accounts being cancelled, with intertest and charges no longer applied. When they 
called him back, they said their notes show that they advised Mr S that it looked like he 
needed a repayment plan, but he would rather keep both of his cards. 
AESEL said that their notes show it was agreed to review the situation over the next couple 
of weeks and that the card would be cancelled if it was unpaid by 24 March. They said Mr S 
was made aware that he needed to call them before this date if he didnt want to lose the 
card, or they could discuss a payment plan if required. AESEL said there was no further 
record of him contacting them, so on 1 April 2017, as he had not met the required payments 
on either of his accounts, they were passed to a third party DMC. They said that on 12 
December 2017, Mr S accepted a short settlement offer, making a final payment of £2,200 
on an outstanding balance of £3,520.92, which was recorded with credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) and the account was settled with a remaining balance of £1,320.92 which wouldnt 
be pursued. They said all interest and charges were applied correctly. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. She 
said AESEL had been charging him interest correctly on the account. And she wouldnt feel 
it would be right to ask them to refund all the interest and charges since he opened the 
account. She said as he hadnt accepted the options AESEL offered him, his account was 
referred to a DMC to recuperate the arrears and the outstanding balance. She said as he 
didnt call back and update them on his circumstances, or put a plan in place, the adverse 
credit was then the next step. She said if he had been in contact with them they couldve 
gone through an income and expenditure of his finances and set up a plan that they had 
mentioned previously. Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive asked AESEL if they have a copy of the call recordings that they had with Mr S when his 
financial difficulties first occurred. But due to the time thats passed, AESEL does not have a 
copy of the call recordings. So Im unfortunately unable to rely on these to listen to what 
exactly had been discussed. 
I have looked in great detail at Mr Ss AESEL statements and the system notes from around 
this timeframe, in addition to what Mr S has already told us about his situation at the time in 
order to see whether AESEL treated Mr S fairly here. 
Ive looked at Mr Ss statements from January 2016, to see if AESEL should have been 
aware of any financial difficulties from Mr S. I can see that he generally makes at least his 
contractual minimum payment. But his statement dated 5 June 2016 asks for a minimum 
payment of £78 to be made by 30 June 2016. Mr S does not make a payment by the due 
date and therefore his following minimum payment due is for £173 to be paid by 30 July 
2016. He paid £200 by the due date. Mr S then makes at least the minimum payment for the 
rest of 2016 and sometimes more than this. 
Ive looked at the system notes on Mr Ss account that AESEL have provided me for 2016 
and there are no signs that Mr S has contacted them about any financial difficulties in this 
year, so it appears the missed payment in 2016 was an oversight which was rectified by the 
following month.
So Ive looked at what happened in 2017. The system note on 31 January says that Mr S is 
currently struggling with his payment. It says that he had been using the card while he was 
out of work. But Ive previously seen no indication to suggest that Mr S had informed them 
he had been out of work. And as Ive mentioned, his statements in 2016  apart from one 
month (which was rectified the following month) show he paid at least his contractual 
minimum monthly payment, so this wouldnt alert AESEL of any financial difficulty he may 
have had being out of work. The note shows he is now in work, but he is struggling to get the 
funds together so the notes suggested the call handler talked to him about the regain 
programme, which would result in all of his accounts being cancelled, with interest and 
charges no longer applied. 
The note also references OMD. I asked AESEL about this. They said that this stood for 
Oldest Minimum Due. They said that this option allowed Mr S to pay off the oldest balance 
on the account, before the system auto cancelled an account at day 90  which would have 
been 26 March 2017. Im persuaded that this is what Mr S would have agreed to instead of 
entering the regain programme. I say this because this option gave him over seven weeks 
respite from making payments as opposed to the regain programme closing his accounts 
straight away. And a call back was arranged on 8 March 2017.
The note on 8 March shows that the call back was made and that a number of things were 
discussed. It says that Mr S may need a payment plan, but it also says that as once moves 
can settle both cards but would rather keep. This is why Im satisfied that Mr S didnt want to 
choose the regain programme as the cards would have been closed, whereas he had 
stressed a preference to keep the cards, but in doing so, interest would still be charged as 
opposed to the regain programme. As the note suggested about Mr S moving, I asked him 
about this. He confirmed that a family member was selling their family home and would have 
loaned Mr S the money that they couldve afforded to. So its possible that Mr S told AESEL 
about this given the system note. The same note also shows that Mr S will review this over the next couple of weeks if can 
meet OMD. So its likely that is why no further support was offered or put in place after this 
call. It would appear that there was a possibility, based on the house sale that the payment 
could be made by the timeframe given by AESEL to avoid the cards being closed. The note 
shows they would try and contact Mr S on 22 March. Ive not seen any successful call note 
here. So its not clear whether AESEL attempted to ring Mr S and he didnt answer, or they 
forgot to call him. But the same note is clear that Mr S is aw(a)re needs to try and call us 
24/03 if doesnt want to lose card or can talk (payment) plan if required.
So from the notes of the calls on 31 January and 8 March 2017, it appears that AESEL had 
set out that Mr S needed to take action to avoid the cards being closed. He was offered 
forbearance in the form of the regain programme and he was offered the seven week respite 
before the cards would be closed. It was discussed that a repayment plan could be 
discussed if required also. But Ive seen no evidence that Mr S contacted AESEL before the 
dates given and therefore they took the action that they did and passed the account to a 
DMC. Part two of the credit agreement says We may sell, transfer or assign this agreement 
and your account. We may do so at any time without notifying you, unless we're required to 
notify you by law. So I cant say that AESEL had done anything wrong by passing the 
outstanding debt to a DMC.
It appears from Mr Ss 2017 statements that the last interest was charged in May 2017 
(which would have covered the previous statement period). There is no interest entries on 
the statements after this, but they show that he started to make payments of £100 a month, 
from May 2017 so the outstanding balance was decreasing and it was not increasing due to 
interest added after this date. Im not persuaded that AESEL were unreasonable to charge 
interest prior to this, even if Mr S had indicated in late January that he may be struggling to 
make the payment. 
I say this as things were left open ended, Mr S told AESEL that he was now in work, it would 
be a possibility he could make the payment by 26 March. In March the notes still suggest 
that he would review the situation for a couple of weeks to see if he could make the 
payment, so Im not persuaded that AESEL should have automatically took action prior to 
when they did, which could have had consequences for Mr Ss credit file and go against his 
wish of keeping the cards open. As his financial situation couldve improved, as indicated 
with the potential house sale proceeds he may have had to pay his cards  although I 
understand that the sale took place later in 2017, which enabled Mr S to accept and pay a 
short settlement offer  which should be reflected on his credit file. 
Im satisfied AESEL gave Mr S options such as the regain programme to help manage his 
situation and this would have stopped interest at an earlier point  although Mr S would not 
be able to use his cards again. But when Mr S failed to contact them by 24 or 26 March as 
the indication was that he would do, then they started to take action to pass the outstanding 
debt to a DMC and then it appears he was not charged interest after the statement period 
covering 6 April  6 May 2017. When interest was charged prior to this, it appears to have 
been charged in line with the credit agreement. So it follows, I wont be asking AESEL to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman