DRN-3388972
The complaint
Ms M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) lent irresponsibly to her on 
three occasions.
What happened
Ms M says she took out three loans with NatWest and believes they were never affordable 
for her. She took out a loan in March 2016 of £10,750 for 27 months, making monthly 
repayments of around £439. In September 2016 Ms M took out a loan of £7,400 for 60 
months, making monthly repayments of around £175. And in September 2017, Ms M took 
out a loan of £14,500 for 60 months, making monthly repayments of around £366. 
Ms M says she was consistently using her overdraft facility each month to buy necessities. 
She also says she was in significant debt with other third-party credit providers where she 
was often making late payments, or the minimum repayments required.
Ms M also says she has a mental health condition and keeping up with the payments 
exacerbated her mental health. The combined debts she says she had, left her feeling she 
had no way out of the situation and by November 2019, Ms M says she had loans and 
overdraft debts totalling around £10,400.
In November 2019, NatWest got in touch with Ms M about some recent missed payments 
and asked her to get in touch with them so they can work together to put in place a 
repayment plan.
She says NatWest continued to add interest and charges and the total debt was around 
£12,250 when she says they arranged for a debt recovery company to recover repayments 
in May 2020.
Ms M complained to NatWest as she wanted them to remove all markers from her credit file 
and refund any applicable interest and charges, as well as pay compensation for the worry 
and distress this had caused her.
NatWest responded to Ms M saying that they took into account the information provided by 
Ms M alongside internal and credit reference agency information when lending and found the 
loans met their criteria. They said they have a strict lending criteria as part of their 
application process and that they need to assess whether the new borrowing would be 
affordable. They also say they checked their records and couldnt see any evidence Ms M 
informed them of her health condition.
Ms M, unhappy with NatWests response, referred her complaint to our service. During our 
involvement, NatWest made an offer to Ms M of £300 which our service communicated to 
her. Ms M declined the offer. Our investigator found that NatWest didnt need to take any 
action to resolve the complaint over and above the £300 theyve already offered. The 
investigator looked into what checks and information NatWest should have reviewed at the 
time of each loan application and concluded they wouldnt have reasonably foreseen any 
financial difficulties when approving the loans. The investigator also found that from 
everything he had seen, NatWests approach was in line with what hed expect when trying 
to collect an unpaid loan.
Ms M disagreed with the investigators findings. She explained that due to her mental health 
in 2017, she was in a vulnerable position and that NatWest had a duty of care to ensure she 
was suitable and able to afford the repayments. She also says, among other things, that she 
was highly emotional and also mentally unwell at the time and did not truly understand the 
financial impact paying back the loan would have.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
 including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach while deciding Ms Ms complaint.
NatWest needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. This means it needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M could afford to repay the amount it was 
lending. A proportionate check is dependent on a number of factors including  but not 
limited to  Ms Ms particular circumstances (e.g. her financial history, current situation and 
outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost 
of credit obtained.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Ms Ms case.
In this case, NatWest lent to Ms M on three occasions. The first two loans, the purpose was 
mainly recorded as debt consolidation. The third loan was recorded as other, and NatWest 
say it was also used to absorb an existing loan. I think, given that her second loan was 
repaid in full around the time the third loan was taken out, Im satisfied that it was partly for 
debt consolidation. The amounts borrowed varied from around £7,400 to £14,500.
NatWest says it agreed to Ms Ms applications after carrying out credit searches and taking 
some income and expenditure information. On the other hand, Ms M says the loans were 
unaffordable and that she shouldnt have been lent to. She also says that due to her mental 
health condition at the time the third loan was approved, NatWest had a duty of care to 
ensure she was suitable and able to afford the repayments.
NatWest has provided details of Ms Ms declared income and expenditure at each loan 
application and which they say they relied on when deciding to approve the loans. Having 
seen Ms Ms statements in the lead up to the loans being provided, I dont think there was 
anything concerning during those periods. There wasnt anything in Ms Ms transactions 
prior to the loans, which contradicted the income and expenditure figures NatWest say they 
had used as they were broadly similar. NatWest say they also carried out checks to gain an 
understanding of Ms Ms credit history and her credit commitments. Ms M provided a copy of her credit file for the service to review. I also hadnt seen anything in her credit file which I 
think should have prompted NatWest to act differently. 
I think the checks NatWest say they had undertaken at each loan application were 
reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances and that it was fair to conclude that the 
loan repayments looked like they shouldve been affordable for Ms M based on the 
information it had gathered. I wouldnt have expected the information NatWest saw in its 
credit checks and on the information in the bank statements to have given NatWest any 
particular cause for concern.
Allowing for the fact that the loans were taken out for debt consolidation  in other words, Ms 
M said she would use the loans to repay existing debt  NatWest worked out that her 
disposable income met their criteria with no issues identified. I think in these circumstances 
NatWest was reasonably entitled to take a view that Ms M was borrowing specifically to help 
her manage her finances more responsibly and it looked like she ought to be able to afford 
to do so on the figures it worked out.
To sum up, I dont think there was enough in the information that NatWest could see (or 
should have looked at) that I think wouldve made it realise that Ms M couldnt afford to pay 
her loans in a sustainable way. I think the checks that NatWest carried out before it agreed 
to provide the loans were proportionate and that it was entitled to rely on the information it 
acquired which showed that the loans looked sustainably affordable for Ms M.
Ive also looked at whether NatWest was aware or ought to reasonably have been aware, 
that Ms M could be in financial difficulties by reviewing her use of her account. And if so, 
whether it was appropriate for NatWest to apply any interest, fees and charges.  
Once a lender is aware a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, we would expect it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, 
wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and 
then assess the most appropriate way to move forward. 
NatWest must also monitor their customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
Im sorry Ms M later found herself in financial difficulty. I accept at times Ms M may have had 
to go into her overdraft. However, I also am mindful that the purpose of Ms Ms loans were 
mainly to consolidate debt. 
One of the ways in which a lender can provide forbearance and due consideration is by 
refinancing existing debt onto more affordable terms. So in this case, I think its fair to say 
that NatWest supported Ms M by attempting to provide her with consolidation loans so she 
wouldnt need to rely on her overdraft facility as often. Having reviewed the account 
statements, Im satisfied the rescheduled terms were affordable to Ms M. And by 
rescheduling the debt, this would have prevented further overdraft interest and fees being 
applied to the account.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think they had. They did sufficient 
checks in the circumstances and made a fair lending decision based on the information it 
obtained. Im also satisfied NatWest responded to Ms M with forbearance and due 
consideration once it was aware that she was in financial difficulty.NatWest has said that Ms M first had a direct debit returned unpaid in October 2019. She 
was then transferred to a recoveries department and interest payments were frozen in 
February 2020.
I know Ms Ms position did worsen after the third loan was approved and agreed. But this 
was after the decision to lend had already been taken. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
for me to use hindsight here or say NatWest should have known this would happen.
In January 2021, NatWest say that their collections team were unable to come to a suitable 
arrangement with Ms M and so they passed her account to a third-party debt recovery 
company to act as their collection agent.
Im sorry to hear Ms M had a mental health condition during the times NatWest lent to her, 
but it doesnt automatically mean that NatWest has done anything wrong. I cant see that 
NatWest was aware of this at the times her loans were approved, so I dont think it would be 
fair to ask NatWest to have reasonably acted on information they werent made aware of.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Ms M. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. NatWest has already 
made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint. Ms M should contact NatWest directly if 
she now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think NatWest needs to do anything to settle the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman