DRN-1568925
The complaint
Mr N complains that Experian Limited is refusing to delete both his personal and financial 
data from their systems and stop selling it to third-party companies.
What happened
Mr N wrote to Experian withdrawing his consent for them to store, sell or share his data. He 
said they didnt have his permission to share information about his creditworthiness with any 
company affiliated with them, and he did not want to receive marketing offers.
When Experian didnt action his request, Mr N issued them with a formal notice giving them 
14 days to cease processing his data and delete it. He said Experian did not have a 
legitimate reason to hold his data, and he didnt view them to be a fit and proper company to 
do so, because theyd suffered repeated data breaches. Mr N referred to data breaches in 
both 2015 and 2017 to support his request.
Mr N said his creditworthiness had been or was being damaged and adverse data they 
continued to process, manage and pass on to third parties was impeding his ability to apply 
for credit, mortgages or other financial services. Mr N also wanted £2,000 to compensate 
him for the distress their failure to comply with his original request had caused.
Experian didnt agree to delete the data they held on Mr N, saying as a credit reference 
agency (CRA), they had a legitimate interest in holding it and they only held and used 
information in line with relevant rules and regulations. They also explained the 2015 data 
breach Mr N had referred to related to Experian in the USA and the 2017 incident concerned 
another CRA unrelated to them.
Experian declined Mr Ns request for compensation but apologised for some issues hed had 
with their phone lines and for not having actioned his request to opt out of marketing emails 
sooner. They confirmed this had now been done and he would no longer receive any such 
contact from them.
Mr N remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. He said his data had been 
hacked and as a result his financial records are incorrect. Mr N also said hed not given 
Experian consent to handle his data which, following recent changes in the Data Protection 
Act 2018 (DPA) he has the right to do. By refusing to delete his data Mr N says Experian are 
in breach of the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).
One of our investigators looked into things. She thought Experian, as a CRA, had legitimate 
reason to hold Mr Ns data. As such she said they didnt require his consent, so she wouldnt 
be asking them to delete it. Our investigator also said Experian had told her theyd not been 
subject to a data breach in the UK, but it wasnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman to 
consider the effectiveness of their security measures and suggested Mr N could contact 
the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) if he believed they were insufficient.And as Experian had also confirmed theyd suppressed Mr Ns data from being used for 
marketing purposes as hed requested, our investigator didnt think they needed to do 
anything more.
Mr N didnt agree. He said regulations changed in 2018 with introducing of the Data 
Protection Act 2018 which specifically states that any private company requires explicit 
consent to possess any private and financial data. He said Experian only collected data for 
commercial purposes to sell to other parties. He reiterated hed withdrawn his consent for 
Experian to hold his data. But our investigator said her view hadnt changed so Mr N asked 
for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general information. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an 
independent public body, set up by Parliament to sort out complaints resolve disputes 
between businesses and their customers. In doing so, we act fairly and impartially, providing 
customers with an alternative to taking court action. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account the relevant 
UK law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and industry good 
practice. Mr N has also referenced US law and regulations when presenting his complaint. I 
havent taken these into account when reaching my decision, as they are outside of my 
jurisdiction. But I want to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the other evidence 
and arguments provided, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
As a CRA, Experian is entitled to hold personal data about customers on behalf of banks 
and other financial organisations. The introduction of the GDPR didnt change this. The 
DPA - the UK law which complements the European Unions GDPR - doesnt require CRAs 
to have a customers consent before they are allowed to process the data, as long as they 
have a one of six valid reasons for doing so, known as lawful bases. Experian has 
confirmed that the lawful basis it relies on is legitimate interest. 
I appreciate Mr N doesnt agree with this. Our investigator provided a summary of the ICOs 
guidance in her view, so I wont repeat it here, but more information can be found on their 
website.
Mr N has the right to ask Experian to remove his data from their marketing list. Hes done 
this and Experian have confirmed theyve actioned his request. Ive not been given any 
reason, nor seen any evidence to suggest this isnt the case.
Mr N has said his financial records are incorrect as a result of his data held by Experian 
being hacked. Experian has confirmed they have not had any data breaches in the UK and 
Mr N's data has not been breached, hacked or compromised. However, Mr Ns not 
specifically said what about his financial records is incorrect. 
Companies such as lenders and utility providers can decide what customer information they 
report to CRAs. Its likely a customer will have given them permission to do this, by agreeing 
to the terms and conditions when taking out credit or a service. Each company is responsible for reporting its own information. So if Mr N is disputing specific information being reported 
by a particular company, hed need to contact that company directly. The CRAs cannot 
amend the data without the permission of the company.
So to summarise, Ive not seen anything to suggest Experian has done anything wrong. 
Theyve acted fairly in holding Mr Ns data in line with ICO guidance and theres no evidence 
of any specific breach. Theyve also dealt with Mr Ns request not to receive marketing 
information and offered apologies in this respect. I think this is a reasonable response to Mr 
Ns concerns, so I wont be asking them to do anything differently.
I know this isnt the answer Mr N was hoping for. If he has general concerns about the way 
Experian processes data and handles security, Mr N may wish to raise these with the ICO.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman