DRN-3354932
The complaint
Ms N complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse funds she
lost when falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Im aware that Ive condensed events in less detail than they were presented. I hope Ms 
N and NatWest wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive done that. Ours is an informal
dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint  our rules allow me to do that. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of 
the complaint.
In summary, Ms N wanted to invest her money in order to make a profit. Shed 
previously tried to successfully invest in different financial instruments using a trading 
account online. And a year or so later, she received a recommendation about someone 
claiming to be a trader of binary options/crypto currency on a different platform. An 
acquittance had told her that this person, (who for the purposes of this decision Ill refer 
to as S), claimed to be working with a trading website called Bull Option, managing to 
make money for people.
Interested in using their services, Ms N contacted S via social media. Over the space of 
the following weeks, she ended up paying a total of £34,258.87 (plus corresponding 
bank fees) using both her NatWest debit card and NatWest credit card.
S had convinced her to set up an account with Bull Option and this seemingly legitimate 
trading platform was where Ms N thought her funds were being invested. She was given 
a portal which she believed was showing how her investments were fairing  but it later 
came to light that this was superficial, and Ms N was in fact being scammed. Ultimately, 
her funds were stolen.
To facilitate these so called trades, S had told Ms N that she would need to first send 
money to a different business, Simplex. This is a genuine company, which would convert 
money paid to it from Ms Ns NatWest accounts and then transfer it away to different 
online wallets as instructed by S.
Put simply, when the money left NatWest it went to a legitimate firm  but after Simplex 
turned it into a different currency type, this was then sent to accounts controlled by S. 
Hence, where the loss occurred for Ms N, as all along she actually had no investments.
Afterwards, Ms N had difficulty withdrawing the money she had put in. Bull Option said 
that she would have to pay fees to get any of her funds out. Amongst other things, Ms N 
was told she needed to pay insurance and withdrawal charges. This is where she 
became credulous about what was happening and eventually ended up raising that she 
had been a victim of a scam with NatWest.
Upon looking into what had happened, NatWest declined to reimburse the money Ms N 
had paid out of her two accounts. Unhappy about this, Ms N brought her complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that NatWest 
ought to offer a refund of some of the payments, on the basis that the bank should have 
stepped in given the uncharacteristic spending they exhibited. Ms N agreed with this 
recommendation.
NatWest does not agree. It maintains that its not liable for Ms Ns loss. Especially, when 
the payments it executed all went to whats known to be a genuine company in Simplex.
Therefore, NatWest argues that Ms N lost her money after the bank had completed its part 
in the transactions.
Because NatWest is not in agreement, the matter has been escalated to me to decide.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 25 February 2022. I have copied the findings 
section and my proposed conclusion within this decision below:
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, I am minded not to 
uphold it.
I know my intended decision will be disappointing for Ms N. This is a finely balanced 
case and Id like to assure her that Ive duly considered everything thats been 
provided. But on account of the evidence, Im not currently persuaded that NatWest 
ought to refund the transactions in dispute here. I say so for the following reasons:
relevant considerations
Its not in question that the disputed payments were all authorised by Ms N 
for the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) in force 
at the time. They were made by using the legitimate security credentials 
provided by NatWest. So, these should be regarded as authorised 
payments, even if Ms N was the victim of a sophisticated scam.
As a starting position, banks are under an obligation to follow their 
customers instructions. Banks have a duty to make payments or 
accommodate cash withdrawal requests correctly and promptly so that 
legitimate payments are made properly. So, consumers who authorise a 
payment, even where that turns out to be fraud related or they were tricked 
into doing so, start off on the back-foot when it comes to getting that 
payment returned to them because the bank was following a valid instruction.
There are some situations where banks  taking into account relevant rules, 
codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that something 
wasnt right or should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the 
transaction before making the payment. With this in mind, Ive looked into what 
this means for this case and whether NatWest should have done more to 
prevent these disputed payments.unusual or uncharacteristic activity
So far as I am reasonably aware, all of the ten payments in question were 
made to Simplex (or its subsidiaries). I have therefore reached my 
provisional findings on the basis that the transactions Ms N would like 
returned initially went to a legitimate firm.
Looking at these payments, I dont consider that the first four (all of which had 
a value under £2,000) were unusual or suspicious enough for NatWest to 
intervene. The PSRs are designed to protect consumers  but also to ensure 
that banks provide services without undue delay. So, there is a balance to be 
struck between bankers identifying transactions that could potentially be 
fraudulent, and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Under these 
circumstances, if NatWest were expected to intervene for every payment of a 
similar size, it would risk grinding the banking/payment system to a halt.
Its evident that Ms N made legitimate debit card transactions and payments 
out of her account that were comparable to the first four in dispute here. 
These recent account movements wouldve made it increasingly difficult for 
NatWest to correctly identify the genuine transactions from those at risk 
from fraud and scams.
Whats more, Ms Ns current account (linked to her debit card) was repeatedly 
credited leading up to these payments. So, the disputed amounts that were 
paid out are not necessarily distinctive when looked at against the backdrop of 
what was paid in. From NatWests perspective, these couldve simply been 
planned payments made possible by frequent credits  such is the nature of a 
current account.
All in all, I cannot safely conclude that NatWest ought to have intervened for 
these four debit card payments. Indeed, Ms N accepted our investigators 
findings that they would not be refunded on the basis that NatWest could not 
reasonably be expected to have questioned them.
On the other hand, I find that NatWest had enough to suspect fraud or a scam 
 and therefore justify an intervention  when Ms N instructed it to make the 
first credit card payment to Simplex. In light of how Ms N normally operated 
this account (which is separate to her current account), I think that NatWest 
ought to have identified the risk of harm with this £8,230.89 card payment. 
This was a highly unusual and uncharacteristic amount for her to pay out 
compared to recent months (if ever). Given that it conflicted with her typical 
pattern of spending, Im satisfied NatWest ought to have taken steps before it 
allowed the money to be let go.
Therefore, unless my provisional findings are persuasively rebutted, I intend 
to decide that NatWest ought to have intervened with appropriate questioning 
about this c.£8,000 credit card transaction.causation
Having concluded that NatWest ought to have questioned Ms N about this 
particular payment, next I need to determine what difference (if any) such an 
intervention wouldve made. So, would the loss being claimed for have 
occurred but for NatWest taking appropriate action? This can otherwise be 
referred to as causation.
Ive thought carefully about what sort of questions NatWest shouldve asked 
Ms N about this credit card transaction. Finding out details such as who the 
money is being paid to and why is accepted good practice in the banking 
industry, because this generally affords bank staff a more informed position 
when deciding whether to proceed with the payment instruction without further 
enquiries. This remains true in this case; I find it would have been 
proportionate for NatWest to have asked Ms N about the nature of the 
payment.
Its common ground that Ms N was aware and satisfied that her payments 
were going to Simplex in the first instance. S had convinced her that this was 
commonplace and Simplex was their preferred choice as her broker. So, 
even if NatWest had questioned why she was paying this company, yet her 
main dealings was with another entity (Bull Option), I find it more likely that 
not that Ms N wouldve been able to answer without sufficient concern.
After all, we know it was Ms N who sought out S upon hearing good things 
about their services. Its not in question that Ms N wanted to make a profit 
by investing  thats precisely why she was looking into trading in these 
financial instruments. But Ms N looked to use S specifically because word-
of-mouth had given her confidence in their ability to make her money. I find 
this important, as reputation (especially when shared amongst 
acquittances) tends to add trust to the service being rendered.
I also have to bear in mind that at the time, Ms N had already made multiple 
payments without suspecting anything untoward was happening. By her own 
admission, S had convinced her that Bull Option was not only genuine  but 
her investments were doing well. This was reinforced with persuasive material, 
as Ms N was able to see and control a superficial Bull Option portal which she 
thought showed exactly where her money was. Ms N has said that seeing her 
investments gave her further assurances that everything was above board.
As I understand it, Ms N had tried trading before a couple of years prior. While 
she used an entirely different platform (which was genuine), she nonetheless 
had relatively recent interactions with professionals in the industry. This so-
called Bull Option platform was part of what was clearly a sophisticated scam, 
supported with documentation and correspondence designed to look 
legitimate. I have to assume that Ms N was satisfied her interactions with S 
and the documentation provided was similar enough to what she had 
previously tried and tested before in order to go ahead. Everything indicates 
that she understood and was happy with the arrangement.
So, overall, the evidence strongly suggests that Ms N had a sense of security 
and confidence about what S had put in place for her such that reasonable 
questioning from NatWest would probably not have led to her becoming 
credulous about the true purpose of the payment before it was too late.From NatWests standpoint, this was not a consumer that had been cold 
called or promised huge gains from unknown territory  but rather, Ms N was 
an investor with previous experience who had taken time to research and get 
in touch with someone that had come recommended. On the face of things, 
this was an authorised transaction to a genuine company, in keeping with Ms 
N having traded before.
All of this casts significant doubts on causation. Ultimately, I am not satisfied 
that  but for proportionate questioning from NatWest about this credit card 
transaction  the scam wouldve been stopped, and Ms Ns losses prevented 
from that point onwards.
Finally, Ive considered the subsequent payments Ms N made as part of the 
scam. These four debit card payments came at a time when Ms N had tried 
to withdraw what she thought was an available balance with Bull Option  
but was being told that she needed to pay further fees to allow that to 
happen. After discussing why these charges were needed, Ms N went ahead 
with the payments as instructed.
This reinforces my provisional findings that any appropriate questioning or 
warning from NatWest would not have stopped her loss. Because, despite 
being troubled about what she was being asked to pay, Ms N nonetheless 
still made the payments. In light of this and what Ive set out above, I am not 
convinced that due questioning from NatWest would have unearthed what 
was really happening  whether that intervention came at the point of the 
credit card payment or with these final debit card transactions.
In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Ms N being the victim of 
what was clearly a cruel scam. But in fairness, I cannot safely conclude that 
an intervention from NatWest wouldve made a material difference here. This 
is not, however, the same as dismissing Ms Ns statement  and I hope Ms 
N can appreciate that it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold 
this complaint if the evidence suggests otherwise.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not minded to uphold this complaint or make 
any award against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Responses to  my provisional decision
NatWest agrees with my provisional findings and has nothing further to add. 
Ms N does not accept my proposed decision. In summary, she argues that she has in fact 
never traded prior to these disputed payments. So, even though she had entertained the 
idea, this was the first time she had experienced investing or money had been exchanged. 
Ms N says that I have erred in fact by stating that it was her that reached out to S and 
initiated the relationship that led to her loss. Rather, shes submitted that she was contacted 
by multiple profile owners on social media who invited her to trade  including who she 
thought was S. Also, shes since found out that the individual (S) she opted to use was in 
fact a successful trader offering legitimate services. However, their social media account 
must have been hacked or imitiated by fraudsters, and pictures/posts were falsely used to 
impersonate them.   Overall, Ms N maintains that NatWest ought to have done more to help her with these lost 
payments. And had it interevened, she definitely wouldnt have gone ahead with sending the 
money. Instead, she wouldve stopped straight away and averted her loss. 
Now that both parties have responded and have no additional submissions, the case has 
been returned to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, for the sake of continuity, Ive continued to refer to the so-called broker Ms N was 
dealing with as S. 
I thank Ms N for her response to my provisional decision. But having reconsidered 
everything, my determination of the case remains unchanged. While I recognise Ms N feels 
strong about the matter, and its had a profound effect on her life, I am still of the view that it 
would be unreasonable to ask NatWest to return these disputed transactions. 
In terms of the points Ms N has raised about whether an intervention from the bank wouldve 
made a difference (i.e. causation), Im satisfied that Ive already adequately addressed this in 
my provisional findings. I still think that, on the balance of probabilities, NatWest stepping in 
would probably not have resulted in the scam being unearthed and the loss prevented. 
Nevertheless, for completeness, I will add that the fact that Ss social media account was 
impersonated only wouldve made things more difficult to unravel. Had Ms N been 
questioned on the credibility of this individual, a second look would be unlikely to reveal that 
who she thought she was talking to was in fact a fraudster. Indeed, Ms N has said herself 
that she was not necessarily experienced or overly proficient with the use of this social 
media platform  which is why this false profile was understandably not apparent to her. 
Moreover, I have to bear in mind that Ms N has given, with respect, a somewhat conflicting 
version of events. In previous submissions, she made it clear that she was the one to reach 
out to S via social media. However, following my provisional decision, she has since 
suggested that she only responded to contact by an individual claiming to be S. Whats 
more, although Ms N has said that she has never commissioned investment services before, 
her statements show that she paid just under £200 to iMarketsLive in August 2018. Online 
research tells me that this is the same trading company that she mentioned sampling before 
 in keeping with her initial statement that she had used investment services prior to this 
scam. 
In any event, I am faced with a statement from Ms N that has changed at times. And 
ultimately, the evidence supports that Ms N had some prior trading experience (even if it was 
just to experiment with the process) and that she had proactively researched S and their 
services. Which, as explained in my provisional findings, I find critical to her case. So, in 
conclusion, my judgment is still that an intervention from NatWest (at the point I would 
expect the bank to have stepped in) would not have made a material difference here. It 
follows that I dont require the bank to refund Ms Ns loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman