DRN-4424491
The complaint
Mr M complains that Blemain Finance Limited, trading as Together, has applied excessive 
fees and charges to his secured loan (second charge mortgage), and the loan balance has 
increased as a result. He also complains that his monthly payments have varied even 
though his loan should have been on a fixed interest rate from the outset, and that Together 
hasnt paid him the £100 it offered when he complained.
What happened
Mr M took out this secured loan in 2002 with Blemain, which now trades as Together. He 
borrowed £14,500, plus just over £2,000 for a protected payment plan, payable on a capital 
and interest repayment basis over a term of 20 years.
On 23 October 2020, Mr M complained to Together. Together acknowledged his complaint, 
but didnt send Mr M its full response until June 2022. It said his loan wasnt on track to be 
repaid by term end because some payments had been missed or made late, and additional 
interest and charges had been added as a result. It accepted it hadnt always been clear 
about the impact the charges would have on the interest applied to the loan, so it refunded a 
significant amount of interest, along with a charge of £150 which it said it had wrongly 
applied.
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said his monthly 
payments had changed over the years and Together had charged an excessive rate of 
interest. He had understood the interest rate on the loan would be fixed at 12%, and said 
that Together hadnt explained why the loan balance is now as high as it is  he thought he 
had brought the loan payments up-to-date after falling behind in 2003 and 2004.
Our Investigator found that Mr M had left it too late to complain about charges added to his 
loan, because none had been added since 2009. She said the Financial Ombudsman 
Service can only consider how Mr Ms loan operated in the six years leading up to his 
complaint. She went on to set out her findings about that.
The Investigator said that Mr Ms monthly loan payments had fluctuated because his loan 
was on a variable interest rate. The rate wasnt fixed. She also looked at the points Mr M 
raised about compensation he should have received, and found that Together had refunded 
him and sent him £100 compensation separately as agreed.
Mr M didnt accept that conclusion and wanted his complaint to be looked at again. He 
thought he still wasnt paying the right amount each month and provided more information 
about what had happened when the loan went into arrears.
I issued a decision setting out which parts of this complaint I can and cant look into. I found 
that no additional charges had been applied to Mr Ms loan between February 2009 and 
October 2020, when Mr M made this complaint. I said that, under the time limits I must 
apply, Mr M had complained too late about the charges applied before February 2009, so I 
cant look into them.
I said I can look into Mr Ms complaint about how his loan had operated since 23 October 
2014, because thats six years before he complained. Im now issuing this final decision to 
set out my conclusions about that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I explained in my earlier decision, I can only consider Mr Ms complaint from 
23 October 2014 onwards. That means I cant look into what Mr M has said about the 
missed payments in 2003 and 2004, or the direct debit problem in 2011  including any 
charges that arose as a result of those issues. 
Ive looked carefully at the transaction history for Mr Ms loan, and Im satisfied that no 
charges other than interest have been added to the loan during the period I can consider. Im 
also satisfied that the interest rate on this loan is variable and that it has been variable from 
the start, as set out in the loan agreement. This means that Together was entitled to vary the 
interest rate, as long as it did so in line with its contract with Mr M.
I cant make a finding here about whether the charges that were added to the loan between 
2002 and 2009 were applied fairly. But I can consider Mr Ms complaint about how the loan 
has operated since 23 October 2014.
Mr Ms loan balance increased over the years even though he was making regular 
payments, and the loan is still outstanding after Mr M expected it to have been fully repaid in 
2022. Additional charges and missed or late payments in the early years of the loan had a 
significant impact on the loan balance. This is because when charges were added to the 
balance they attracted extra interest. And when payments were missed or made late, the 
capital balance either wasnt paid off as expected at all or was paid off late  which resulted 
in a higher balance the following month and more interest being charged.
As a result, by 2022, Mr Ms loan balance had increased to more than £20,000. While Mr M 
had been making payments to the loan every month for a number of years, those payments 
were often not enough to cover the interest  and so the balance had gone up instead of 
down.
The loan balance barely decreased between October 2014 and early 2022, despite Mr Ms 
regular payments. However, I think Together tried to explain the situation to Mr M at various 
points. in 2019 and 2020, for example, its records show conversations with him about the 
level of his monthly payments against the interest charges and the increasing loan balance. 
It wasnt, however, until Together reviewed Mr Ms complaint in 2022 that it identified that it 
hadnt properly explained the implications of the charges and missed and late payments in 
the early years of the loan for the interest he was asked to pay overall, or that this meant the 
loan wasnt on track to be repaid by the end of the term.
As a result of this, Together refunded just under £16,000 to the loan on 19 March 2022. 
Thats reflected in the loan transaction history, which I understand Mr M has a copy of. 
Alongside earlier refunds (and I think its worth adding here that the £454.25 interest refund 
Mr M has queried is shown on the loan transaction history as a credit on 20 February 2019), 
this meant the loan balance reduced to around £4,000. 
Mr M says he has already more than paid for the loan and should owe nothing further. As 
Ive said above, any payments that were missed or late meant the capital loan balance didnt 
reduce as it should have done, and charges have also affected the balance. The refunds and reduced balance mean that Together is now charging Mr M significantly less interest 
each month, and so his monthly payments are reducing the loan balance. I note that a plan 
now appears to be in place for Mr M to continue with his payments so that the loan will be 
repaid in 2024. In all the circumstances, and given that the refunds Together has made 
relate largely to additional interest charged before 23 October 2014 and therefore during a 
period I cant consider, I find that I cant fairly require Together to do any more. 
Finally, Mr M has queried the £100 payment Together said it had sent him for the 
inconvenience caused by its delay in responding to his complaint. Our Investigator has now 
obtained details of the payment and relayed them to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that I dont require 
Together to do any more to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman