DRN-2263278
The complaint
Ms J complains that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) failed to credit her account 
after she deposited funds into it. She further complains that she was discriminated against 
and her account was closed, causing her overdraft to increase.
What happened
Ms J deposited money into her branch using a Cash Deposit Machine (CDM) and then paid 
further funds into her account using the teller services at the counter.
A few days later, Ms J received a text from the bank advising that her account was low in 
funds and she thought this must be wrong. Ms J approached the bank about this, and they 
told her their records only showed one deposit using the CDM. The bank investigated 
further, and CCTV was reviewed which showed Ms J depositing funds in the CDM and 
leaving the bank.
Ms J disagreed and claimed the bank had changed their records to support their story. Ms J 
had several conversations with branch staff and alleged that branch staff pushed her, were 
rude to her and discriminated against her. Branch staff allege that Ms J was abusive to them 
and photographed an employee she thought was responsible for the loss of her money.
NatWest decided to close Ms Js accounts, because the relationship between them had 
broken down. Ms J was told all her accounts within the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc banking 
group would be closed. One of the accounts was using an overdraft and remained open to 
allow for its repayment.
Ms J asked for a payment plan, but this was never followed up by the bank. NatWest told us 
that because the account was still within its overdraft limit, they were content for Ms J to 
repay it as she wanted. Ms J said her account was unusable after the bank cancelled her 
card and made a second complaint. NatWest refunded £54.23 interest as a goodwill gesture 
and told Ms J that she didnt need her card to make payments towards her overdraft.
Ms J refused to make any further payments and the debt accumulated. It was eventually 
defaulted, and NatWest employed a third-party company (referred to as B) to collect it.
Ms J was unhappy with how she was dealt with by NatWest and brought her complaint to 
our service for an independent review. An investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. Ms 
J disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed.
Ms J thought the loss of her funds was due to the hack of her phone which NatWest were 
covering up. 
The complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Missing deposit
Ms J claimed that NatWest staff had stolen her money and manipulated the CCTV and 
banking records to cover the theft. NatWest provided audit records for Ms Js two accounts 
and they show that one deposit was made on the day in question. The statements and debit 
card records confirm this, and Ive also examined the till records for that day. These show 
what the balance of each of the tills in the branch were at the end of business. If, as Ms J 
says, her money was deposited, I would expect a large difference between the records and 
the money left in the till. The tills didnt show any substantial difference between the records 
and the actual money left in them. 
Ms J and NatWests versions of events here differ greatly. Where thats the case and where 
evidence is contradictory or incomplete, then I have to consider whats more likely than not 
to have happened on the balance of probabilities. Here the evidence strongly suggests that 
its more likely than not that only one deposit was made.
Ms J alleges that she wasnt provided with a receipt or a mini statement and this was part of 
the theft. NatWest confirmed theyd stopped issuing mini-statements to save paper and 
that it was standard procedure to issue a receipt for any deposit. If Ms J had used the 
counter, it would have been standard practice for the bank to issue a receipt. They also 
confirmed that once deposits are entered onto their system, as Ms J states she observed, 
they cannot be amended. The records only showed one deposit to Ms Js account and I 
dont think its likely that the records were amended here. I say that because it would have 
taken a great deal of work for these records to have been changed or altered because of the 
nature of the systems involved. So, while Ive taken on board all that Ms J has said here, the 
evidence here doesnt make me think that Ms J used the counter services to deposit funds 
that day.
NatWest reviewed CCTV of Ms Js branch visit and said it didnt see her use the counter, 
only the CDM and then leave the branch. Ms J disputed this and alleged that the CCTV was 
edited, something that NatWest say is very difficult to do. The CCTV was reviewed by 
several different managers who confirmed what had happened. Since the complaint was 
made, the CCTV is no longer available.
Whilst Ive not been able to review the CCTV, the banks records confirm what was on the 
recording, which was reviewed on several occasions by different managers, who all agree 
the CCTV showed the same thing  that Ms J didnt use the counter. I find it unlikely that 
branch staff would act to manipulate the CCTV image, something which the bank said was 
very difficult to do. I think the review by separate managers is persuasive and their 
consistent review of what the images showed is more than likely what happened at the 
counter. Especially when viewed in the context of the other evidence of what is likely to have 
happened here.
Ms Js case is that branch staff deliberately changed the records, including the CCTV to hide 
the theft of her money. In her response to the investigators view, Ms J believed that the 
loss of the money may have been due to a cyberspace hacking process. 
I have carefully considered everything that Ms J has said about this  but when viewed 
impartially the evidence Ive seen here simply doesnt support that. Instead, I think its more 
likely than not that Ms J made only one deposit when she visited the branch and used the 
CDM to do it.Discrimination
NatWests records show that on several occasions, conversations with Ms J became difficult. 
Staff report that Ms J was abusive to them. Ms J denies this and alleges that she herself was 
treated poorly, including being pushed out of the branch on one occasion. Ms J felt strongly 
about how she was treated and said that she was discriminated against. 
Discrimination is a matter of law, set out in the Equality Act. Its for the courts to make 
findings on matters of law, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a finding about the 
Act. It is though, a matter for me to decide whether Ms J was treated fairly in all the 
circumstances.
NatWest have records referring to the behaviour of Ms J in branch, including a visit where 
she took a photograph of an employee she thought was responsible for the loss of her 
money. NatWest considered that Ms Js conduct was no longer something they could 
continue with. Ms J denies being abusive and Ive read her testimony about her experiences. 
Without a recording, its difficult to be sure what actually happened on the visits, but theres 
no evidence of the branch staff treating Ms J unfairly. I dont doubt that things became 
heated for both sides. But the branch were concerned at the way she behaved and when 
she took a photograph of an employee  this raised even more concerns about the situation. 
Several different people in the branch experienced this behaviour and I think it more likely 
than not that Ms Js behaviour caused the staff to be concerned, rather than branch staff 
treating her differently.
Ms J has alleged that she was pushed when leaving the branch, something that the branch 
manager denies. The branch manager wrote that Ms J was escorted from the building due to 
her behaviour but was never touched. If Ms J considers that she was pushed, this would be 
a matter for the police to investigate. 
Account closure
NatWest made a decision to close all of Ms Js accounts because they considered the 
relationship had broken down. Businesses, such as NatWest, can choose who they do 
business with, just as customers can choose who they bank with. And that extends to 
businesses deciding that they may not wish to continue offering banking services to a 
customer.
NatWests terms and conditions explain that one situation where they can close an account 
immediately under certain circumstances is if:
you behave in an offensive, threatening or violent manner, which includes any racist or 
other discriminatory conduct, towards our staff
NatWest wrote to Ms J about her conduct, after receiving reports from the branch staff about 
Ms Js visits. Thats in line with the terms of the account above. Im also satisfied that the 
closure notice was in line with the banks terms and conditions too. NatWest did accept that 
the messages to Ms J were a little confusing regarding the closure dates and they delayed 
the closure of the accounts to allow Ms J to make alternative arrangements, which I think 
was a reasonable way to deal with the confusion over the closure dates.
Outstanding overdraft
Ive thought about how NatWest handled the ongoing debt and whether they were they fair 
towards Ms J. NatWest never responded to Ms J about her offer to repay the overdraft on a 
payment plan and their reasoning was that because the debt was within the overdraft limit, 
they were happy to let Ms J pay what she wanted. Im not sure this was especially helpful to 
Ms J at the time. Ms J offered to set up a payment plan and she wouldnt have been aware 
of NatWests approach, in particular she wasnt told how long she had to repay it. 
In the case where theyve closed the accounts and left this one open to just repay the debt, I 
think it would have been more helpful to have engaged with Ms J at the time she offered a payment plan to set out their expectations. If, as NatWest have said, it was within the 
overdraft limits  then Ms J could have, in theory, just paid the minimum to cover the interest 
and a small amount to reduce the overdraft which I would think wouldnt be what NatWest 
intended. Having said that, Ms J was adamant that she wouldnt pay anything to NatWest, so 
I cant see that any arrangement wouldve actually worked here.
NatWest gave Ms J options to discuss debt repayment and left the repayment open to her, 
they also refunded some accrued interest. NatWest explained how Ms J could pay money 
towards her overdraft without the use of her bank card, which had been cancelled. Because 
Ms J refused to repay her overdraft, I dont think anything NatWest did would have had an 
impact on the situation. My understanding is that B are now managing the debt and NatWest 
have said that Ms J can discuss a repayment plan with B. NatWest are entitled to collect the 
debt that accrued from the overdraft and are using B to do that which I think is a fair and 
reasonable way to collect the outstanding money that Ms J owes NatWest.
Ms J made further comments about being harassed by B, if she wishes to pursue that 
complaint, she can make a complaint to B. If she remains unhappy with how theyve handled 
her complaint, Ms J can bring it to our service for a review.
In summary, Im satisfied that only one deposit was made at the branch and theres no 
evidence that Ms J was treated any differently to other customers. Im satisfied that NatWest 
followed their terms and conditions when they closed the account and how they dealt with 
the outstanding overdraft. As Ive mentioned, they could have engaged with Ms J better 
when trying to arrange repayments for it, but ultimately Ms J made it clear she wouldnt 
repay it  so I dont think NatWests lack of engagement had an impact on the situation. 
Given this, I think NatWest acted fairly and reasonably when they dealt with Ms J. So, taking 
everything into consideration, I wont be telling NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 03 November 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman