The complaint
Mr B says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. Mr B says MYJAR didnt undertake 
affordability checks to make sure he could afford the lending. Mr B got into a cycle of debt. 
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr B between January 
2017 and December 2018. Mr Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 04.01.2017 31.03.2017 3    £100.00
2 08.04.2017 29.09.2017 6    £300.00
3 08.10.2017 28.09.2018 12    £600.00
4 09.12.2018 Outstanding 24 £1,275.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought loan four shouldnt have been 
given as Mr Bs borrowing pattern suggested he was becoming persistently reliant on this 
type of lending. 
MYJAR agreed with the adjudicator. It offered to remove the interest and charges on loan 
four but because there was an outstanding debt on the loan it would offset any 
compensation against that. This would leave Mr B still owing £500.68 and MYJAR offered to 
set up a repayment plan. 
We put the offer to Mr B, but he wasnt willing to accept it and asked for a decision by an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
DRN-1596740MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr B didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr B had with MYJAR. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Our adjudicator didnt think loan four should have been given as the lending looked 
unsustainable. In response MYJAR offered to settle in line with the adjudicators assessment 
so again, there isnt any ongoing dispute about loan four. But for clarity, I agree with the 
adjudicators assessment that loan four shouldnt have been given. 
So, this only leaves me to decide whether the offer made by MYJAR is fair. Mr B hasnt told 
us why he has rejected the offer, so it might be useful for him if I explain how we look into 
these types of cases. When a business has made an error  either because it accepts one has been made or we 
decide something has gone wrong  the starting point, for this service, it that a consumer 
should be back into the position they would have been had had an error not been made. 
However, this is not always possible, especially in cases that involve lending money.
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as this  for loan four  this service has to 
acknowledge that the consumer has received a sum of money and had the benefit of it. That 
is why in such cases we ask the lender to refund any extra that has been repaid by a 
consider, so for example, interest and charges. We also direct any additional interest 
payment to the consumer to reflect the loss of use of those funds. This has the effect of 
providing the consumer with an interest free loan. 
Mr B has had use of the funds and I dont think it would be fair in this case, to ask MYJAR to 
write off this balance. Mr B, as Ive said, has used these funds and I think MYJAR is entitled 
to recover what was lent  which is what it is proposing to do. 
MYJAR has already made an offer in line with what this service would expect. So, I wont be 
asking it to do anything more. It is now for Mr B to decide whether to accept the offer. 
I would add that MYJAR and Mr B ought to try and work together to repay the capital amount 
outstanding, but Id remind MYJAR of its obligation to treat Mr B fairly when doing so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. MYJAR Limited has 
already offered to settle the complaint and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman