DRN-2578081
The complaint
Mr Y, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains about investment 
advice received from Lloyds Bank PLC.
 
What happened
Mr Y has received investment advice from Lloyds on several occasions over the years, but 
this complaint is concerned specifically with advice received in 2003. At that time, he was 
advised to invest a total of £70,000  £20,000 in a Guaranteed Investment Bond and the 
balance across an OEIC and ISA, invested in the Scottish Widows Cautious Portfolio. 
At the time of the advice Mr Y was 61, divorced with no dependants, retired and in receipt of 
a pension. His annual income was £12,000 and he also received other income from 
benefits/investments of £1,500 per year. He had cash savings of just under £145,000 and 
investments of around £44,500. He was mortgage free and had no other liabilities.
Mr Ys CMC felt that the Cautious Portfolio, despite its name, carried too much risk for Mr Y 
as the bonds in which it primarily invested were not investment grade. 
Our investigator didnt agree. She didnt think that the risk profile the CMC had suggested for 
the Portfolio was accurate, as she felt it was relying too much upon recent fund factsheets 
that were unlikely to reflect the profile of the Portfolio in 2003. 
She was satisfied that the Portfolio was lower risk and that Mr Y had the capacity for that 
level of risk. Overall, she felt that although Mr Y was a relatively inexperienced investor, the 
advice he received in 2003, including the investment in the Guaranteed Investment Bond, 
appeared to have been broadly suitable. 
Mr Ys CMC didnt accept the investigators view. It acknowledged her comments about the 
risk profile of the Portfolio but remained of the view that investment in it had been unsuitable 
for Mr Y. It stressed that it was an income fund, and Mr Y had been seeking growth, and that 
it was a relatively new fund in 2003 with little track record.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Mr Y appears to have been in a position in which he was able to invest the amounts 
committed to the Bond and Portfolio. While he was relatively inexperienced as an investor, 
he had received advice before, and I think its likely that he would have understood the level 
of risk involved with the Portfolio and it wouldve been consistent with his attitude to risk. 
I note the CMCs concerns about the Portfolio being income producing, as Mr Y sought 
capital growth. But as the investigator said, this wouldnt necessarily prevent it from being 
recommended for a capital growth objective if the adviser felt it was otherwise suitable. The 
income could be reinvested. 
And although the Portfolio did have a limited track record, again, I dont think that issue in 
isolation would be reason to making a finding that the advice was unsuitable.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman