DRN-1193305
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2000 alongside a credit card. Mr B says that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) 
mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think RBS made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out. I note that this was a postal application with no apparent involvement 
from a representative. Ive seen a copy of the application form and theres nothing on 
this form to indicate Mr B would have had to take PPI to get the credit card. Instead it 
gave Mr B a choice. Mr B ticked specifically to take PPI and signed the form.
 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. 
 
Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
 When the policy was sold, RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because RBS 
didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what hes said about his existing 
repayment means at the time of the sale.  But these points dont change my decision. Mr B 
has told us that he would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay from his employer if he was off work sick.  However, the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his and for a longer period of time. I also note what Mr B says about his savings, 
but savings cant be guaranteed over a period of time. And even taking the savings into 
account, I think the PPI would still have provided a useful benefit as Mr B could have used 
his savings towards other living expenses when his sick pay reduced to half while the PPI 
covered his monthly repayments. The PPI would also have paid out if Mr B lost his job.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman