DRN-3043997
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the transfer of her cash ISA from a third-party business, referred to
as the transferor, to a Stocks and Shares ISA with Halifax Share Dealing Limited, referred
to as HSDL or the transferee.
Mrs H is unhappy that her husbands (Mr Hs) transfer request, made at the same time, was
completed on time but hers wasnt, and consequently shes lost out financially.
What happened
In late-August 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms a part of my final decision:  
provisionally Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs H says, Im not persuaded
that HSDL behaved unreasonably in the circumstances.
I should also make clear that in this case Im only considering the actions of HSDL and not
the transferor, because this complaint only concerns the actions of HSDL.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to note Mrs Hs strength of feeling
about this matter. Shes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mrs H and HSDL, and reach what I think is an independent, fair
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice.
But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than
not to have happened.
In this instance, on balance I cant safely say that HSDL behaved unreasonably by not
contacting the transferor via electronic channels sooner as suggested by the investigator.
Notwithstanding what the investigator says about industry guidance (regarding the most
appropriate means of communication), I dont think HSDL was under any obligation to send
the information electronically from the outset or sooner.
In other words, there was nothing wrong with it sending the initial acceptance letter and the
subsequent chaser letters, within good time, via post. Its common industry practice to
communicate in this way and theres nothing to say that it was inappropriate or wrong. Im
mindful that the process worked very efficiently for Mr H.
I should also mention that Ive seen nothing to suggest that HSDL was made aware, from
the outset, that the electronic method of acceptance was an acceptable method of
acceptance to the transferor, despite it doing so in due course after discussions with HSDL.
On balance this would suggest that this method wasnt standard practice for either party.
In other words, I note it was only after HSDL got in touch with the transferor on 17 June 2020
that the transferor confirmed that it would accept an electronic acceptance. I note in
response HSDL sent the relevant documents via email as well as recorded delivery.
I dont think HSDL was required to send any documentation via recorded delivery as its not
a common industry practice. But in this instance, I think it did so to ensure that the
documents were received, in the same way that it emailed the documents after speaking to
the transferor.
Im mindful of the other comments, but in the circumstances Im unable to safely conclude
that the initial acceptance letter and subsequent chasers werent sent or were sent to an
incorrect address. On a balance of probabilities, I think its more likely (than not) that these
documents were sent to the correct address but were either not received or were processed
incorrectly.
Its possible that there was an issue with the post, but if that was the case it wasnt HSDLs
doing. I cant hold HSDL responsible for the actions of a third-party postal service. In other
words, I cant hold it responsible for issues that are beyond its control.
For the reasons set out, Im unable to blame HSDL for Mrs H request not being received by
the transferor, even though Mr Hs acceptance was received and processed. In other words,
Mr Hs request being processed successfully, isnt of itself evidence of any wrong doing in
respect of Mrs Hs request. On the contrary, it suggests that the process was working.
I appreciate that Mrs H will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the
face of the available evidence, and on balance, provisionally Im unable to uphold this
complaint and give her what she wants. 
HSDL responded and said that it had nothing further to add. 
Mrs Hs husband, Mr H, responded and said that he was very disappointed that I didnt 
uphold the complaint. In short, he said Im siding with the industry players and that the time 
and effort spent on this complaint has been a waste. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new material submissions, my decision not to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, as set out in my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons. 
In other words, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs H says, Im still not 
persuaded that HSDL behaved unreasonably in the circumstances.
Im sorry that Mr H feels that it has been a waste of time. But on the
face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give 
Mrs H what she wants.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman