DRN-4415074
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) incorrectly changed his 
registered address on his accounts.
Mr M says he become aware of this in October 2022, but it took Barclays until January 2023 
to rectify the matter.
What happened
Mr M says that he applied for £5,000 interest free credit from a high street store, but this was 
declined. Mr M says that this was caused by Barclays incorrectly changing his address.
Mr M says that his credit card statements were sent to the incorrect address, which put his 
credit card account at risk.
Mr M also says that this matter led to him having to delay re-mortgaging his property leading 
to him obtaining a higher interest rate than what he couldve achieved had the address been 
changed when he first flagged it with Barclays. Mr M also says that he missed out on buying 
two buy-to-let investment properties, due to the incorrect address issue.
Barclays upheld Mr Ms complaint and paid him £470 compensation. This award was to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by Barclays incorrectly changing the address 
it had registered for Mr M.
One of our investigators assessed the complaint and they concluded that Mr Ms credit card 
account had been impacted by letters being sent to the wrong address. But they were 
unable to say that Mr Ms financing had been impacted by Barclays error. They did however 
agree that Mr Ms credit file was still showing that Mr M was linked to the incorrect address, 
and so asked Barclays to remove this information. They also said that Barclays should pay a 
further £100 compensation, for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M by Barclays 
error.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators assessment. In addition to missing out on a lower rate 
of interest on his mortgage and missing out on the investment properties, Mr M says the 
matter has caused him a significant amount of stress resulting in him paying for counselling 
sessions.
As Mr M disagreed with the investigators assessment, the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, for 
broadly the same reasons. Although I think it may help to explain that where evidence is 
incomplete and matters are in dispute, as is the case here, I need to decide matters on a 
balance of probabilities, based on everything that is available.
Credit card account
I note that Mr M was, understandably, concerned when he discovered that letters about his 
credit card account - which had a sizeable credit limit - were sent to an incorrect address in 
late 2022. However, although I understand why Mr M was concerned about this, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest (fortunately) that Mr M suffered any loss because of this. For 
example, theres nothing to suggest that Mr Ms card details were used to make fraudulent 
transactions. 
So, while I can appreciate Mr Ms worry and concern here, there isnt an impact on Mr M that 
I can fairly ask Barclays to compensate him for  beyond what its already offered.
Declined 0% interest credit and subsequent delay in refinancing
Mr M says that he applied for £5,000 of interest free credit at a store, but says the 
application was declined. Mr M says that, as he has a perfect credit score, the only reason 
why this was declined mustve been due to Barclays recording him living at a different 
address on his credit file. I understand it was this belief that led Mr M to delay refinancing his 
mortgage a while later and is why Mr M has been so distressed by this matter.
Having considered this point, firstly, I cant locate a declined application for credit in Mr Ms 
credit file that correlates with this application. So from the outset, I hope Mr M can 
understand why its very difficult for me to reach the same conclusion that he has, with the 
evidence that has been provided.
But, even if this did occur (but was reported to a different credit reference agency than the 
one he has obtained his credit report from), as Mr M has said, it is very difficult to determine 
why exactly a business has declined an application for credit. And it is the case that, 
although Mr M blames Barclays error for this, there may well be other reasons why it was 
declined. 
For example, it mayve been declined because incorrect information mayve been entered 
during the credit application. Alternatively, I can see that Mr M has products registered to an 
address in a different region of the UK (compared to his current address). There was also a 
gap in the address recorded for Mr M under the electoral register. He was registered at one 
address between October 2011 to December 2018. But, from what I have seen, he wasnt 
registered at any address on the electoral register until June 2022  which I note predates 
the events that he has complained about by only a few months. So again, I cant rule out the 
possibility that either of these points, or indeed other factors, mayve played a role in his 
application for credit being declined. 
So from what I have seen, there is a lack of evidence of the declined credit application that 
prompted Mr M to worry about whether he could get further credit. And, even if that did 
happen, there is insufficient evidence to say it was declined because Barclays had the 
incorrect address registered for Mr M since October 2022. Indeed, the application for credit 
may well have been declined due to an unrelated matter, resulting in Mr M assuming his 
ability to obtain further credit could be affected by Barclays error, when it might not have 
been.
As such, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Barclays should be held responsible for 
the consequences of Mr M choosing to delay refinancing the mortgage on his primary 
residency or deciding not to invest in the buy-to-let properties. This means that I cant 
reasonably say that Barclays should reimburse Mr Ms increased borrowing costs. This also 
means I cant reasonably say that Barclays can be held responsible for the impact the 
declined credit application (and the ensuing consequences) had on his mental health - which 
I understand had resulted in him receiving counselling. 
Removal of the incorrect information
Having said the above, it took a fair amount of effort from Mr M to get Barclays to correct the 
address it had recorded for him. I can see that Barclays was still linking Mr M to the incorrect address in his credit file, even after it had corrected his address and the investigator had 
instructed Barclays to remove this information as well.
Since the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision, the investigator contacted 
Barclays and asked (again) that it remove the incorrect address i.e. from the linked 
addresses part of Mr Ms credit file. Barclays has confirmed that it has contacted the credit 
reference agencies to remove that address, and this should now be reflected in Mr Ms credit 
file.
In the circumstances, I appreciate that this added delay will have been greatly frustrating for 
Mr M. So I think what the investigator recommended is reasonable  that being Barclays 
should pay Mr M a further £100 compensation, so as to bring the total amount of 
compensation to be paid to £570. I think the additional £100 here reflects the added impact 
this matter has had on Mr M  which occurred at a time when Mr M was clearly already 
experiencing a great deal of distress and concern. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I require Barclays to:
Pay Mr M an extra £100 compensation, for the distress and inconvenienced caused 
to Mr M by this matter.
Barclays has confirmed that it has removed the incorrect address from the linked addresses 
section of Mr Ms credit file. But if, for whatever reason, Mr M is still being linked to the 
incorrect address in his credit file, I direct Barclays to remove this information from Mr Ms 
credit file again. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to do what I have outlined above, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman