DRN-3949253
The complaint
Miss G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to carry out two transactions.
What happened
Miss G says a Standing Order (SO) and a payment out of her account didnt reach their 
destination account in October 2022. She says she spent a significant amount of time trying 
to speak to Barclays about the payments via telephone and online chat. Miss G says 
Barclays staff were rude and she asked for a transcript of the chat messages, as they were 
part deleted. She would like an apology and a full copy of the messages. She also says her 
family members suffered a financial loss due to the payment issue and would like £500 
compensation.
Barclays says it had technical problems processing SOs and scheduled payments at the 
end of October 2022. It has apologised to Miss G and paid £50 compensation. Barclays says 
Miss G can make a Subject Access Request for the chat transcripts and says it told her on 1 
November 2022 what had happened. It says it also told Miss G that the money had been 
returned to her account on 2 November 2022.
Miss G brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Barclays had fairly apologised for what took place and paid appropriate 
compensation. The investigator thought Barclays had experienced technical problems and 
we couldnt consider any loss to family members.
Miss G doesnt accept that view and in summary says the payment issues cant simply be 
explained by technical errors. She says Barclays sent her its response by secure message 
not by letter and the requests for the chat transcripts has been ignored. Miss G says they 
have been altered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall decision that Barclays has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by apologising and by paying an appropriate compensation amount. I appreciate 
Miss G will be disappointed by my decision. I also appreciate Miss G will have unanswered 
questions about what exactly caused Barclays technical issues in October 2022, but we are 
not Barclays regulator and so its not our role to investigate those issues or punish it for 
them. 
I make clear to Miss G that I can only consider her complaint about the events of October 
2022 regarding the payments. I cant consider her complaint about the message transcripts 
and if they have been altered as Barclays hasnt had an opportunity to investigate such 
matters. Miss G will need to make a separate complaint to Barclays, and I can see it has told 
Miss G that she will need to make a specific request for the transcript. I cant see that either 
party has provided any such transcripts in any event.
There is no dispute here that Miss Gs two scheduled payments did not reach their intended 
destination. I have no doubt Miss G was caused concern about the payments and was 
caused inconvenience in contacting Barclays as well as making alternative provisions for the 
payments. But Im satisfied that Barclays fairly apologised for what took place and has 
explained that it suffered technical problems that prevented scheduled payments such as 
SOs being made. I can also see that Barclays told its customers about the problems on 1 
November 2022 and I think re-assured its customers by telling them when the money had 
been returned to their accounts on the following day. So, Im satisfied Barclays did what it 
could in those circumstances and think that on occasions payment issues can arise which 
clearly cant be what Barclays intended.
I have not seen any evidence Miss G suffered any financial loss as a result of what took 
place, and I cant fairly order compensation for such loss without such evidence. We would 
normally only consider the impact on a consumer and not as in this case on any family 
members in any event. Im satisfied that Barclays told its customers shortly after the issue 
what the problem was and that it apologised to Miss G within some days of her making her 
complaint. I dont consider the issue about the method of sending the final response letter to 
be particularly significant, as the important point is that it was sent and was available.
For those reasons Im satisfied that Barclays compensation offer of £50 is fair and 
reasonable and I cant fairly order it to pay £500 as Miss G suggests.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman