DRN-4465535
The complaint
Mr G complains that True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM) gave him unsuitable 
advice to switch his personal pensions to a new personal pension.
What happened
Mr G had personal pensions with two providers, having received financial advice in March 
2018 from an IFA I will refer to as X. 
In 2021 X moved to become an adviser with TPWM. X met with Mr G in May and June of 
2021. And following those meetings Mr G switched his pension plans to TPWM.
Mr G became unhappy with the performance of his pension and complained to TPWM. 
TPWM told Mr G that his pension had been switched on a non-advised basis, after it had 
sent him a Direct Marketing Offer (DMO).
Mr G was unhappy and asked our service to help. Our investigator looked into this case and 
was unable to resolve the matter, so this case was referred for an ombudsmans decision. I 
looked into what happened and issued a provisional decision explaining to both sides why I 
thought Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. And I explained how I thought it could be put 
right.
TPWM responded to accept my provisional finding. And Mr G responded to accepted what 
Id said and provided further evidence that he thought made his case stronger.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither TPWM nor Mr G have provided further arguments about the outcome I proposed in 
my provisional decision. And having consider everything in this case a final time, my final 
decision is the same as indicated in my provisional decision. And for the same reasons 
which I set out again below.
The crux of Mr Gs complaint is that the switch to a pension with TPWM and the subsequent 
investments werent suitable for him. It is clear, from his testimony, that Mr G considers his 
decision to switch his personal pensions was made following advice from X.
TPWM explains that, after X had informed Mr G that he was moving to work for TPWM it 
sent Mr G a Direct Marketing Offer (DMO). And it says that Mr G responded to that offer and 
decided to make the switch of his pension without any opinion being offered by X or TPWM.
Did TPWM provide Mr G with regulated advice to switch pensions?
There is a fundamental difference in interpretation of what took place that led Mr G to switch 
his pensions. So I will start by determining whether or not I think that TPWM provided Mr G 
with, what amounted to, a personal recommendation to switch. Where evidence is 
incomplete I must make a determination of what happened on a balance of probabilities  
that is what I think, more likely than not, happened. 
And then, having decided what happened I will make my decision on a fair and reasonable 
outcome, considering the relevant rules, legislation and industry best practice at the time. Of 
particular relevance in this case are the following rules and guidance in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook:
COBS 2.1.1  which sets out how a firm must act honestly, fairly, and professionally 
in accordance with a clients best interests.
COBS 9  which refers to the suitability of advice. It refers to personal 
recommendations which it defines as, a recommendation that is ... advice on 
conversion or transfer of pension benefits  and is presented as suitable for the 
person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of the circumstances of 
that person
PERG 8.28  which gives guidance to help determine the difference between 
providing information and providing advice. PERG 8.28.2G(3) says, regulated advice 
includes any communication with the customer which, in the context in which it was 
given, goes beyond the mere provision of information and is objectively likely to 
influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or sell. And (4) explained, 
Key to the giving of advice is that information: (a) is either accompanied by comment 
or value judgement on the relevance of that information to the customers investment 
decisions: or (b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value 
judgement so that the information will tend to influence that decision.
According to TPWM X started working for it in May 2021. And it appears that X met with 
Mr G on 10 May 2021 and then again on 14 June 2021. The second meeting that X had with 
Mr G was therefore whilst he was a representative of TPWM. 
There are no contemporaneous notes from those meetings. But X has provided his 
recollection of what took place. In the first meeting, prior to working for TPWM X explained to 
Mr G that he would be leaving to go to TPWM. I wont go into the likely content of that 
meeting in much further detail as TPWM werent responsible for any action or activity of X at 
that point. X however explains that in the second meeting he met Mr G at his home to 
confirm that he had now moved over.
Mr G considers that he was receiving advice in these meetings and Ive thought about what 
may have made him think that. Ive considered the relationship that Mr G had with X. Mr G 
knew X in his capacity as his financial adviser. He had received advice from X previously 
and, as recently as 2018, hed received pension advice from X. There is no indication that 
these were merely social calls. And the visit in June wasnt to provide Mr G with the 
information that X was working for TPWM. As Mr G already knew that from the meeting in 
May.
Mr G has explained that he recalled X explaining that he would be better served to move his 
pensions to TPWM when he moved. I understand that X hasnt said that was the purpose of 
these meetings. But I find Mr Gs testimony to be persuasive. He knew X as his adviser. And 
X went to the trouble of meeting with Mr G twice in quick succession. X explains that Mr G 
asks a lot of questions, so I think its more likely than not that Mr G would have wanted to 
know what X recommended he do. And I think that its likely that X would have responded in 
some way. Most likely along the lines that Mr G suggests.
Ive also considered whether or not Mr G was likely influenced by these meetings in making his switch to TPWM. X had previously recommended that Mr G set up the personal pensions 
that he already had. So X presumably considered that they were perfectly suitable for Mr G 
when he made those recommendations. Mr G had accepted those recommendations and 
explains that he was quite happy with them. So I dont think that Mr G was proactively 
looking to dispense with the pensions that hed been recommended in 2018. In a process 
whereby hed paid for advice. Which again adds weight to my belief that the meeting in June 
went further than just making Mr G aware that TPWM also offered personal pensions. And 
was instrumental in the decision Mr G went on to make regarding this pension switch. 
Mr G has shared some correspondence he had with X via text message on Friday 18 June 
2021. This is the date that TPWM say Mr G set up his account following the DMO. Mr G 
explains that he was struggling with setting it up. And this would seem to be corroborated by 
the messages that Mr G had been sending to TPWMs help chat. But, in a message with X 
Mr G apparently queried about how any pension should be invested. And X replied Hi 
[Mr G] just with clients but cautious is good regards [X]. 
This evidence leads me to believe that Mr G was in contact with X whilst processing the 
response to the DMO. Which I dont think would have been the case if Mr G was truly acting 
independently. But moreover, I think the context of this message, is that Mr G didnt really 
know how his pension should be invested. He had no specialist knowledge and had 
previously followed advice from X about his existing pensions. And, based on what Ive 
highlighted in bold above, it appears more likely than not that X gave Mr G specific advice to 
choose a cautious investment profile. And TPWM show that Mr G then went on to select a 
cautious investment profile for the personal pension.
Looking back now at the rules and guidance regarding advice that Ive referenced above. 
Mr G says that he was persuaded to switch his pension to TPWM following his meetings with 
X. And, as Ive said, I find that plausible. I cant really see why X would have visited Mr G a 
second time if he was just providing information. Or why TPWM didnt simply write to Mr G. 
The personal contact from a person with a long standing IFA relationship with Mr G makes it 
far more likely that some form of recommendation was given in that meeting.
Ive considered the relevance of PERG 8.28 here. The DMO may well be information in 
some cases. But, in the context in which it was given in this case, went beyond the provision 
of mere information. I say that because of the groundwork that went into preparing Mr G for 
the receipt of the DMO. X, who Mr G had always known as his IFA, went to lengths to visit 
him more than once and arranged for the DMO. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, 
continued to provide Mr G with support and guidance through the DMO process. Including 
by text message appearing to be advising Mr G on his investment selection within the new 
pension.
Id like to reassure TPWM that I have considered the content of its DMO. And I can see that 
it is intended as an offer without advice. And, if the only contact that Mr G had was in the 
form of that, or another form of direct marketing, then I may agree that it didnt amount to the 
provision of regulated advice. But, for the reasons Ive explained, that wasnt the case here. 
The active intervention from X meant that Mr G, more likely than not, believed he was acting 
on the advice of an IFA. Putting it another way, Mr G had pensions that he was satisfied 
with, having paid for full financial advice to set those up. He wasnt seeking new pension 
arrangements, and Im not persuaded that he would have responded to TPWMs direct 
marketing offer if that was all he had received. He had far too many questions and seems 
unlikely to have decided to make such a big decision without advice.
TPWM have explained that it didnt carry out a fact find or provide Mr G with a written 
suitability report. And Mr G agrees with this. But that doesnt mean that advice wasnt 
provided. That would merely have a bearing in whether advice was provided in a way that complied with rules under COBS 9. Whether or not advice was provided depends on the 
definitions that I referred to above. And for the purposes of COBS 9, and considering PERG 
8.28, Ive decided that what TPWM did amounted to providing Mr G with regulated advice 
that I can consider here. 
Did TPWM treat Mr G fairly?
COBS 9 placed a number of obligations on TPWM which it has identified werent completed. 
For instance theres no recorded fact-find completed with Mr G by TPWM. Although X was 
arguably already in possession of a good understanding of Mr Gs circumstances as his 
existing financial adviser. And there is no written record of the recommendation.
In the absence of that I have to consider what Mr G understood of the advice. And I think 
that the fact that he went on to make a switch, that he had no obvious reason to, means that 
the context of Mr Gs meetings with X persuaded him that it was in his best interests. Were 
that not the case, as Ive already said, I dont think that Mr G would have considered making 
this switch.
TPWM have provided no opinion on whether or not this pension switch was in Mr Gs best 
interests or not. But I think that its clear that, because of TPWMs understanding of the way 
this switch came about, TPWM didnt go to sufficient lengths to understand Mr Gs 
circumstances to be able to consider the suitability of this switch. And didnt properly give 
him full and considered advice in a format he could carefully consider prior to making this 
decision. 
This meant that Mr G ended up switching from personal pension arrangements, where 
suitability had been fully considered and advised upon, to a personal pension where little to 
no support had been given regarding the suitability of the pension wrapper or investment 
choice. This wasnt fair to Mr G. And didnt comply with TPWMs obligation under COBS 
2.1.1R or rules within COBS 9, referred to above. 
Ive considered what the likely consequences of this were. 
Mr G had two pensions prior to the switches in 2021. One of those, pension A, had a fund 
value around £190,000 when it switched to the TPWM pension. At the time of transfer it had 
a platform fee of 0.3% of the fund value. And approximate fund charges of 0.62%. So overall 
fees around 0.92%. The second pension, pension B, had a fund value around £263,000 
when it switched. It had a product charge of 0.35% for funds valued over £250,000. And an 
investment charge of 0.79%. So overall fees of 1.14%.
In contrast, the TPWM product had a platform fee of 0.4%. And the True Potential Cautious 
Portfolio fund sheet that weve been provided indicates an ongoing charge of 0.81%. Giving 
an overall fee around 1.21%. So the pension with TPWM that Mr G switched to was a more 
expensive product. I accept that the differences were small percentages. But the fund values 
were relatively large. It meant that the pension with TPWM had to outperform the ceding 
schemes just to give the same returns.
There was additionally an ongoing advice charge to consider. That ongoing advice charge 
for TPWM was 0.5%. And I have looked at what was being charged by his previous adviser 
and Ive seen various annual advice fees from 0.5% to 0.9%. But the most recent was 
following an isolated piece of advice in May 2020 when an ongoing fee for 0.5% was agreed 
to. So I think that its more likely than not that the ongoing advice fee being applied was the 
same. 
This means that advice to switch these pensions placed Mr G in a more expensive product. So was not obviously in his best interests from that perspective.
There is also the question of whether the TPWM pension switch was suitable from an 
investment perspective. I understand that TPWM says it didnt assess Mr Gs attitude to risk 
prior to the switch. But I think that X guided Mr G in his choice of portfolio. Which ended in 
Mr G being invested in line with a cautious attitude to risk.
In the absence of any documented assessment of Mr Gs attitude to risk at the point of that 
switch Ive considered, on a balance of probability, whether or not that was suitable. 
I have seen the assessments made of Mr Gs attitude to risk when the ceding pensions were 
put in place in 2018. At the point of that advice he had been assessed as having a moderate 
attitude to risk. Which placed him between 5 and 6 on a scale of 1 to 10. So above the level 
that I would consider as being a cautious risk investor.
There were also several points of advice after that where I can see that his attitude to risk 
was again checked. The subsequent method had altered, but produced a broadly similar 
result. In 2018 he was being assessed as having a moderate attitude to risk (which at that 
stage was position 4 on a scale of 1 to 6). And it appeared to stay consistent as I have seen 
a similar assessment done as late as October 2019 when it returned the same result. 
Throughout that period I think that, on balance, Mr G had a moderate or balanced attitude to 
risk. He was already in the decumulation period, having placed these pensions into flexi- 
access drawdown already. And his attitude to risk had remained consistent. I have looked at 
the way these pensions were invested and they were invested in line with a balanced 
attitude to risk. 
I understand that consumers attitudes to investment risk can alter over time. But I would 
need to have evidence that might suggest that Mr Gs attitude to risk had dropped for some 
reason. And there is no evidence of that. So I think that its more likely than not, that Mr G 
ended up in an investment portfolio that didnt properly match his appetite for investment 
risk. 
Part of the service that Mr G signed up to with TPWM included an ongoing advice charge 
each year. This meant that TPWM were charging Mr G an annual charge to provide him with 
a service. Which involved reviewing his investment suitability based on the responses to an 
online questionnaire. 
TPWM have explained that it sent an online questionnaire to Mr G around 12 months after 
he switched his pensions to its product. And says that he didnt respond. So no review was 
carried out. This meant that no proper assessment of the suitability of this pension or the 
investment strategy was carried out at the beginning of the policy. And even though TPWM 
charged Mr G for ongoing advice, no review of the suitability was carried out for over 12 
months. 
Overall, I dont think that the way Mr G was treated was fair or reasonable. He was given, 
what amounted to a recommendation at the beginning. But it wasnt properly considered. It 
meant that he ended up in a more expensive product in a less suitable investment portfolio. I 
cant see that it offered him with any other benefits over those he already had that would 
have made the transfer in his best interests. It means that I dont think that there was any 
persuasive reason for Mr G to have been advised to switch pensions. But for the actions of 
TPWM in this case, I think Mr G would have remained with the pensions that were set in 
place in 2018.Putting things right
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr G would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr G's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must TPWM do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, TPWM must:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
TPWM should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, TPWM should pay into Mr G's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If TPWM is unable to pay the compensation into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr G £300 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced in the switch 
process, whereby he felt he was advised to switch and then left unsupported. And in 
the way he has been left unsure whether or not this switch has left him financially 
worse off but for the advice.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TPWM deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much has been taken off. TPWM should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interestTrue 
Potential 
Personal 
PensionStill exists 
and liquidNotional value 
from previous 
providersDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr G's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. TPWM should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the True Potential Personal Pension should be added to the 
notional value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the True Potential Personal Pension should be deducted from the 
notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return 
in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if TPWM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, TPWM will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr G's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the 
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional 
value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct True Potential Wealth Management LLP to compensate 
Mr G in the manner I have set out in putting things right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman