The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank plc's information on charges for receipt of foreign 
payments is misleading.
What happened
Mr M made several payments from an overseas bank account to his Lloyds account. But the 
amounts paid to his Lloyds account following currency conversion weren't as much as he'd 
expected. Mr M discovered this was because of the exchange rate used by the bank.
Mr M said information on Lloyds' website about charges for receipt of foreign payments was 
misleading. He said the relevant details applied to sending overseas payments, rather than 
receiving them. So it wasn't immediately obvious what exchange rate Lloyds uses for 
converting overseas payments.
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didn't think there was 
anything on the Lloyds website to suggest the bank would use the exchange rate expected 
by Mr M. So he wasn't persuaded the bank needed to make any refund to Mr M.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has explained in some detail why he considers the information on Lloyds' website is 
misleading. And I can see there has been some debate between him and the investigator 
about what the wording on the website means.
Mr M provided a copy of the screen shots from the Lloyds website. I've had a look at 
the website myself, and I've also considered the terms and conditions that apply to Mr M's 
account.
There is a difference between the standard exchange rate Lloyds uses to convert foreign 
currency, and the wholesale rate. Lloyds uses a table to show the difference between the 
two rates, depending on the amounts involved. The table is headed:
'Maximum current percentage difference between our standard exchange rate for sending 
money outside the UK or in a foreign currency and the wholesale rate.'
DRN-1579069The website section for sending money overseas also includes a heading labelled 'Receiving 
a payment.' Customers have to click on that section for more details about how overseas 
payments received by Lloyds are handled. The information includes the following:
'We'll convert the money you've received into pounds on the day we pay it into your account 
using our standard exchange rate.' 
Details of the standard exchange rate includes the table I've referred to above. Mr M 
considers this is misleading because the table refers to the difference in exchange rates 
for sending money overseas. As he was receiving money, he doesn't consider the table 
applies, and that Lloyds should use a more favourable exchange rate for receiving overseas 
payments.
I can see the point Mr M is making. But having considered the 'Receiving payments' section 
as a whole, I think the table is included to show customers there is a difference between 
Lloyds' standard exchange rate and the wholesale rate. I'm not persuaded that the precise 
wording of the table means a different exchange rate should apply to payments received 
from overseas. I'm satisfied that the overall wording of the 'Receiving payments' 
section makes it clear that overseas payments will be converted using the bank's standard 
exchange rate. 
This is also set out in the terms and conditions that apply to Mr M's account. Paragraph 4.7 
of Section C says:
'4.7  Receiving money from outside the UK or in a foreign currency
If we receive an electronic payment or cash (notes only) in a foreign currency, we will 
convert it into pounds using our standard exchange rate for your method of payment before 
we pay it into your account....'
I don't consider the information on Lloyds' website is misleading, and I'm satisfied that Lloyds 
processed the payments in line with the account terms. So I won't be asking the bank to 
reimburse Mr M for the amount he considers he's lost.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman