DRN-2020436
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited handled his Subject 
Access Request (SAR) and hes unhappy some information hasnt been provided. 
Mr S is represented by his father.
What happened
Mr S took out motor insurance through Somerset Bridge (which at the time was trading as 
Eldon Insurance Services Ltd). Mr S complained about the fees when he cancelled the 
policy and he made a SAR.
Mr S referred two complaints to this service  one about the cancellation fees, and another 
about how his SAR was handled. Ive already issued a decision on the complaint about the 
cancellation fees. I explained it wasnt a complaint we could consider because it wasnt 
brought to us in time. 
In respect of this complaint, about the SAR, Mr S father listed nine items that he considered 
to be outstanding.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, and she didnt think Somerset Bridge had 
provided Mr S with all the right information when responding to his SAR. She recommended 
Somerset Bridge pay Mr S £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused and send him 
the information he needs. Somerset Bridge agreed.
Mr S accepted our investigators outcome on the understanding Somerset Bridge would 
provide the missing information. However, he wasnt happy with the information he then 
received. 
Somerset Bridge has since provided five of the nine items. A sixth item related to three third 
parties; and Somerset Bridge explained why it wouldnt include information from two of them, 
but it confirmed it would investigate the information held by the other. In respect of the other 
three items  an insurance certificate, policy schedule, and portal logs  Somerset Bridge 
explained why this information wasnt available. It said the certificate and schedule were 
never generated, only the proposal form. 
Mr S father remained unhappy with Somerset Bridges explanation about the certificate and 
schedule; and he said he had previously been misled about these documents. He also said 
he had never received anything in writing from Somerset Bridge to say these documents 
werent generated, and this is something he requires should the dispute about the 
cancellation fees go to court. 
Mr S father also said Somerset Bridge should apologise for the delay, for failing to generate 
the documents, and for agreeing to disclose them when it should have known it never had 
them. He also thought Somerset Bridge should pay Mr S compensation because it didnt 
generate the documents. 
Because Mr S and his father remained unhappy, his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint Im considering here is limited to how Somerset Bridge handled Mr S SAR. 
Im not considering the policy cancellation fees, whether the fees should apply given the 
certificate and schedule werent generated, or whether compensation should be paid 
because it didnt generate these documents. Those issues are all linked to the other 
complaint which Ive already decided we cant consider.
In respect of the SAR, I accept Somerset Bridges explanation of the nine items  for which it 
has now either provided or explained why it cant. So, beyond investigating the information 
held by one of its appointed third parties (a debt recovery company), Im not persuaded it 
needs to do anything more.
Mr S father would like something in writing from Somerset Bridge to confirm the certificate 
and schedule werent generated. However, our investigator has already passed on its 
comments about these documents in an email, word-for-word, so I dont require it do 
anything further.
Ive seen confusion was caused by the way the SAR and the follow up queries were dealt 
with, and the matter was ongoing for a long time before clarity regarding the nine items in 
question was provided. Having said that, as per my other decision, Im not persuaded the 
handling of the SAR prevented Mr S from referring his complaint about the policy 
cancellation fees to us in time.
I acknowledge some inconvenience and frustration was caused by the handling of the SAR. 
However, overall, Im satisfied the £100 compensation fairly acknowledges the impact this 
matter can reasonably be said to have had on Mr S.
As explained by our investigator, if Mr S has wider concerns about how Somerset Bridge has 
handled his personal information, including its compliance with his SAR, he can also contact 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
If Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited hasnt already done so, I require it to:
-compensate Mr S £100; and
-update Mr S with the outcome of its investigation into the information held by the debt 
recovery company
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Vince MartinOmbudsman