DRN-3918927
The complaint
Mr H complains about delays caused by Wealth At Work Limited (WAW) when transferring 
his investments to another provider.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H held an Individual Savings Account (ISA) and a General Investment Account (GIA) with 
WAW which he asked to be transferred to a new provider. Both parties agree there were 
delays and the transfers didnt happen as quickly as the shouldve done. And they also 
agree that Mr H should be compensated for any financial loss.
Our Investigator provided a detailed timeline of what happened which seems to generally be 
accepted by both parties. And looking at what happened Im satisfied the timeline reflects the 
delays. As this has been agreed I wont repeat all the detail here.   
Because of the delays our Investigator recommended Mr H receive financial redress for both 
the ISA and GIA. To do this they provided a methodology with the relevant dates and 
information for the calculations to be performed. The methodology, in general, was accepted 
by Mr H and WAW. And looking at the methodology, which is repeated below, Im satisfied it 
is a fair and reasonable way of putting things right. 
In situations like this its usual for us to give an instruction, or methodology, about how a 
business should calculate any financial loss. And thats what our investigator did. We do this 
as we dont know what the exact value will be so were not able to make an award for a 
particular amount. Where both parties agree on the methodology, as is the case with this 
complaint, this is usually where our involvement comes to an end. 
Here our Investigator tried to be helpful liaising with WAW, Mr H and the new product 
provider, to obtain the information needed to perform the calculations. However there were 
some issues with the way in which the information from the new product provider was 
presented, and with Mr H signing the necessary forms for WAW to approach the new 
product provider for information. 
This is an unusual situation as both parties agree the way forward and also agree the 
general methodology of the redress. However our Investigator has been unable to informally 
resolve the issue. So in order to move the complaint forward the matter has come to me for 
a formal decision on the matter.
Putting things right
ISA
Im satisfied Mr H shouldve been able to invest his funds on 11 April 2020 rather than when 
he did on 24 April 2020 due to the delays. 
Wealth At Work should compensate the difference in units in the Charles Stanley fund 
considering what Mr H wouldve been able to purchase on 11 April 2020 compared to what 
he was able to purchase on 24 April 2020.
Wealth At Work should compensate the difference in units for the three other funds Mr H 
invested in considering what he wouldve been able to purchase on 14 April 2020 compared 
to what he purchased on 27 April 2020.
GIA
The transfer took longer than expected and Im satisfied a reasonable date for it to have 
been completed is 12 May 2020. 
Mr H sold down his GIA Funds and implemented his new investment strategy on 24 August 
2020, 14 days after the GIA transfer completed on 10 August 2020. The new provider has 
shown he reinvested his funds in line with the investment strategy proposed to him which 
was as follows (figures have been rounded up):
L&G Multi Index 6 - 23%
Vanguard LifeStrategy 60% Equity - 26%
Baillie Gifford Managed - 26%
Charles Stanley Passive 4 Fund - 26%
Cash 0%
WAW should calculate if Mr H has lost out from selling what was transferred in specie when 
he should have been able to on 12 May 2020, compared to when he actually did. 
Following that, see if there has been any loss of units on what he was able to invest in based 
on the above strategy, compared to when he should have implemented his strategy on 
26 May 2020 (14 days after the transfer shouldve completed). If there is no financial loss as 
a result this, WAW should provide their workings.
WAW can arrange with the new provider to distribute any redress due for both the ISA and 
GIA into Mr Hs portfolio in line with his investment strategy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Wealth At Work Limited should put things right in the way Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman