DRN-2489103
The complaint
Mrs W brings this complaint in respect of herself and the estate of Mr W. She says that 
Nationwide Building Society mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with lending she 
and her late husband took out. 
What happened
I note Mrs W wasnt able to be very clear in her initial complaint about the type of PPI policy 
involved or what type of lending it related to. 
However, we now know PPI was taken out on two joint loans: the first loan was in 1995 and 
a second top-up loan was taken out in 1997. One of our adjudicators has looked into this 
case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs W disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint.
Ive certainly got no doubt Mrs W honestly and genuinely now feels that PPI was mis-sold to 
her and / or her late husband. However, as Ive said, her recollections of what took place do 
seem quite vague and no doubt hampered by the first loan now being some 25 years ago. I 
therefore completely understand why she doesnt remember much about the events and 
hasnt retained any relevant documentation.
Nationwide doesnt have many records left either. Mrs W thinks this is odd, but I dont agree. 
Businesses arent required to retain records indefinitely. Nevertheless, I can see some 
archived records were found via the insurance company Nationwide partnered with at the 
time. These records have been useful.
Im therefore able to say with reasonable certainty that there were two loans and Mrs W was 
protected by PPI on both of them against losing her job or becoming too ill to work. Ive seen 
many similar Nationwide loans from that time period, where one party was insured in this 
way and the other wasnt. 
In this case, I dont think Mrs W  as opposed to the late Mr W  being the insured party was 
unusual. Thats because Mrs W herself told us that by the time the first loan was taken out, 
in 1995, the late Mr W had already been medically retired from his job. In my experience, 
this would have probably made PPI for him much less useful. On the other hand, Mrs W 
being the insured party seems to me to be a much more credible insurance option.
So, I need to think about whether Mrs W and her late husband were told that the PPI with 
their joint loan(s) was optional. Clearly, after 25 and 23 years respectively, and with no sales 
documentation to refer to, I simply cant say for sure. But having seen many of these types of 
Nationwide loans, I know the loan agreement specifically described the PPI as optional 
credit insurance. It required the consumers agreement for the PPI to be added. It also 
separately set out the cost of the PPI, the cost of the loan - and which party was insured. 
Nationwide sent me example credit agreements it used in the late 1990s to demonstrate 
what it says Mrs W and the late Mr W would have been given to sign.
In my view, this demonstrates they most likely gave their consent to buying PPI with both 
loans and would have known they were optional. I completely accept Mrs W may not 
remember all this now.
Nationwide says this wasnt an advised sale. Mrs W seems to be disputing this, but Im 
afraid my experience is that such sales were indeed non-advised. Theres nothing on the 
example documentation which persuades me that advice was given. Typically, advised sales 
required much more paperwork and a more in-depth analysis of a consumers financial 
affairs. I havent seen anything like this for this particular case and Mrs W doesnt really say 
why she thinks otherwise. I should say, however, that in my view this doesnt affect the 
outcome of the complaint in any way, so I hope that reassures Mrs W.
Nationwides responsibility was limited to providing enough information to enable Mrs W and 
the late Mr W to make their own decision about what they wanted to do. I cant say that they 
were told everything they should have been. However, Im satisfied the cost of the PPI was 
set out on the form. I think they probably had enough information on which to make an 
informed decision. Its obviously possible that Nationwide could have done things differently 
or provided more information. But I dont think this would have changed what happened. 
This is because I think Mrs W was eligible for the cover and I dont think shed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policies. She told us 
she had some sickness protection already through her job, implying she didnt need any PPI. 
I can fully understand why shes told us this but Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean she 
didnt have a use for the policy. It could have paid out a monthly benefit in the event of her 
being unable to work through illness or losing her job completely and this would have been 
in addition to any other means she already had in place.
Theres a final aspect about this case which is relevant. The insurers archived records 
show, quite clearly in my view, that Mrs W made a successful claim on the PPI in 1998 and 
was paid out a monthly sum for around 17 consecutive months. She says she doesnt 
remember this. But the information I have clearly sets out the amounts paid to her, which 
totals over £4,000. I also note that Mrs W said she too was medically retired; and the dates 
she gave about this directly correspond with the claims data from the insurer. So, I think the 
evidence is strong that such a successful claim was made between October 1998 and March 
2000. Mrs W would have therefore received more in payments, than was ever paid in PPI 
premiums. Even if her mis-sale claim was upheld, she has incurred no financial loss.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs W. I do understand how difficult it will be to recall the events 
of so long ago. However, Im afraid theres no evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold the complaint by Mrs W and the estate of Mr W. I dont 
direct Nationwide Building Society to do anything to put any matters right. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman