DRN-4172680
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the difficulties he experienced with Barclays Bank UK Plc when 
servicing a bank account which he has power of attorney over.
What happened
Mr B holds a power of attorney over his mother, Mrs Bs account and he has a debit card to 
service the account. In January 2023, Mr B tried to use his debit card at a self-service 
machine in a branch, but it didnt dispense any funds. 
He says he spoke to a staff member who told him the power of attorney had been cancelled. 
He says the staff member was reluctant to believe this was due to an error by Barclays and 
suggested this couldve been due to Mr Bs wife. He explained the staff member spoke to the 
relevant team to get the power of attorney reinstated. However, Mr Bs card still didnt work 
so he withdrew cash from the counter and a new debit card was ordered for him. 
Mr B wrote to Barclays to complain. He says he wasted over an hour of his time and asked 
that they confirm everything was in order, to prevent the same issues in the future and to be 
compensated for the time he wasted.
Mr B received the new debit card which he tried to use again in branch, but it didnt work. He 
phoned the power of attorney team whilst he was in the branch. He explained that he used 
his own phone to make this call, as there wasnt one available to use in the branch. He says 
that this call lasted 27 minutes, but got cut off when he was placed on hold. So, he decided 
to withdraw cash in the branch and call when he got home. He explained there was a long 
wait to withdraw the cash due to only one counter being open.
When Mr B called the power of attorney team again, he says he was told that everything 
seemed in order and suggested they issue a new card rather than a replacement card. They 
hoped this would resolve the problem. They also agreed to report the matter to their IT 
department. Mr B says that the call lasted for 11 minutes.
Mr B wrote to Barclays again to complain that hed again wasted around an hour of his time. 
He asked them to confirm that everything was in order and to take the steps needed to 
prevent the issue repeating. He also felt that he should be compensated and reimbursed for 
the cost of the calls.
A week later, Mr B attempted to use the second card sent to him in the branch, but it didnt 
work again. He says someone suggested using the card in the Automated Teller Machine 
(ATM) outside the branch and was able to withdraw £10. Mr B couldnt change his Personal 
Identification Number (PIN) using the self-service machine or ATM outside the branch. He 
explained he raised a complaint in the branch about the self-service machines not working to 
make withdrawals and that he wasnt able to change his PIN. He says he again spent over 
an hour trying to sort out these issues.
Mr B also found that the cash withdrawal limit on his new card had been reduced when he 
tried to withdraw funds a few weeks later. He says he spent a further 45 minutes to get his 
cash withdrawal limit restored and asked that this was also added to his complaint.
Barclays explained that due to their policy, power of attorney cards cant be used in the self-
service machines. They asked Mr B to use an ATM or the counter service if he wished to 
withdraw funds. They said theyd emailed Mr Bs feedback to the branch to arrange an ATM 
inside the branch or to install another counter as he didnt feel safe using the ATM outside 
the branch. They couldnt guarantee that these changes would be made and suggested that 
Mr B use another ATM at a safer location.
They apologised that branch staff werent aware that power of attorney cards couldnt be 
used in the self-service machines. They passed feedback to the branch to ensure this 
doesnt happen again. As a way of apology, they credited Mrs Bs account with £50 
compensation.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service as hes still unable to use the self-service 
machines in branch. He said hes wasted over five hours of his time to make four visits to the 
branch, make telephone calls and send correspondence. To put things right, hes asked that 
Barclays enable him to withdraw cash from the self-service machines in the branch or 
provide an adequate number of counters. He also wants a reasonable payment to 
compensate him for the time hes wasted as well as the costs hes incurred in calling them.
Our investigator said that the Barclays staff shouldve been aware that power of attorneys 
couldnt use the self-service machines in branch. She was satisfied Barclays had acted fairly 
by paying £50 compensation to Mrs Bs account for the trouble and upset caused. She 
agreed Mr B was impacted, but she didnt recommend additional compensation as he was 
acting in his capacity as Mrs Bs representative, and there was no further impact on Mrs B  
the customer of Barclays.
Mr B asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In summary, he said he couldnt 
understand why the complaint isnt being treated as his when it was his complaint. He 
explained that his efforts shielded his elderly mother and he found it difficult to believe that 
Barclays behaviour could be left unregulated. 
He explained that the branch staff and the power of attorney team he spoke to, werent 
aware that he couldnt use his card at the self-service machines in branch and ordered him 
new cards unnecessarily. He feels £50 compensation is too little for the time hes wasted. 
Hes pointed out that when the ATM outside the branch wasnt working, there was a long 
queue at the counter, and he wasnt able to withdraw cash which caused him to waste more 
time. 
He says that when he couldnt change the PIN on his new card and had to increase the cash 
withdrawal limit, it added to the time he wasted which was solely due to Barclays pointlessly 
issuing him a new card. He explained that the only reason he agreed to Barclays sending 
him a new card was because theyd wrongly believed itd enable him to use the self-service 
machines in branch. He didnt feel it was fair that Barclays arent held responsible for their 
treatment of him as an attorney. He asked the ombudsman to consider fair compensation for 
his time and to put pressure on Barclays to make cash available to attorneys in the branch in 
an efficient manner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have already accepted they gave Mr B poor service here and having reviewed the 
complaint, I agree theyve let Mr B down. Barclays gave Mr B incorrect information that the 
power of attorney had been cancelled. They also missed a number of opportunities to inform 
Mr B that his card couldnt be used at a self-service machine as it was a power of attorney 
card.
Theres no doubt in my mind that Mr B has been caused unnecessary inconvenience, 
frustration and annoyance. I say this because both the branch staff and the power of 
attorney team werent aware of the limitations of Mr Bs card, which meant they sent him two 
new cards when this was never going to resolve his concern of being able to use the self-
service machine in branch. 
It also meant that Mr B had to spend time trying to change the PIN which couldve been 
avoided. I note at this point, Barclays hadnt informed Mr B that he couldnt use the self-
service machine, so I imagine Mr B was caused frustration and annoyance when he 
attempted to change his PIN in branch. Since the ATM outside the branch wasnt working, 
Mr B had to change his PIN at another machine. And as explained, sending him a new card 
was unnecessary, the impact on him here couldve been avoided.
I think Barclays shouldve also taken care to ensure the new card sent to Mr B had the same 
cash withdrawal limit as his original card, rather than the default limit. This also wouldve 
prevented Mr B from being inconvenienced further.
Mr B wants us to ask Barclays to allow him to withdraw cash from the machines within the 
branch or provide adequate number of counters to minimise long queuing times. Its not my 
role here to tell Barclays how to operate their day-to-day business, which includes making 
changes to their policies on power of attorney cards as well as how many counters they 
should have open in branch. These are legitimate commercial decisions that Barclays are 
entitled to make.  
Im satisfied that Barclays have now informed Mr B that he cant use his card at the self-
service machines in branch. Although I appreciate why Mr B prefers to use the self-service 
machine, I think Barclays have offered him reasonable alternatives, such as using an ATM 
or counter in branch. Im pleased to see that Barclays have passed Mr Bs feedback to the 
branch which is what Id expect them to do.
Turning to the point on compensation. Mr B has explained that Mrs B hasnt been impacted 
by these issues he experienced as his efforts have shielded her. I think the apology from 
Barclays and £50 compensation credited to Mrs Bs account is a fair resolution to this 
complaint when considering the impact on Mrs B. I think this also sufficiently covers any call 
costs Mr B says he incurred.
I appreciate Mr B has made it clear that hes the party bringing the complaint and hes not 
doing so on behalf of Mrs B. The issue hes raised is how Barclays have treated him and the 
impact on him personally, rather than Mrs B.
Our service is bound by certain rules that are set out by the financial industry regulator; the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These are known as the dispute resolution (or DISP) 
rules and are contained in the FCAs Handbook.
DISP 2.7 states that we can only consider a complaint if its brought by, or on behalf of, an 
eligible complainant. There are two parts to the eligibility rules explained in DISP 2.7.3 and 
DISP 2.7.6  both of these need to be met in order for Mr B to be an eligible complainant.The first part sets out that a consumer is an eligible complainant. A consumer is defined as 
an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that individuals trade, 
business, craft or profession. Mr B meets this definition and also satisfies the first part of the 
eligibility rules. But as I explained, Mr B must also meet the second part of the rule. 
The second part of the rule states that to be an eligible complainant, he must also have a 
complaint which arises from matters relevant to one or more of the specified relationships 
with the business complained about. The full list of relationships can be found in DISP 2.7.6, 
so I wont include it here.
The relevant specified relationships here are  whether Mr Bs complaint arises from a 
relationship he has with Barclays as a customer or potential customer. Mr Bs complaint here 
doesnt arise from a relationship he has with Barclays directly, as he isnt their customer. 
Instead, his complaint arises from Mrs Bs relationship with Barclays as shes their customer 
and Mr B is acting as her attorney. Even if Mr B had an account with Barclays or was looking 
to apply for an account, the complaint thats been brought to us isnt as a result of his 
relationship with Barclays directly. 
This means Mr B doesnt meet the second part of our eligibility rules. While I know itll be 
disappointing to Mr B that he isnt an eligible complainant under our rules, we dont have the 
power to consider a complaint from him personally on this matter. However, Mrs B is an 
eligible complainant as per the rules Ive explained above. Therefore, were able to consider 
the complaint from Mr B only on behalf of Mrs B.
I appreciate Mr B feels he should be compensated for the time hes spent. But I only have 
the power to make an award of compensation to an eligible complainant. And while I accept 
Mr B was distressed and inconvenienced by the customer service he received while acting 
as Mrs Bs attorney, as Ive explained already, he isnt an eligible complaint here. 
Mr B has said himself that Mrs B hasnt been impacted as he hasnt explained the dispute to 
her, shielding her from worry and distress. So, the impact here was on Mr B personally. 
Unfortunately, as he isnt an eligible complainant, I dont have the power to ask Barclays to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he was caused while he was carrying 
out his responsibilities as Mrs Bs power of attorney. 
I know Mr B feels strongly about his complaint, but our role isnt to penalise or punish 
businesses. Barclays have acknowledged the service they gave Mr B was poor, apologised 
to him and passed his feedback to learn from his experience. I think theyve acted fairly by 
taking all the steps Id reasonably expect them to under the circumstances
All things considered, Im satisfied Barclays have resolved this complaint fairly and I wont be 
asking them to do anything else to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Ash WeedonOmbudsman