DRN-2556671
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim under her home insurance policy for 
storm damage to a garden wall.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs O made a claim to QIC. She said her boundary wall had been 
damaged in a recent storm. Her property was built in 1981. The boundary wall was a single-
skin (half a brick) thick.
QIC sent a surveyor to inspect the wall. Based on his report QIC declined the claim. It said 
there was no evidence to suggest the damage to the wall was a direct result of storm winds.
Mrs O brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She wasnt 
satisfied that the storm was the main cause of the damage.
As Mrs O didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained by our investigator, when considering a storm complaint, we generally take into 
consideration the following questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
QIC accepted that there were storm force winds in Mrs Os local area around the time that 
the damage happened. 
Regarding the second question, storm force winds can blow over garden walls and fences. 
So I think the damage is consistent with storm damage.
What I have to decide is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. QIC said:
Our Surveyor  would  not expect  a wall of 2.0m  in height  to be constructed  of 1/2 brick,  
even  though  it had 5 supporting  piers.
QICs technical team reviewed the surveyors report and photos. It advised:
a single skin wall is only suitable to a height of around 500mm, anything higher should be 
double-skinned for stability. This in mind along with visual confirmation of failed mortar joints 
and age-related deterioration it was only a matter of time before a powerful gust of wind 
caused the collapse of the wall.
It also noted that although the wall had collapsed, the boundary fencing was still in place.
QIC hasnt shown that Mrs Os wall wasnt built in accordance with building regulations or 
standards in force at the relevant time. Mrs O disagreed that a 2m high single-skin wall was 
inadequate. She said shed recently visited a showhouse on a new development where the 
developer was building similar walls. Government guidance on garden walls suggests how 
high walls should be in relation to their thickness. But other factors also need to be taken into 
account such as whether, like Mrs Os wall, the wall has supporting piers. Overall Im not 
persuaded that Mrs Os wall was built to an incorrect specification. 
From looking at photos of the brickwork in Mrs Os house and the garden wall, I think its 
reasonable to assume that they were built around the same time. I also think its difficult to 
dispute that there would be some wear and tear to a wall that had been standing for almost 
40 years. Mrs O said the wall had been previously repointed and maintained as necessary. 
However, QIC has referred to the failure in the mortar joints in the wall which it thought had 
deteriorated over time. These are clearly visible in photos which show open joints and gaps 
in the mortar in the remaining section of the wall. In addition there doesnt appear to be 
much mortar on the bricks which have fallen down and a large number of them look as 
though they could be reused. That seems to me to support QICs conclusions about the 
mortar not being in good condition.
QIC was entitled to rely on its surveyors opinion to decline Mrs Os claim and I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for it to do so. I dont think Mrs O has thrown sufficient doubt on 
these conclusions to make me think that QIC should change its position. In my opinion QIC 
has shown its more likely than not that there were existing problems with the wall and/or that 
a storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. My conclusion is that QICs decision not to 
settle Mrs Os claim for storm damage was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman