DRN-2458194
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about the handling of their water damage claim under their home 
insurance policy with Covea Insurance Plc, through Saga Home Claims (Covea). They say 
that the compensation offered to date is not enough and ask for it to be increased.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M made a claim under their home insurance policy with Covea to cover the 
damage to both buildings and contents after a water damage incident. 
Mr M and Mrs M are unhappy with the way Covea handled their claim for water damage. 
They feel Covea didnt take into consideration the fact that Mrs M had personal 
requirements, or their age. They feel they received limited support from Covea and werent 
given any information of what to expect in terms of the process and timescales. They feel 
Covea delayed the process. Covea had also declined parts of Mr M and Mrs Ms claim 
expenses, relating to part of the Disturbance Allowance and fuel costs. As Covea has now 
accepted these I wont cover them in any detail in my response, but I will consider it when 
deciding on appropriate compensation. Mr M and Mrs M are also unhappy with the customer 
service they received. Mr M and Mrs M complained to Covea on two occasions during their 
claim. 
Our investigator noted that Covea upheld both complaints and offered a total of £450 
compensation for the trouble and upset theyd caused. Covea didnt offer compensation for 
the time and effort Mr M and Mrs Ms son had spent co-ordinating their claim. Our 
investigator noted that this service cant award compensation to anyone except the 
policyholders. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that £450 compensation was fair for the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr M and Mrs M as a result of the errors Covea had made. 
Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators decision. So their complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment on every point Mr M and Mrs M made, although I have read and 
listened to everything both they and Covea sent us. Instead Ill focus on the key issues 
raised. Two complaints have been raised with Covea throughout the duration of the claim. Ill 
look at both complaints together and then decide what I think fair compensation should be.
How the claim was handled
Ive listened to the telephone calls between Mr M/Mr Ms son and Covea. And to the calls 
that Covea had with their agents. At first, Mr M and Mrs M wanted details of the timescales 
and process of the claim. They were told that unforeseen circumstances often take place, so 
Covea couldnt give them accurate timescales. The claims team didnt want to set false or 
unrealistic expectations. However, Covea accepted it couldve avoided stress later on if itd 
given clear information about the claims process at the start. I cant see that Covea made 
any mistakes in the claims process, but I do note that clear information wasnt provided at 
each stage of the claim. Covea has already accepted this point. 
Covea has also already accepted that Mr M and Mrs M were given the impression that 
Covea would source the Alternative Accommodation (AA) they thought might be needed. 
Covea has confirmed that it isnt responsible for sourcing suitable AA, but it is responsible for 
paying for it. I havent found any evidence that it didnt take Mrs Ms needs into account 
when looking for AA. Covea accepted that if the process around AA had been explained and 
if Mr M and Mrs M had been given the option of finding their own AA it may have helped to 
move the claim forward sooner. 
Mr M and Mrs Ms son said that Mrs Ms sleeping arrangements werent taken into account 
when planning the works. She has a special bed set up, which is very important for her. But 
once this was raised with Covea it arranged for it to be sorted appropriately. Covea also 
offered to cover the cost of having the bed removed and tried to ensure that the bed could 
be put back together. So I dont think that they ignored Mrs Ms needs in this regard.
I note that Covea was asked to ensure that Mr M and Mrs M wouldnt be contacted about the 
claim. Mr M and Mrs Ms son should be the only person to be contacted.  But this didnt 
happen. Its common in claims like these for several parties to be involved. Each party works 
to its own schedule. So there can be delays if a party cant liaise with someone quickly. I 
understand this caused stress for Mr M and Mrs M. And Ill consider this when looking at the 
overall level of compensation.
Covea awarded Mr M and Mrs M £350 for the trouble and inconvenience around the lack of 
any clear explanation of the claims process and the sourcing of the AA after their first 
complaint. 
Delays to the claim
Ill now look at whether Covea caused any undue delay when handling this complaint.
Works couldnt be carried out until AA was arranged. Coveas records show that the issue 
regarding AA was partly due to the time of year the claim took place, and partly due to the 
specific requirements. Im satisfied that Covea took reasonable steps to try to find 
somewhere suitable as quickly as possible. So I cant find evidence that Covea is to blame 
for delaying the start of the works.
Once the works started, Covea kept in close contact with Mr M and Mrs Ms son and the 
relevant contractors. It tried to answer questions quickly and made sure the contractors were 
aware of any concerns. Covea took reasonable steps to co-ordinate the works and ensure 
they were completed as quickly as possible. Ive noted that there were a few occasions 
where Mr M and Mrs Ms son had different conversations with the contractors to the ones 
that Covea had with them. However once Covea was made aware of the issues it seems to 
have taken reasonable steps to resolve them as quickly as possible. All claims of this nature 
are disruptive to the claimant. There are often delays with the completion of the works that 
are outside of the insurers control. But I cant say that Covea was responsible for the delays 
once the works started.Delays were caused by the contractors schedules.  And because Mr M and Mrs M were 
given conflicting information these issues took more time to resolve than they shouldve. In 
its response to Mr M and Mrs Ms second complaint, Covea accepted that there were a 
couple of instances of miscommunication between the contractors.
As Mr M and Mrs M stayed in the property overnight, the drying process took longer than if it 
was empty. Some of the required works took longer than expected as the contractors could 
only work during the hours in which the property was vacant. The contractors had to tidy 
their equipment away each evening and this also made the works take longer. But I cant say 
that Covea is responsible for these delays.
Covea awarded Mr M and Mrs M £100 for their trouble and inconvenience related to delays 
caused by the miscommunication between the contractors. 
Customer Service
I understand that Mr M and Mrs M were embarrassed when they were offered a cash 
settlement relatively early in the claims process. This is a normal practice in claims like 
these. Covea did inform Mr M and Mrs Ms son that this might happen during a call on 3 
June 2019. So I cant find them responsible for the embarrassment this caused.
I can see that Mr M and Mrs M were further distressed when an incorrect cheque was sent. 
And Covea was unhelpful sorting it out. Unfortunately, mistakes like this do sometimes 
happen. Ive found no evidence that Covea didnt follow their normal process in correcting 
this issue. 
Mr M and Mrs M also told us that on at least one occasion they felt an advisors tone was 
rude. Ive listened to all the phone calls Ive been sent on this claim, and I found the advisors 
to be polite throughout. So I dont have any evidence on this point. However, I know that the 
claims process wouldve been stressful for Mr M and Mrs M and they mayve had different 
expectations about how they would be looked after.
Summary
Covea has paid £350 for the first complaint, and a further £100 for the second complaint, 
both for trouble and inconvenience. Ive looked at the claim from the beginning until the 
second complaint was issued, and I think this is a fair amount of compensation. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr M and Mrs M and their son. But I think the main issue 
here is that Mr M and Mrs M and their son had different expectations about the claims 
process than Covea. If Covea had explained the process in full at the start of the claim a lot 
of the complaints couldve been avoided. I know it wouldve been distressing for Mr M and 
Mrs M to have the claim open for so long. But Covea did take reasonable steps to move the 
claim forward. So I dont think its responsible for the overall delay in the claim.
As our investigator noted, we can only consider any trouble and upset suffered by the 
policyholder. Therefore we cant consider any distress Mr M and Mrs Ms son has gone 
through. However, looking at the complaints in full, I believe that £450 compensation is fair 
and reasonable, regardless of who went through the process.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Joanne Occleshaw
Ombudsman