DRN-4321849
The complaint
Miss W complains that Santander UK plc wouldnt allow her to transfer, or port, her 
mortgage with it to a new property.
What happened
Miss W has a mortgage with Santander. In 2018, she took a fixed rate interest rate product 
of 2.39% until 2 August 2023, on a mortgage of just over £100,000. The mortgage was 
payable on a capital and interest repayment basis over a term of 25 years.
In January 2023, through a broker, Miss W applied to Santander to port most of the 
mortgage to a new property. She wanted to downsize and use some of the equity in her 
existing property to repay debts, including arrears of around £3,000 on the Santander 
mortgage. She said she was selling her property for £225,000 and buying a new one for 
£198,000, and she wanted to port £95,000 of the mortgage.
Santander declined her application. Miss W and her broker appealed, but Santander 
wouldnt change its mind. In March 2023, Miss W complained.
Santander said it had done nothing wrong; it had considered Miss Ws application several 
times, but its decision to decline it remained the same.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. The 
Investigator noted that Santander had concerns about how Miss W would afford the 
mortgage if it allowed her to port it, but he said that the rules of mortgage regulation allowed 
for Santander to set aside those concerns in circumstances like Miss Ws. He concluded that 
Santander should have allowed Miss W to port the mortgage. Miss Ws proposed sale and 
purchase had since fallen through, so the Investigator said that Santander should pay 
Miss W £300 compensation and reimburse any costs arising from her failed porting 
application, subject to invoices, but not including the costs of a lease extension. 
Miss W didnt say whether or not she accepted the Investigators recommendation, but 
Santander did not accept it. It said it was right to be concerned about affordability, and the 
risk to it would have increased if it had allowed Miss W to port.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Ive noted everything Miss W has told us about her extremely difficult and tragic 
circumstances. I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation she has found herself in and 
I hope she will accept my condolences on her losses.
Miss W wanted to leave the mortgaged property, and in doing so she planned to downsize 
and reduce her mortgage balance slightly, which would also have enabled her to repay other 
debts including the mortgage arrears. Santander rejected her application on grounds of 
affordability.
In making my decision, I must take account of relevant rules and regulations. Those include 
the rules of mortgage regulation, which are set out in the Mortgages and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook and are known as MCOB. As our Investigator pointed out, 
MCOB 11.6.3 R is relevant here. 
MCOB 11.6.3 R says that a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a 
borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing, 
(other than for product fees) and no changes to the terms of the mortgage contract that 
affect affordability. That isnt to say that a lender mustnt consider affordability, but it means 
that it wouldnt be fair for the lender to rely on the outcome of an affordability assessment, on 
its own, to reject a porting application. 
Miss W didnt want to make any changes to the mortgage contract which would have been 
material to the affordability of the mortgage  quite the opposite in fact: she wanted to 
reduce the mortgage balance slightly. So, had she been able to port the mortgage to a new 
property, the mortgage would have been more, not less, affordable. 
Ive looked very carefully at Santanders records of its assessments of Miss Ws application. 
I think those records are clear that Santanders main concern was Miss Ws ability to afford 
the mortgage. It also had some wider concerns about Miss Ws circumstances, including her 
credit file. But Miss Ws mortgage was already with Santander, with more than another 20 
years left on the term. Had Miss W been able to reduce her mortgage balance, and clear the 
mortgage arrears and some other debts, her financial position would have improved and the 
risk of her getting into more financial difficulty would have reduced. I would also expect 
Santander to have kept in mind its overarching duty to take into account Miss Ws best 
interests and, therefore, her extremely difficult personal situation and keenness to leave the 
mortgaged property. 
Santander has pointed out that the loan-to-value ratio of the mortgage would have increased 
if Miss W had ported, and that would have made the mortgage riskier for it. I think thats a 
valid point and one that Santander was entitled to consider, although I note that this doesnt 
appear to have been part of its reasoning at the time it declined Miss Ws application. In the 
particular circumstances of this case, however, this doesnt lead me to conclude that 
Santanders decision to decline the application was fair.
Miss W planned to sell her property for £225,000 and buy a new one for £198,000. She 
wanted to port £95,000 of the mortgage, which at the time had a balance of just over 
£102,000. So the move, had it gone ahead, would have resulted in less equity in the 
mortgaged property and therefore more risk to Santander if it needed to take the property 
into possession and sell it. But I dont consider this increased risk significant enough to 
outweigh the factors in favour of Miss Ws move  and bearing in mind that Santander wasnt 
required to assess the affordability of the mortgage. The loan-to-value ratio would only have 
changed by around 3%, and would still have been below 50%. It would also have been 
significantly lower than the original LTV ratio when Miss W took out her fixed rate product in 
2018, when she borrowed just over £100,000 against a property value of £138,000. In these 
circumstances, there would have been very little risk to Santander of being unable to recover 
its money should it have needed to take steps to do so.
In all the circumstances, I dont consider that Santander acted fairly in declining Miss Ws 
application, and I consider that Miss W should fairly receive some compensation in 
recognition of the disappointment and upset she experienced as a result. I share the 
Investigators view that £300 is a fair award.I think it would nevertheless be difficult to conclude with any certainty that Miss Ws sale and 
purchase would have completed successfully. There are many variables in any such 
transaction, and porting the mortgage would also have been subject to valuation of the new 
property, for example. Our Investigator asked Miss W for invoices for any costs she paid in 
connection with her application to Santander, and she has provided some solicitors 
invoices. They are, however, for costs involved in a lease extension, and therefore seem 
likely to be payable in any event when Miss W sells her property or extending the lease may 
have increased the value of her property  and I dont find that I can fairly require Santander 
to reimburse these costs, since they dont appear to have arisen as a result of anything it did 
wrong. 
However, if Miss W did incur costs which she wouldnt otherwise have incurred and which 
she has been unable to recover or from which she hasnt benefited because Santander 
declined her application to port the mortgage, I consider that Santander should fairly 
reimburse her for those, plus interest as set out below, subject to Miss W providing 
Santander with relevant invoices and proof of payment.
Finally, should Miss W make a fresh application to port her mortgage in future, I would 
expect Santander to give it proper consideration, bearing in mind MCOB 11.6.3 R.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, Santander should:
- pay Miss W £300 compensation; and
- subject to invoices and proof of payment by Miss W, pay Miss W any costs she has 
incurred as a result of her declined porting application which she wouldnt otherwise 
have had to pay and from which she hasnt benefited, plus simple annual interest of 8% 
running from the date she paid those costs to the date of settlement.
If the 8% interest element of my award is payable and Santander considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that element it may do so. But it 
should tell Miss W how much it has deducted and give her a tax deduction certificate if 
requested, so that she can reclaim the tax if shes entitled to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK plc to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman