DRN-3623474
The complaint
Mr J complains that his pension, now with Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada Limited
trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada, was mis sold. Hes also unhappy that all of his
contributions were invested in a single fund.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 14 July 2020. Ive repeated here the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings. 
Mr Js pension, originally with Confederation Life, was set up in January 1994. At the time 
he was 33, self employed and earning £15,000 pa. Mr J paid £101.16 pm (which included 
£1.16 for waiver of contributions). All of his contributions were invested in the providers 
Managed Pension Fund. Mr J stopped his contributions in December 1994 and the policy 
was made paid up.
Mr J complained, via his representative, in June 2020. The main complaint points were:
Mr J had little experience or knowledge of pensions or investments. He accepted the
advice as being in his best interests. Hed made total contributions of £1,200 with no
withdrawals. The current fund value was just £432.41.
The adviser had obligations under the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust
Regulatory Organisation) code. Including giving the investor all relevant information
and using best endeavours to enable them to understand the nature of any risks
involved. And to have regard to the investors financial position generally and to any
rights under an occupational pension scheme or the state earnings related pension
scheme. There were also common law duties, including to act with reasonable skill
and care and to disclose all risks and alternatives to allow informed consent.
Mr Js representative also referred to investment costs, which he said were the most
reliable predictor of future returns  lower costs meant higher returns. Seemingly
small unnecessary costs can compound into significant long term financial detriment.
And there was no reliable way to select, in advance, high cost funds that would
deliver better returns than lower cost alternatives.
Acting with reasonable skill and care meant a duty not to expose a client to
unnecessary fund costs and to give due consideration to low cost funds and their
advantages and the risks of choosing higher cost alternatives. Choosing a higher
cost, actively managed fund over, say, a low cost index exposed the client to an
increased risk of a relatively poor return  only a small proportion of fund managers
can deliver sufficient out performance to make up for the extra costs and those fund
managers cant be identified in advance.
The client must also be informed of all the costs they will be paying. If possible, costs
should be avoided altogether or at least kept to a minimum.
All of Mr Js contributions were invested in a single, complex and high cost managed
fund. That was unsuitable as it meant a lack of diversification and an unnecessary
concentration of risk and costs. There were several funds available. Contributions
shouldve been spread across different funds to reduce risk.
The return received by Mr J has been very poor when compared to a portfolio of low
cost funds with an appropriate asset allocation. This must be due to excessive costs
or poor management, or a combination of the two. Both could, and should, have
been avoided.
Sun Life Financial of Canada didnt uphold the complaint. It said the pension was suitable for
Mr J as someone who was self employed and without any existing pension provision.
Information about the funds available was provided but advice wasnt given. Mr J had
selected the Managed Pension Fund himself. Premium payments were only maintained for a
year and thats had a major impact on the size of the pension fund.
The complaint was referred to us. One of our investigators looked into it but he didnt uphold
it. He said the pension was suitable for Mr J. The Managed Pension Fund was diversified
and the charges had been made clear. The annual statements had also said that charges
would continue to erode the fund value.
In response, Mr Js representative referred to what the investigator had said about there
being no evidence to suggest Mr J had been disadvantaged due to fund charges, which
wouldve been incurred whatever fund hed selected. Mr Js representative said that was
factually incorrect. And, in a simple portfolio of funds containing 50% UK equities and 50%
UK fixed interest securities with 2% pa charges (which was higher than necessary), the
£1,200 paid in by Mr J would now be worth over £4,500. And, with international
diversification (US and European as well as UK equities and fixed interest securities), it
would be worth even more.
We asked Sun Life Financial of Canada for some further information. It provided copies of
the point of sale documents. Well provide copies in case Mr Js representative hasnt seen
them.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the views expressed by the investigator and the reasons he
gave for not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Im required under DISP (Dispute Resolution) 3.6.4R, in considering whats fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, to take into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Im considering the complaint on
the basis of the circumstances, including the advisers obligations, at the time.
Those obligations werent as stringent in 1994 as they are now. At the time the adviser was
bound by the common law requirements: not to make negligent mis-statements; where
information is given, to disclose all material information; and, where advice is given, to
advise with reasonable care and skill. The adviser was also required to act in accordance
with the LAUTRO rules and which encompassed the common law duties.
I think setting up a personal pension was suitable for Mr J. He was self employed and he
didnt have access to an employers pension scheme. He didnt have any existing pension
provision. A need to save for retirement had been identified. Mr J only maintained the
premiums for a year but I dont think theres any suggestion, looking at his recorded
earnings, that the premiums werent affordable.
Much of what Mr Js representative has said centres on the fact that all of Mr Jscontributions were invested in a single fund. Sun Life Financial of Canada says it didnt
advise on fund choice. But I cant be certain exactly what was said about the available
funds. Its possible that the adviser may have said something which wasnt just information
but amounted to advice. So Ive considered suitability as well.
Given that the pension was set up almost thirty years ago, its not possible to say now
exactly what was discussed. But Ive seen the information Mr J wouldve been given,
including the booklet entitled Personal Penson Plans Technical Specifications, an
additional information leaflet and the key features document. I dont have any reason to
think Mr J didnt get that literature. And I also think its reasonable to assume that
discussions with the adviser wouldve been based on that written information.
The Further information about your Personal Pension (Regular Premium) Plan section of
the key features document sets out that it will be assumed that the investment will be in the
Managed Pension Fund (and which it says spreads the investment risk and is selected by
many policyholders) but that premiums can be invested in a range of up to eight pension
funds which were set out. The key features document says, about How does it work?, that
the regular premiums, after deduction of charges, are invested in a choice of pension
investment funds. And the additional information leaflet also says, about Investment
Funds that premiums can be invested in a range of up to eight different funds which are
again set out. Section 5 of the Personal Penson Plans Technical Specifications booklet
also says theres a choice of eight funds and sets them out.
So, although the Managed Pension Fund was the default fund, I think the information Mr J
wouldve been given and discussed with the adviser made it clear that there was a choice
and he didnt have to select the Managed Pension Fund.
Mr Js representative has said that a single fund wasnt suitable and lacked diversification.
Id agree that diversification is (and always has been) important and is generally regarded as
good investment practice. While losses can still result, diversification reduces risk. Spreading
money across different types of investments and assets classes means, if one holding
performs poorly in the prevailing economic circumstances, others may do better and so the
risk of an overall loss is reduced. So I can see the argument that investing in a single fund
may not be prudent. But it will depend on the fund itself.
Section 5 of the Personal Penson Plans Technical Specifications booklet explains, about
the Managed Pension Fund, that it invests in a balanced mix of the six unit linked sector
funds listed. Which are Cash Deposit Pension Fund; Equity Pension Fund; Fixed Interest
Pension Fund; Index-Linked Pension Fund; International Pension Fund; and Property
Pension Fund. A brief description as to how each of those funds invests is set out. The
range is quite broad. UK and international equities were included as well as fixed interest
government securities and short term deposits and commercial property. I think that meant
the Managed Pension Fund was diversified in itself. Investing in a single, well diversified,
fund offered a convenient investment solution.
Mr Js contributions couldve been invested differently  in one or more of the other
available funds and which might be regarded as lower risk than the Managed Pension
Fund, which carried some risk. But Mr J was relatively young and some way off retirement.
I havent seen anything to indicate he was risk averse. I dont think the Managed Pension
Fund was unsuitable for him because it involved too much risk.
Mr Js representative says that due consideration should be given to low cost funds. And that
actively managed funds rarely sufficiently over perform to make up for the higher costs with it
not being possible to identify, in advance, those managers who will deliver sufficient out
performance. I think thats somewhat of a generalisation which, taken to its logicalconclusion, would mean that actively managed funds would never be chosen over lower cost
funds. Some managed funds can deliver performance that, after fees are paid, beats the
market, even if research shows that relatively few actually achieve that consistently.
Mr Js representative has also referred to a portfolio of 50% UK Equities and 50% UK Bonds
as a comparison to illustrate the loss Mr J has suffered. It may be that, with hindsight of over
30 years since the sale, Mr Js investment might have performed better had he invested
differently. But, even if this was the case, that in itself doesnt mean any recommendation to
start a pension with contributions invested solely in the Managed Pension Fund was
unsuitable.
As to charges, I have no reason to think these werent brough to Mr Js attention at the time.
Although the charging structure might appear somewhat complex, I dont think the charges
were out of line with similar products offered at the time. As has been noted, Mr J only
maintained his contributions for a relatively short period and the continued deduction of
charges has had a negative impact on his modest fund value.
I dont think there any breach of the LAUTRO or common law obligations. I dont think setting
up a pension and investing all of Mr Js contributions in the Managed Pension Fund was
unsuitable.
Sun Life Financial of Canada didnt have any further comments. And we didnt receive any 
response to my provisional decision from Mr Js representative. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I said in my provisional decision (and set out above) forms part of this decision. In the 
absence of any further information, evidence, arguments or comments my views havent 
changed. For the reasons Ive given earlier, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman