DRN-2422500
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs B in 1990, in connection with a 
mortgage theyd arranged in 1986. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs B the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mr and Mrs B are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide much information from the point of sale, which isnt 
surprising given that these events took place over thirty years ago. I realise Mr and Mrs B 
consider Halifax should be able to provide full records of what happened when the policy 
was sold, and the relevant policy documentation from the time. 
But we wouldnt expect a bank to retain records indefinitely, particularly in connection with 
accounts that have been closed for some time.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide a copy of the policy document that was in place in 1990, 
because its records dont go back that far. But its based its assessment of Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint on the documentation available at the closest date to 1990. I dont consider thats 
an unreasonable approach, and its similar to other cases Ive seen.
Ive looked closely at the limited internal records Halifax has been able to provide, to work 
out whats likely to have happened when the policy was taken out in 1990. 
Halifax had suggested that the policy benefit was probably split equally between Mr and Mrs 
B, and that the premiums were £20 each per month. But I note that its final response letter to 
Mr and Mrs B dated 10 July 2019 indicated that only Mr B was covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs B have told me that Mrs B stopped working in 1990. So she wouldnt have been 
eligible for the policy. 
On balance, I think its likely that only Mr B was covered by the policy. As Mrs B wasnt 
working at that point, I consider its unlikely there wouldve been any cover put in place for 
her.
So Im not persuaded that Halifax put cover in place for Mrs B that she wasnt eligible for.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs B didnt realise they had a choice about 
taking the PPI. Mr B has indicated that the cover was put in place because Mrs B had 
stopped working. So I think its likely that Mr and Mrs B wanted the peace of mind of knowing 
their mortgage repayments would be covered if something went wrong and Mr B couldnt 
work.
Halifax has accepted that it probably advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy and it 
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time. I say this because:
- there is nothing to suggest that Mr B wasnt eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances.
- Mr B wasnt entitled to employer benefits if he couldnt work due to sickness or 
accident, and he and Mrs B didnt have any savings. So I think the policy wouldve 
been useful to them if Mr B hadnt been able to work.
- Theres nothing to suggest that Mr B was affected by any of the conditions limiting 
the policys main benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people 
with pre-existing medical conditions. As its likely he could have benefited from the 
full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B needed better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs B before they agreed 
to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs B would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, its unlikely that Mr B wouldve been affected by 
any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.Mr and Mrs B mention that a claim they made on the policy was turned down. They consider 
this is evidence that the policy was mis-sold. But there can be many reasons why a PPI 
claim doesnt succeed. So Im not persuaded that the unsuccessful claim means I should 
find the policy was mis-sold.
If Mr and Mrs B consider Halifax wrongly turned down their claim, they may want to raise this 
as a separate complaint with the business. But given the amount of time thats passed since 
they say the claim was made, its possible that it will be made too late and the business 
wont be required to look into it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman