DRN-4338866
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice given by Merlin Financial Services Limited (Merlin) to 
transfer the benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him 
and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr G is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr G.
What happened
Mr G held benefits in the BSPS having previously worked for the sponsoring employer. In 
March 2016, Mr Gs former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB pension scheme) 
from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding 
their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. 
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Gs former employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
The RAA was signed and confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out 
shortly after. Updated transfer valuations were then provided by the BSPS trustees to 
qualifying members, reflecting the improved funding position. And in October 2017, 
members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them the options to 
either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their 
BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make a decision about joining the BSPS2 was 
11 December 2017 (later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Merlin says Mr G approached it, a pension transfer specialist, via his financial adviser, who 
worked for a different business, for advice about transferring his BSPS benefits. 
Merlin completed a fact-find on 7 December 2017, to gather information about Mr Gs 
circumstances and objectives. Mr G was 52, in good health, married with two children. He 
was employed and his income exceeded his outgoings. In addition to his BSPS benefits, 
Mr G held benefits in three other defined contribution (DC) pensions schemes. One was 
with his current employer, to which he was making contributions of around £2,200 per year. 
The other two were no longer receiving contributions and had a total value of approximately 
£30,500. Mrs G also held pension benefits in two different pensions, one of which was a DB 
scheme.
Mr G expected to retire at age 67. But he said hed like to retire or reduce his hours at age 
60. Merlin said he expected to need an income of £15,000 per year from age 67. But from 
age 60 only expected to require £10,000 per year from his pensions. It said he was 
interested in transferring his BSPS benefits to a more flexible pension to enable him to retire 
early. It said Mr and Mrs Gs state pensions and Mrs Gs DB scheme benefits were likely to 
be enough to meet their needs from age 67. Merlin said Mr G was concerned about the 
benefits moving to the PPF and losing the option to access them flexibly. And it also said 
Mr G was interested in the lump sum death benefits a personal pension offered, so that he 
could leave his full pension to his wife and children. 
Merlin also carried out an assessment of Mr Gs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be low 
or three on a scale of one to ten, with one being lowest risk and ten highest. 
On 22 December 2017, Merlin sent Mr G its written recommendation (often referred to as a 
suitability report). It advised him to transfer the full cash-equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
of his benefits (£212,121.10) from the BSPS to a personal pension with a named provider 
and invest in a managed fund that Merlin said met Mr Gs attitude to risk. Merlin said it was 
unlikely the new pension would grow at a rate large enough to provide benefits equal to 
those the existing scheme would pay. And it said for that reason it wouldnt recommend a 
transfer. But because Mr G wanted flexibility and alternative death benefits, it said it was 
happy to facilitate a transfer for him. The transfer went ahead in line with the 
recommendation.
Mr G complained in 2023 to Merlin about the suitability of the transfer advice. Merlin didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said it thought the advice was suitable based on Mr Gs concerns 
about the issues the scheme had experienced and his preference for flexibility in how he 
could take his benefits and for lump sum death benefits.
Mr G referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
considered it. He said he didnt think Mr G needed to transfer at the time he did and that, in 
his view, there were no compelling reasons that meant a transfer was in Mr Gs best 
interests. So, he recommended that Merlin compensate Mr G for any loss the advice had 
caused and pay him £300 for the distress hed suffered.
Merlin disagreed. It said Mr G and his adviser had approached it looking to transfer his 
benefits. Merlin said Mr G would not have been reliant on his DB scheme benefits once he 
and Mrs G began receiving state pension, to meet their needs. It said Mr G had wanted 
flexibility in terms of how he could draw his benefits and wasnt transferring to replicate 
guaranteed benefits. And it said because of this, his concerns about the running of the DB 
scheme and potentially entering the PPF and his preference for alternative death benefits, 
which Merlin says was very important to him, it still considered the advice was suitable as it 
address his objectives.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, noting that Merlins role was to 
provide objective advice not to put in place what Mr G mightve thought he wanted. As 
agreement could not be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Merlin's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Merlin should 
have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Gs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Merlin said in its suitability report that it was unlikely and not guaranteed that a personal 
pension could achieve the returns needed to replace the guaranteed benefits Mr G was 
giving up. And it had to therefore assume that by transferring, over the long term, Mr G 
would receive a lower income. Given the primary purpose of a pension is to provide income 
to the holder in retirement, this would suggest, as Merlin acknowledged Mr G was likely to be 
worse off, that a transfer wasnt in his interests. But Merlin says Mr G did not want 
guaranteed benefits and there were other reasons that meant a transfer was suitable.
Merlin says Mr G and his adviser approached it wanting to transfer his DB scheme benefits. 
The suitability report said that he wanted to transfer the value of his pension for flexibility and 
to achieve alternative death benefits. And it went on to say, taking these other reasons for 
transferring into account, it was happy to facilitate this for you. 
Before I go on to address these reasons for transferring in more detail, firstly, I cant say with 
certainty that any thoughts Mr G had about transferring before contacting Merlin hadnt been 
influenced by discussions hed already had with the financial adviser it has referenced. 
Merlin recorded that Mr G had a low attitude to risk and, although he held other pensions, I 
cant see that he had a great deal of relevant decision-making experience relating to the 
management of a pension of this size and importance. So, it is possible that flexibility, 
control and alternative death benefits  generic features of personal pensions  were 
suggested to him as potential benefits rather than being something he wanted. In any event 
though, Merlins role was not to facilitate a transfer nor was it one of wish fulfilment or to put 
in place what Mr G mightve thought he wanted when seeking advice. It was to give him 
objective advice about what was in his best interests. 
The fact-find recorded that Mr G expected to retire at age 67, but said he hoped to do so at 
60. But it also made reference to him instead potentially reducing his working hours from age 
60 and expecting to need an income of £10,000 per year from his pensions at that age. And Merlin said Mr G wanted flexibility in order to meet these aims. But I cant see that Mr G had 
a strong need for a variable income, and this was more a nice to have. 
Under the BSPS2 and the PPF, Mr G couldve taken pension benefits at age 60. It is true 
that these wouldve been subject to actuarial reductions. But that was to reflect the fact that 
benefits wouldve been payable for longer than if he waited until his normal retirement age. 
The analysis that Merlin carried out appears to have only considered the benefits that Mr G 
couldve received under the BSPS and the PPF. Even though remaining in the BSPS, as it 
was, wasnt an option, details of the BSPS2 were known and events that had happened to 
that point indicated that the BSPS2 would be going ahead. And I think that was a failing by 
Merlin. But that notwithstanding, I dont think, based on what Ive seen, that Mr G needed to 
transfer to achieve the recorded income objective from age 60. 
Merlins analysis said that, from age 60, under the PPF, Mr G couldve taken an income of 
£7,252 per year. Or he couldve taken tax-free cash of £39,287 and a reduced annual 
pension of £5,439. And while, I cant say with certainty, because Merlin didnt carry out the 
relevant analysis, its likely the benefits under the BSPS2 wouldve been broadly 
comparable.
Both of those annual income figures fell below the £10,000 that it was recorded that Mr G 
expected to need from age 60. But Mr G had no expected need for tax-free cash at 
retirement. So, he couldve taken tax-free cash, retained this and used it to supplement the 
annual income from the pension to meet his expected income needs between age 60 and 
age 67. And then from age 67 hed have continued to receive his guaranteed income from 
the DB scheme and began receiving his state pension. 
In addition, Mr G had other provisions he could use, to supplement the income from his DB 
scheme from age 60, to meet his stated objective. He held approximately £30,500 in two 
personal pensions, which he couldve accessed flexibly from age 60 to help meet his needs. 
Mr G also had £30,000 in savings, and had surplus income each month, so couldve 
increased this amount before retiring. And he was continuing to contribute to another 
workplace pension at a rate of £2,200 per year. It is reasonable to expect hed have 
continued to build his pension benefits, either through this scheme or with another employer 
if he moved roles, until he retired. And even before accounting for any increases in his 
contributions or growth, it was likely that this pension would increase in value by in excess of 
£15,000 before Mr G reached age 60, giving him another pot from which he could potentially 
take benefits to meet his needs until age 67, when hed begin receiving his state pension.
Merlin said that Mr G expected he and Mrs G would need an income of £15,000 from age 
67. And that this would be met from their state pensions and Mrs Gs DB scheme. But details 
of Mrs Gs DB scheme were not gathered. So, how much it would provide was unconfirmed. 
It appears though that the benefits Mr G couldve taken from the BSPS2 or the PPF, which 
wouldve been guaranteed, when added to their state pensions would have been sufficient to 
meet their recorded needs from age 67. Mrs Gs DB scheme may well have then provided 
further income, in excess of their needs. But I think its rarely the case that people complain 
of having too much money. And by remaining in the DB scheme Mr G would have had a 
higher safeguarded income. 
So, I dont think Mr G needed to transfer to achieve these objectives that Merlin recorded. 
But by doing so he was exposing his pension fund to the volatilities of the investment 
markets. So, he was putting his otherwise safeguarded DB scheme pension income at 
unnecessary risk. I dont think that was in his best interests, particularly given his low attitude 
to risk.Im also conscious that Mr G was only 52 at the time of the advice  over seven years away 
from when he thought he might like to take benefits from his pension. His circumstances, 
objectives or aims couldve changed over the years that followed. I also dont think his plans 
for age 60 were finalised  given he indicated he expected in fact to work to age 67. I dont 
doubt that Mr G liked the idea of potentially retiring early. I think, when asked, most people 
would say they would like to do so. But, when it had come to it, he mayve felt differently or 
opted not to retire early. And overall, I think it was too soon for Mr G to make an irreversible 
decision to transfer out of his DB scheme. Particularly when he had the option of joining the 
BSPS2, which, when combined with his other provisions, wouldve likely allowed him to meet 
his expected needs. And because by joining it he would retain the option to transfer out at a 
later date if his circumstances required it.
Merlin says the lump sum death benefits afforded by a personal pension, and the option of 
being able to leave his pension to his family on his death, appealed to and were important to 
Mr G. But Merlins priority shouldve been to advise Mr G about what was best for his 
retirement.
Mr Gs DB scheme provided a spouses pension which couldve been useful to Mrs G and 
was guaranteed and not dependent on investment performance. Merlin has said that Mr G 
didnt think this was particularly valuable. But while the CETV figure would no doubt have 
appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer 
was always likely to be different. It wouldve been impacted by investment performance and 
reduced by any income Mr G drew in his lifetime. And given Merlins recommendation was 
based on Mr G expecting to draw a significant amount from this in the early years of 
retirement and that Mr G was still relatively young and was recorded as being in good health 
the fund was likely to be significantly depleted by the time it came to be passed on, if not 
utilised entirely. So, it may not have provided the legacy Mr G mightve thought it would.
If Mr G was concerned about leaving a legacy, insurance was an option. Merlin has said that 
this was considered and has provided evidence it obtained details of the potential cost of a 
whole of life policy for a sum equal to the CETV. But it said in the suitability report that Mr G 
didnt want to commit to paying these premiums. Notwithstanding that Merlins role was to 
advise Mr G about what was in his best interests, basing the quote on the transfer value of 
Mr Gs pension benefits essentially assumed that he would pass away on day one following 
the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Rather the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr G 
how much he would ideally like to leave to his family, which also wouldve served to illustrate 
that this wasnt in fact just a generic objective. And even though the whole of life premium 
appeared to be affordable based on Mr Gs level of disposable income, this couldve also 
been explored on a term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer meant it was in 
Mr Gs best interests. And ultimately Merlin should not have encouraged Mr G to prioritise 
the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement. 
Merlin says Mr G was worried about his pension benefits, the prospect of these entering the 
PPF and him losing the option of taking these flexibly. I dont doubt that Mr G was likely to 
have been worried by what had happened to that point regarding the DB scheme. The 
consultation was likely to have been unsettling and he may well have had negative feelings 
about his former employer and mightve thought moving his pension away from it was 
appropriate. I think that would have been a very natural emotional response to what was 
happening. But again, Merlins role was to give impartial, objective advice.
There had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward the BSPS2 being 
established as an alternative. Which was expected to provide better benefits than the PPF and still provide Mr G the option to transfer closer to retirement. Merlin has said that the 
BSPS2 was not confirmed. But I think it is overstating the chance of it not being put in place. 
The restructuring of the BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the point 
it gave advice. Actions had been agreed with the pensions regulator and carried out as 
scheduled  not least a significant lump sum payment into the BSPS which enabled the 
provision of improved transfer value quotations. And members had been sent time to 
choose letters, with opting into the BSPS2 one of the options offered to them. So, based on 
what had happened to that point, I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were 
confident the BSPS2 would go ahead.
But even if this hadnt happened, the PPF still provided Mr G with a guaranteed income and 
the option of accessing his benefits early. As Ive said, I think Mr G couldve met his 
objectives, if they were indeed correct, by taking benefits through the PPF. So, entering the 
PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held 
about this meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Gs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
Merlin has said it believes Mr G made an informed decision to transfer. And I can see that 
Merlin gave information about risks involved in a transfer, when it made its recommendation. 
But ultimately, it advised Mr G to transfer. And I think he relied on that advice. If Merlin, a 
professional adviser whose expertise he had been recommended, had explained why it 
wasnt in his best interests to transfer I think hed have accepted that advice.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr G received from Merlin was 
unsuitable.
Im conscious that the advice was given when the deadline for deciding to opt into the 
BSPS2 was approaching. And the suitability report was dated the day of that deadline. But if, 
as Merlin says, Mr G had indicated on 7 December 2017 at the time of the fact-find that he 
was concerned about entering the PPF and losing the option of flexibility, I think it couldve 
suggested he opt into the BSPS2 in the interim, before the deadline, pending it providing full 
advice. Because by opting into the BSPS2, Mr G wouldve retained the ability to transfer out 
of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think, based 
on what Merlin had recorded, it couldve made this suggestion to Mr G. And again, I think 
hed have likely taken on board Merlins suggestion, given that he came to it for advice. So, if 
Mr G had received suitable advice not to transfer, I think hed likely have ended up in the 
BSPS2. And I think Merlin should compensate him on this basis.
Our Investigator recommended that Merlin also pay Mr G £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. Merlin has questioned whether Mr G was likely to have been 
distressed. But I dont doubt he has likely been caused some distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Merlin to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. Merlin must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Merlin should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr G and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Merlin 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, I understand Mr G has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. 
So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Gs 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Merlin should:
calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
this DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr G accepts Merlins offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr G for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr G as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Merlin may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Merlin should pay Mr G £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Merlin Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I also recommend that 
Merlin Financial Services Limited pays Mr G the balance.
If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Merlin Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman