DRN-2533664
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as S have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly
turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were impacted by the
Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr H, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
S hold a business interruption insurance policy with UKI. S contacted UKI to claim on their 
policy after they were impacted by the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. 
UKI said the policy didnt cover Ss claim under either the extension for disease or 
extension for prevention of access. It said this was because Covid-19 hadnt caused 
damage to property, and while the policy did cover interruption or interference to business as 
a result of a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on that list. 
S indicated that they thought their claim should be considered under the contingency for riot, 
civil commotion, labour and political disturbances and strikes. UKI said this would require 
damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. 
As S remained unhappy with UKIs response, they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld, as he thought
UKI had turned down Ss claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He didnt
think Covid-19 had caused damage to property and he also didnt think Covid-19 was one of
the diseases covered by the disease extension. 
S disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They 
thought the loss their business had suffered should be considered damage. They said they 
didnt think the policy specified that there needed to be physical damage in order for cover to 
apply as loss of income is described as an item in the Policy Schedule and thats not 
something that can be damaged physically. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on S. But I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if UKI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ss claim.
Loss of gross income
This section of the policy says:
In the event of the Business carried on by You at the Premises being interrupted 
or interfered with as a direct result of Damage, for which liability has been 
admitted under Section 1 which results in a loss of Gross Income We will 
indemnify You up to the Sum Insured stated in the Schedule in respect of:
a the amount by which Gross Income earned during the
Indemnity Period shall in consequence of the Damage fall
short of the Standard Gross Income;
In order for this section to provide cover, UKI would need to have accepted a claim for 
damage under Section 1 of the policy (business contents).
The relevant part of Section 1 (business contents) of Ss policy says:
We will Indemnify You in the event of Damage to the items described in the 
Schedule whilst in the Business Portion or Home caused by any of the following 
Contingencies:
Damage is defined in the policy as Loss, destruction or damage. 
S believe that the contingency Riot, civil commotion, labour and political disturbances and 
strikes applies to their claim, as they think the pandemic is a political disturbance. However, 
whether or not thats the case, I still dont think this would provide cover for Ss claim. 
Section 1 (business contents) of the Schedule says:
DESCRIPTION                  SUM INSURED
Computer Equipment        £2,000    
All Other Contents            £500
It is this part of the Schedule that applies to Section 1, rather than loss of income which is 
described under Section 5 (business interruption). And I think its clear that there needs to be 
damage to either computer equipment or other contents in order for a claim to be made 
under Section 1 of the policy. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage, as defined in the policy, to 
Ss computer equipment or other contents. As such, I dont think theres cover under this 
section of the policy as Ss business wasnt interrupted as a direct result of damage for 
which liability had been accepted under Section 1.  
Extension for Prevention of Access
The policy contains an extension for prevention of access which provides cover for business 
interruption as a result of:
Damage to property in the vicinity of the Premises arising from any of the 
Contingencies in Section 1 and as a result of which use of the Premises is 
hindered or access thereto is prevented (whether the Premises or Your other 
property is damaged or not).To provide cover, this extension would require damage, as defined in the policy, to property 
in the vicinity of Ss premises - even if Ss own premises werent damaged - which hindered 
or prevented access to Ss premises. As I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 
caused damage to property in the vicinity of Ss premises, I dont think this extension 
provides cover for Ss claim.
Extension for Murder, Suicide or Disease
S dont seem to dispute that this extension doesnt provide cover for their claim. However, 
for completeness, I dont think this extension provides cover for Ss claim either, because 
Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases covered by the policy. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to S, but I dont think I can fairly 
require UKI to pay their claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman