DRN-3808225
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (Clydesdale) responded to a claim he made under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
In January 2021, Mr B ordered a new wet room from a supplier, who Ill call X. The 
installation of the wet room was included in the price X gave to Mr B. To pay for the cost of 
the wet room and installation, Mr B took out a fixed sum loan with Clydesdale. 
Shortly after the wet room was installed, Mr B raised several concerns with X about the 
quality of the work. Amongst other things, Mr B told X that some of the wall tiles were 
cracked, others were coming away from the wall and that a grab handle was loose. 
X agreed to inspect the work carried out in Mr Bs wet room in July 2021. After X and Mr B 
exchanged several emails, X agreed to send him a cheque for £500, in respect of the repairs 
needed to the wall tiles. Mr B didnt accept Xs offer and in September 2021, raised a section 
75 claim with Clydesdale. 
Mr B sent details of his concerns about the wet room to Clydesdale, along with photographs 
of the work X had carried out. But, despite starting to take repayments towards the fixed sum 
loan at the end of 2021, Clydesdale didnt respond to Mr Bs section 75 claim. In the 
meantime, Mr B had asked various organisations, along with our service for help. 
Clydesdale reviewed Mr Bs section 75 claim in March 2022. They said they couldnt look 
into things further, as Mr B had taken legal action. And in their final response to Mr Bs 
complaint, Clydesdale said they were always due to take the repayments towards the fixed 
sum loan, whether or not Mr B was satisfied with the wet room. However, Clydesdale 
acknowledged they had taken too long to respond to Mr B and paid £150 to Mr B for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Clydesdales response. He said he hadnt taken legal action and the 
other organisations he had contacted, hadnt looked into the work carried out by X. So, Mr B 
asked to continue with the case hed brought to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and after Clydesdale offered to pay 
Mr B a further £250, she concluded they had treated him fairly. She said Clydesdale hadnt 
made an error by starting to take the repayments for the fixed sum loan, and that the award 
for distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B was fair. The investigator didnt make a 
finding on the quality of the installation work by X. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and said his section 75 claim should be 
reviewed. He also said X had provided goods of an unsatisfactory standard, so they 
shouldnt have taken payments towards the fixed sum loan. 
The investigator didnt change her conclusions and Mr Bs case has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
I sent Mr B and Clydesdale my provisional decision on this case, on 1 November 2022. I 
explained why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is 
included below:
Having looked at all the correspondence between Mr B, X, Clydesdale and the investigator, I 
can see where confusion has arisen about Mr Bs section 75 claim. At some points, Mr B has 
referred to possible legal action and had started a claim with another ombudsman scheme. 
But, I think Mr B was trying to get help from whoever he could to address his concerns. 
I say this because I can see that Mr B didnt actually take any legal action and didnt get any 
further than registering a case with the other ombudsman scheme. And Ive seen where that 
case was closed by the other scheme without investigation. 
Neither Clydesdale nor X have provided any documents to show where Mr Bs concerns 
about the installation have been investigated elsewhere. Overall, I think Mr B is able to bring 
his complaint to us, about the way Clydesdale have responded to his section 75 claim. 
So Ive gone on to consider if the other conditions are met, for us to take that complaint 
forward. 
Section 75 
This case is about a fixed sum loan Mr B took out with Clydesdale, which is a regulated 
financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
The relevant piece of legislation is section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This 
provides protection for consumers for goods and services bought using credit. Under section 
75, subject to certain criteria, consumers who use a fixed sum loan to pay for goods and 
services, have an equal claim against the finance provider, for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
In Mr Bs case, he says section 75 means he has an equal claim against Clydesdale, 
because the installation of the wet room by X is of poor quality. So, with what Ive said in 
mind, I agree that Mr B was able to ask Clydesdale to consider if he has a claim under 
section 75 of the CCA. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
Under the CRA, there is an implied term written into contracts that goods supplied need to 
be of satisfactory, quality fit for their intended purpose and as described. It says traders must 
perform the service with reasonable care and skill. The CRA also sets out what remedies are 
available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods or services contract are not met. 
Mr B has told us about several problems with the wet room supplied and fitted by X. He says 
some of the tiles are chipped or cracked, and that others are coming away from the wall. 
Mr B also says that some of the pipework needs repairing. To support what Mr B says, hes 
sent us several photographs of the wet room and the areas he says need repair. Mr B has 
also sent us several videos with commentary where he summarises the faults with the 
installation. 
I have carefully considered the information Mr B has sent to us and I can see that there is 
damage to some of the tiles and where other tiles have come away from the wall. And on the 
face of it, I agree that there are repairs needed to the wet room. So, Ive thought about the other evidence available to decide if this means theres been a breach of contract by X. 
The notes provided by Mr B show email exchanges he had with X, when he complained 
about the fitting of the wet room. I can see that X sent an installer to Mr Bs house in July 
2021 and it was agreed that a repair was needed. This is supported in an email from X to 
Mr B, where an offer is made of £500, for Mr B to organise a repair. 
Neither Clydesdale nor X have provided a copy of the inspection report. But, I think the 
correspondence between Mr B and X goes some way to show that the supplier agreed that 
something needed to be done to put matters right in the wet room. Mr B has explained that X 
didnt arrange a follow up repair, and I think this is consistent with what hes shown us as to 
Xs solution to make an offer to resolve his concerns. 
In addition to the photographs, videos and correspondence Mr B has provided, he has also 
sent us quotes from two different tradespeople, to make the repairs to the wet room. Ive 
thought carefully about the work detailed on those quotes and I think they both address the 
faults Mr B initially brought to the attention of X in 2021, and then Clydesdale in 2022. 
I also think the repair quotes are broadly similar, where they both allow or include the supply 
of replacement tiles. So, I think the quotes obtained by Mr B support his argument that the 
repair work is needed in the wet room. And this is further strengthened by the credible and 
consistent evidence provided by Mr B. 
On balance, I think the evidence shows the quality of the wet room installation was not of a 
standard that a reasonable person would say is satisfactory. I think this means there was a 
breach of contract by X, which Mr B is able to hold Clydesdale responsible for. 
Where theres a breach of contract under a services contract, consumers have certain rights. 
They may have the right to repeat performance as well as the right to a price reduction. 
Consumers can also seek other remedies. 
Repeat performance should be carried out within a reasonable amount of time and without 
significant inconvenience caused to the consumer. Consumers can ask for an appropriate 
price reduction if that doesnt happen, or if the repeat performance is impossible. 
I think X had a significant amount of time to put right the problems with the wet room, before 
Mr B raised his section 75 claim. I also think Mr B has tried to work with X, to organise a 
repair. But, X hasnt so far come forward with a repair date, despite reviewing the work their 
installer carried out. 
In these circumstances, where Ive concluded that Clydesdale need to offer Mr B a remedy, 
Ive looked at the quotes provided by Mr B to put matters right. Having done so, I think the 
costs are consistent, given the work detailed within each quote. 
After considering everything, I think it would be fair for Clydesdale to pay for the repair cost 
of the wet room. So, I think Clydesdale should pay Mr B £2,918, based on one of the quotes 
he has provided. 
The start of the loan repayments 
Mr B says that Clydesdale started to take loan repayments from his bank account, even 
though he hadnt signed a completion certificate for the work carried out by X. However, 
Clydesdale say there isnt a requirement for them to obtain a completion certificate before 
activating the fixed sum loan. Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Bs fixed sum loan and on the first page 
under the heading Your loan, it says: 
After we have accepted and signed this agreement and you have received the 
goods or services purchased, we will pay the loan amount to the retailer. 
And, under Repayments, it says: 
Your first repayment date is one month from the date that we pay the loan to the 
retailer. 
I understand Mr Bs argument, in that he didnt think it was fair of Clydesdale to ask him to 
start paying for the wet room, when he was unhappy with the quality of some of the work. 
But, the materials had been delivered and the installation had taken place, by the time 
Clydesdale put Mr B on notice that they had paid the funds to X. Overall, I think the terms 
and conditions fairly explained when Mr B could have expected to start to make the loan 
repayments. 
Clydesdale have explained that while they were investigating part of Mr Bs complaint, they 
temporarily suspended the loan repayments until March 2022, when they were due to start in 
December 2021. I think this allowed more time for Mr B to put his concerns to Clydesdale 
and for Clydesdale to look at when would appropriate to start the repayments. 
Having reviewed all the information, I think Clydesdale treated Mr B fairly, when they told 
him they had paid X for the wet room and when they started to take the repayments due 
under the loan agreement. So, I dont think Clydesdale needs to take any further action 
regarding this part of Mr Bs complaint. 
Distress and inconvenience 
The statements for Mr Bs fixed sum loan show Clydesdale paid £150 directly to his bank 
account on 12 May 2022. Clydesdales final response to Mr Bs complaint says that offer 
was in light of the distress caused, because of their delay to address the section 75 claim. 
Since Mr Bs case has been with our service, Clydesdale offered an additional £250, which 
has yet to be paid to him. 
I dont think Clydesdale dealt fully with Mr Bs section 75 claim. Hes explained to us that he 
is disabled and the purpose of buying the wet room from X, was to enhance his 
independence. So, I agree that not having a wet room of satisfactory quality and the delay by 
Clydesdale has caused him distress and inconvenience. 
That said, I think the majority of Mr Bs concerns were caused by X, when he was attempting 
to get them to put things right. I think Clydesdale are responsible for the delay in giving Mr B 
an outcome to his section 75 claim. So, its on that basis where Ive considered if 
Clydesdales offer is fair and reasonable. 
In all the circumstances, I think Clydesdales total offer of £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience they have caused to Mr B is fair. So, I dont think Clydesdale should increase 
the award theyve offered and its now for them, to pay Mr B the remaining £250. 
Adverse information 
The statements provided by Clydesdale suggest that Mr B has kept up the repayments to 
the fixed sum loan. So, Im unaware of any missed payment information about the loan that 
Clydesdale may have passed to credit reference agencies. But given the delay around Mr Bs section 75 claim and the uncertainty created around 
paying for work that he thought was of unsatisfactory quality, I think its fair for Clydesdale to 
remove any adverse information they may have recorded. I think this should cover the time 
from when the loan repayments started, to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Both Clydesdale and Mr B responded to the provisional decision and accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional directions about how this complaint should fairly 
be resolved. So, I see no reason to come to a different conclusion.
Putting things right
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance should: 
1. pay £2,918 for the repairs to the wet room, based on the quotes Mr B has provided; 
2. pay the additional £250 to Mr B for the distress and inconvenience caused; and 
3. remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies, about the 
fixed sum loan from inception to the date of settlement of this complaint. 
Clydesdale must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Clydesdale deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr B, they should provide Mr B with a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities 
if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman