DRN-2922186
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Vehicle Credit Limited (VCL or the lender) was irresponsible 
to have agreed car finance for him in September 2016. Mr P also says he was 
misinformed about the agreement and that VCL didnt treat him fairly when he fell into 
arrears.
What happened
 In September 2016 VCL entered into a hire-purchase agreement with Mr P, through an 
intermediary, in order for him to acquire a car. The cash price of the car was £7,844 
and Mr P paid a deposit of £100. He borrowed the balance of £7,744 which cost £5,170 
in interest and charges. The agreement was for a total of £13,014. This was to be 
repaid by weekly instalments of £83 over three years, with a final payment of £107. 
(Ive rounded all figures to the nearest pound.)
Mr P also had the option of voluntarily terminating the agreement at any point and 
returning the car. This option would limit Mr Ps total liability to half the amount owing, 
in other words £6,507, if hed taken reasonable care of the car.
I understand Mr P missed payments from January 2017 and made an arrangement to 
repay these alongside his usual weekly payment throughout that year. He continued to 
miss payments with many returned direct debits throughout 2018 and made no payments 
for several months. Further payment arrangements were put in place but Mr P was 
unable to maintain them. This continued into 2019. Eventually, the outstanding balance of 
£4,516 was sold to a third party debt collector in early 2020. I understand that Mr P still 
has the car and has paid just over £8,500 (including his deposit) for the use of it from 
September 2016 to date.
Mr P says VCL was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him. He also says that he 
was told before entering into the agreement that he could refinance at a lower interest 
rate (and lower monthly repayments) after 18 months. Mr P also complains that VCL 
didnt treat him fairy in early 2018 when he was unable to work due to ill health  he 
says the lender increased his repayments to cover his arrears, which wasnt helpful.
VCL disagrees that it was irresponsible to enter into an agreement with Mr P. It says he 
met the minimum lending requirement and that his credit was appropriately approved. It 
also says it couldnt comment on anything Mr P might have been told by the selling 
dealership which wasnt written into the credit agreement. Finally, VCL says that it acted 
fairly in administering Mr Ps account.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint and didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. They concluded that VCL ought to have looked into Mr Ps circumstances more 
fully before lending to him but that it wouldnt have found anything to suggest it shouldnt 
go ahead with the finance at the time.
Mr P disagreed with the recommendation and asked for his complaint to come to 
an ombudsman to review and resolve and the complaint came to me. I issued a 
provisional decision in May 2021 explaining that I was minded to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint because I found VCL was irresponsible to have agreed finance for him. 
Mr P agreed with my provisional decision. VCL has not responded. This is my 
final decision on the matter and will be legally binding on both parties if Mr P 
accepts it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. These included, for example, the Consumer Credit Act 
1974, its revisions in 2015 and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit 
Handbook (CONC) which set out regulations and guidance for lenders such as VCL.
VCL hasnt commented on my provisional conclusions or my proposed redress, nor has 
it provided any new information for me to consider. Having reviewed the matter again, I 
havent found any reason to depart from my provisional conclusions or depart from my 
proposed redress. For completeness, Ill set out below my reasons for upholding Mr Ps 
complaint.  
As Id said in my provisional decision, the credit to buy the car was granted by VCL 
under a hire purchase agreement meaning Mr P would own the car when the credit had 
been repaid. VCL was the owner until that point and Mr P was, in essence, paying for 
the use of it.
VCL needed to check that Mr P could afford to meet his repayments sustainably before 
agreeing credit for him. In other words, it needed to check he could repay the credit out of 
his usual means without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial 
difficulty or other adverse consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the 
nature of the credit and Mr Ps circumstances, and VCL needed to take proper account of 
the information it gathered.
VCL also needed to take a proportionate and considered approach to borrowers 
arrears difficulties. So when Mr P fell into arrears, VCL should have given him the 
opportunity to repay the arrears, potentially deferring payment or accepting token 
payments for a time.
The overarching requirement is that VCL needed to pay due regard to Mr Ps interests 
and treat him fairly.
Bearing all of this in mind, the main questions I need to consider in coming to a decision 
on this complaint are as follows:
Was the agreement mis-represented to Mr P, in other words was he given 
false information about it which persuaded him to purchase the car on finance 
from VCL?
did VCL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
his application to satisfy itself that he would be able to make his 
repayments in a sustainable manner? If not, what would a proportionate 
check have shown?
Overall, did VCL treat Mr P fairly and with due regard to his interests?Mr P says he was given incorrect information about the agreement: I was told that I could 
refinance this agreement half way through after a year and half to a different vehicle and 
was advised that this will reduce my monthly repayments and the interest rate and will also 
improve my credit rating. Unfortunately this has not happened as there is no car dealer 
that I have come across with that deals with  Vehicle Credit. Mr P says this was one of 
the reasons he entered into the agreement and says My plan was to keep this agreement 
for a year and a half then to reduce interest and monthly repayments. He says he did 
eventually find a dealer who worked with VCL but didnt change the agreement because 
he wasnt offered a lower interest rate or lower monthly repayment.
I can see from VCLs customer contact notes that in April 2018 Mr P enquired about 
reduced monthly payments as he wouldnt be working for several months due to a 
disablement. A few months later he was advised that VCL wouldnt consider refinancing 
the agreement because of his arrears but would consider an early settlement figure if he 
was offered credit elsewhere.
VCL says that it didnt tell Mr P it would refinance his agreement at a lower rate after 18 
months and says that it couldnt comment on what the selling dealership might have told 
him in this regard. I would remind VCL that as the owner of the car bought from the 
dealership, it was responsible for any negotiations the dealership had with Mr P, including 
advertisements, before he entered into the agreement.
Clearly, I cant know exactly what was discussed at the dealership before Mr P agreed to 
buy the car with finance from VCL or how the agreement was presented to him. I can 
understand why, considering how events unfolded, Mr P now feels he wasnt fully 
informed about all aspects of the agreement. However, I am not considering this point 
further and havent made any finding on whether or not VCL got something wrong in this 
regard. As I will go on to explain, even if I concluded that everything happened as it should 
have at the point of sale, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint because I think VCL was 
irresponsible to have agreed credit for him at that time.
VCL says that it checked Mr Ps ability to meet his repayments in a number of ways 
including the information he gave about his income and expenses and his credit 
history. Mr P said he was self-employed with a monthly income of £1,767 which he 
explained was an average estimate. He provided VCL with bank statements, recent 
invoices and his current contract, which I note seems to be a zero hours contact 
signed in June 2016. According to VCLs lending policy this should have required 
Mr P to evidence six months continual work.
VCL says it verified Mr Ps income using his bank statements from the months of May 
and August 2016. I understand its lending policy at the time required self-employed 
applicants to provide three months bank statements or three years accounts. VCL says 
that Mr P was unable to provide transaction history for June or July, but hed explained 
that he was out of work for a time and went abroad, coming back into employment in 
August.
Its clear from the bank statements that Mr Ps weekly income varied  he worked as a 
courier and he was paid more for same day deliveries. The minimum weekly payment 
shown on his bank statements for August was about £500, with an average of about £700. 
This is gross income however and, being self-employed, Mr P presumably needed to pay 
tax and national insurance from this.
Mr P gave his monthly expenses as £679. I note this didnt include an amount for rent or 
existing credit commitments. It also didnt include his business expenses, the largest of 
which was the hire of his delivery vehicle which ranged upwards of £200 a week, along with fuel costs of about £500 a month. These costs are clearly identifiable on his bank 
statements.
VCL provided a copy of Mr Ps credit file and says that, although his current account was 
over the limit and he had two mail orders in arrears, he met its lending criteria at the time. 
VCL says that it is a sub-prime lender, in other words will consider credit for people who 
have struggled to manage previous credit. I can see from this record that Mr P had 
problems with his finances over the years  he incurred a county court judgment in 2012 
and has at least six defaulted accounts from before this time. It doesnt seem as though 
any of these debts had been repaid. VCL has mentioned the arrears on two accounts  
these were recorded as delinquent from late 2015 and I can see that Mr P hadnt made 
any recent payments to the accounts.
Taking all of this together, I think VCL had enough information to show that it wasnt likely 
Mr P would be able to meet his repayments on this finance without difficulty. It was likely 
he wouldnt have enough to cover the repayments and he seemed to be having ongoing 
problems making inroads into his existing debt. Ive concluded therefore that VCL was 
irresponsible to have agreed credit for Mr P given the information it had, and I dont think 
further information about his circumstances would have provided any reassurance. And 
so I am upholding his complaint in this regard.
Ive also considered whether VCL treated Mr P unfairly when he fell into arrears. I can 
see from the customer contact notes that Mr P struggled with repayments a few months 
into the agreement and missed payments for several months in the summer of 2018. He 
agreed a repayment plan with VCL to pay £110 a week from October 2018 to clear the 
arrears alongside his regular payments but didnt manage to keep to this and by May 
2019 had stopped paying.
I dont think VCL did anything wrong here in providing Mr P with the opportunity to clear 
his arrears. What isnt clear to me is whether Mr P was given the option to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement. It seems to me that by July 2018 hed paid more than half the 
amount owing under the agreement - £6,507. The contact notes from early 2019 mention 
voluntary surrender and state that Mr P should realise that the vehicle is not affordable for 
him. It seems Mr P agreed to surrender the car in early 2019 but later said that hed 
rather find a way to retain it, given the amount hed paid so far. So Im not sure if Mr P 
would have chosen to voluntarily terminate the agreement, even had he been given this 
option.
Altogether, I havent seen enough to conclude that VCL didnt treat Mr P fairly when he 
fell into arrears. But, as Ive explained, I do think it was irresponsible to enter into the 
agreement with him in the first place and it now needs to take steps to put things right 
for him.
Putting things right
As I explained in my provisional decision, this Services general approach to redress in 
cases where weve found that credit for a vehicle has been irresponsibly agreed is that the 
borrower shouldnt have to pay any interest or charges associated with the agreement. So, 
for example, where an agreement has run to term and the borrower has made all the 
payments and owns the car, then fair redress might be a refund of interest and charges 
paid (plus compensatory interest). Where an agreement has ended before running to term 
and the lender has taken back the car, for example, fair redress might be a refund of all 
payments made with a proportion retained by the lender to reflect the borrowers use of 
the car.In this case, I understand that the agreement hasnt yet been terminated. Mr P is still 
using the car and has paid about £8,500 in total, more than the cash price of the car at 
£7,844. The outstanding balance of £4,516 had been sold to a third-party debt collector.
I think the fairest thing to do in the circumstances of this case is to end the agreement and 
allow Mr P to retain the car with nothing further to pay. I think he should be refunded the 
payments he made above the cash price of the car, in other words all payments above 
£7,844, along with 8% simple interest per annum from the date the overpayments 
happened to the date of refund.
As mentioned, I understand VCL sold the outstanding debt to a third party debt collector. 
VCL will need to ensure Mr P isnt pursued for the debt which may involve buying the debt 
back or paying an amount to the current debt owner. VCL should also remove any adverse 
information about this agreement from Mr Ps credit file, once settled. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about Vehicle 
Credit Limited and it needs to put thing right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman