DRN-4388897
The complaint
Mx D complains about the service provided by Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited and 
the way it communicated with him about his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mx D took out an insurance policy for his car, underwritten by Aioi. He was then contacted 
and asked to provide some further information, in particular about a previous claim that he 
had not mentioned when taking out the policy.
Mx D provided the information requested and explained the circumstances regarding the 
previous claim. The policy was amended and an additional premium charged, which Mx D 
paid.
Mx D was unhappy about the way Aioi dealt with him; he said he had to chase for replies to 
his emails, and had received emails which were bullying and threatening. When he 
complained about this Aioi said it had needed to request further information from him but 
accepted there had been some delay and poor communication. It offered compensation of 
£100 but Mx D didnt accept the offer and referred the complaint to this Service.
Our investigator said Mx D hadnt intentionally misled Aioi and did what he could to resolve 
things when the issue came to light. And he had to chase Aioi for replies and was very upset 
by the way Aioi dealt with him. But the investigator said the compensation offered was 
reasonable and didnt think Aioi needed to do any more.
Mx D is very unhappy with this. He says he didnt get replies to his emails, and then received 
an aggressive email threatening to cancel his policy. And he says if this isnt addressed, it 
will happen again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers will ask questions and obtain the information they need to decide whether to provide 
cover for someone and, if so, how much to charge for it. Those are decisions for the insurer 
to make and its not for me to tell Aioi what insurance it should provide. But I can consider 
whether it treated Mx D fairly.
When Aioi checked Mx Ds policy there was some information that wasnt correct. It was 
reasonable to ask Mx D for more information about this. The issue here is that when Mx D 
provided information he didnt receives prompt replies and had to chase Aioi. He also 
received an email threatening to cancel the policy, which he found threatening.
If Aioi didnt have all the information it needed, then it was entitled to cancel the policy  and  
needed to explain this to Mx D. But given that he had provided information when requested, I 
can see why he would have been upset by the correspondence he received.
Mx D didnt accept the compensation offer. He says he wants action to prevent this 
happening again. This Service is not the regulator. Where something has gone wrong, my 
role is only to consider what action needs to be taken to put things right for the individual 
affected  in this case, Mx D. He hasnt suffered a financial loss and the harm caused to him 
was the distress and inconvenience he suffered. 
As Ive explained, I appreciate he was very upset by what happened. But Aioi did sort things 
out, apologised and offered compensation of £100. Taking into account the level of upset 
caused Im satisfied its offer is fair. So I dont think it needs to do any more, other than pay 
that compensation. 
My final decision
Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mx D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman