DRN-3811510
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about delays and poor communication when Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) arranged repairs to their kitchen floor, under their buildings 
insurance policy.
I will refer to Mr S in my decision for ease of reading.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr S says he noticed a section of kitchen flooring had become damaged, 
and sunk, under where his washing machine was positioned. He contacted Admiral to make 
a claim under his buildings insurance policy. Mr S says he has made many calls to Admiral 
up to July 2022, when he submitted his last complaint. He says his calls werent returned 
and as of July the repairs were yet to be completed. 
Mr S says hes had a damaged kitchen floor for over seven months. Hes had to place his 
washing machine outside and connect it via a hose pipe for this period. He says this has 
been stressful for him and his wife and meant his grandchild and his dog had to be kept out 
of the kitchen, because of the damaged floor. 
Admiral says it responded to Mr Ss complaints. It offered £350 compensation in total for its 
poor standard of communication and delays. It says the work was planned in for completion 
in mid-August 2022.
Mr S didnt think the compensation offered was fair and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld his complaint. He thought the delay in arranging repairs resulted in 
significant inconvenience for Mr and Mrs S. In addition to the frustration and distress from 
Admirals poor communication and the disruption it caused. Our investigator says Admiral 
should pay a further £250 compensation. 
Admiral disagreed. It says the claim was raised in mid-March 2022, so the delay wasnt as 
long as indicated. Admiral thought the compensation it offered was fair and indicated a 
series of storm events contributed toward delays with its suppliers. Because of this it asked 
for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Let me explain. 
There is no dispute that the damage to Mr Ss kitchen floor is covered. I can see from his 
policy terms that it does provide cover in these circumstances. So, I neednt consider this 
further. 
Mr S says he first contacted Admiral in early January 2022. He describes having made 
numerous phone calls to chase progress up to the end of July, without repairs being 
completed. At this time, he referred his complaint to our service. 
I acknowledge Admirals comments that it appointed a loss adjustor to consider the damage 
claim. From the records provided instructions were sent to its loss adjustor in mid-March 
2022. It says from reviewing its records Mr S called its loss adjustor three times in this 
month. It says these calls were returned. But it says it identified a nine-day delay in 
responding to a call from Mr S in mid-April, for which it apologises. 
Admiral says that its loss adjustor appointed a contractor in late April 2022 to complete the 
repairs. At this point it says the progression of Mr Ss claim slowed. It also says 
communication from this contractor was sporadic. Admiral says it will provide feedback on 
this, but it cant uphold complaints based on the third-parties actions. It also says its loss 
adjustor shouldve been more proactive during April. 
In its complaint responses Admiral says claim progression was limited from April 2022 
onwards. Its loss adjustor had been chasing the contractor for a start date for the repairs. 
But the lack of progression continued. Admiral later apologised for the poor communication 
and confirmed the repair work was due to start in mid-August. 
From the information provided I can see Mr S had to contact Admiral, and its agents, 
numerous times. I dont think this was fair. I agree with Admirals view that its loss adjustor 
couldve been more proactive in making contact. The contractors standard of 
communication was also poor. Its not clear why it took so long for the repairs to be carried 
out. I understand the work took five days once the contractor eventually attended. 
Admiral refers to storms potentially creating backlogs for its contractor. However, it hasnt 
shown that this was the reason the repairs were delayed. Its only suggested this couldve 
been why its contractor didnt attend sooner. 
I note Admirals point that its loss adjustor and contractor were to blame for the delays and 
poor communication. I dont dispute this. But Admiral is responsible, as Mr Ss insurer, to 
arrange for the repairs to be carried out effectively and ensure communication is of a good 
standard. I dont think it achieved this here.   
Mr S describes the damage to his kitchen floor, which left a hole that had some sharp edges. 
He placed a rug over the damaged area as a temporary measure to protect his family and 
pet dog. However, this was in place for a significant period and largely meant keeping his 
dog and grandchild out of the kitchen. Mr S was able to set up a temporary arrangement, 
whereby his washing machine was kept outside and operated via a hose. Im glad Mr S was 
able to still access a washing machine during this time. But I acknowledge the difficulties this 
caused him and his family.  
Mr S says he suffered a family bereavement during the period he was waiting for Admiral to 
arrange the repairs. He says his wife was also distressed by the ongoing mess and 
disruption caused to their kitchen.  
Ive thought about the impact all of this had on Mr S and his family. I dont think Admiral has 
shown that there were avoidable delays that prevented the repairs taking place sooner. The 
damage was identified by Mr S in January 2022 and wasnt repaired until mid-August. This is 
a long time to live with this ongoing disruption. I can understand why Mr and Mrs S were 
distressed by the disruption as well as the inconvenience this caused.
I note Admirals comments that the claim wasnt registered until mid-March 2022. Whereas Mr S says he contacted Admiral at the beginning of January. Admiral thinks the 
compensation it offered is fair considering its view that the claim wasnt raised until March.    
I asked Mr S if he had call records to show when he contacted Admiral. Unfortunately, he 
made calls using a work phone and isnt able to obtain these records. Ive thought about 
what evidence there is to support the date the claim was made. I can see the surveyors 
report confirms the loss date as 4 January 2022. Our investigator called Admiral to ask when 
Mr S made his claim prior to issuing his findings. I can see that Admirals agent confirmed 
this was on 4 January. 
The claim notes dont start until March 2022. However, on the balance of probability, Im 
more persuaded by Mr Ss testimony that he contacted Admiral In January. I dont think hes 
likely to have waited over two months to contact Admiral once he discovered the damaged 
floor. Given the poor standard of communication and claim handling demonstrated here, I 
think its more likely that the claim was ongoing from January. 
Having considered all of this I think a compensation payment is appropriate. Admiral took a 
long time to arrange the repairs. Because of the inconvenience and distress this caused, 
over this prolonged period, I agree with our investigator that a further compensation payment 
is warranted. In these circumstances I think an additional £250 is fair.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
pay Mr and Mrs S an additional £250 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman