DRN-3415707
The complaint and what happened
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund money  just over 
£3,600  he lost when he fell victim to an investment scam. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the three payments  two debit 
card payments and a faster payment sent via internet banking  were so unusual or out of 
character such that they ought to have triggered the banks fraud detection systems. The 
investigator also thought that Halifax couldnt have assisted Mr A in recovering his losses as 
the funds went to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges and the loss occurred when they 
were sent on to the scammer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they are duped into making that payment. The disputed transactions were 
made using Mr As legitimate security credentials, and so they are authorised. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
In relation to the first two  debit card  transactions, I wouldnt have expected 
Halifax to have picked them up as being suspicious solely based on the name of the 
merchants/retailers requesting the payment, given there were no regulator warnings 
about them at the time. Ive then gone on to look at the operation of Mr As account. 
I dont consider any of the three disputed transaction amounts  ranging from £215 to 
£3,184  to be particularly unusual or suspicious based on the account activity such 
that I think Halifax ought to have challenged the payments. I acknowledge that Mr A 
strongly feels otherwise, but Im not persuaded.   
Ive next thought about the recovery of funds once Halifax became aware of the 
situation. In relation to the debit card payments, my understanding is that Mr A sent 
funds to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges before the cryptocurrency was 
transferred on to the scammer (albeit this wasnt known at the time). In the 
circumstances, Mr A wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim 
because the firm he paid had provided the services as intended (i.e., purchase of 
cryptocurrency). So, I dont think Halifax was under any obligation to raise a 
chargeback dispute for Mr A. 
In relation to the faster payment, banks are expected to contact the beneficiary bank 
and attempt to recall the payment as soon as theyre notified of a scam. It isnt clear if 
that is what also happened here. Regardless, Halifax could have only attempted 
recovery from Mr As wallet with the crypto exchange as that is where he sent money 
to from his Halifax account. I find it unlikely that any funds would have remained in 
Mr As crypto wallet, given he converted them into cryptocurrency and sent it on to 
the scammer. Im not persuaded that Halifax could have done more to assist in 
recovery of Mr As funds.
In summary, despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mr A finds himself, I dont 
find that Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably. So, I wont be making an award against 
it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman