DRN-3033756
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited has handled a 
fire claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs C made a claim to Fairmead after their home was badly damaged 
by a fire. After carrying out some forensic investigations into the cause of the fire Fairmead 
accepted the claim 12 days later. 
Fairmead drew up a schedule of repairs and put the work out to tender in early May. All 
responses to the tender were received by July. After some discussion with Mr C about the 
choice of contractor, in September 2020 Fairmead agreed to reinstate the property.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Fairmead about the way their claim had been handled. In 
particular they were unhappy about the following:
alternative accommodation;
delays;
recovery of their damaged contents;
the tender process for the repairs;
the contractor that was chosen to carry out the repairs; and
recovery of Fairmeads costs from a third party.
Fairmead accepted that its service should have been better and offered £350 
compensation.
As Mr and Mrs C didnt think that was enough, they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld it. He thought Fairmead should pay a total of £950 compensation for 
the trouble and upset it had caused. 
Mr and Mrs C also thought Fairmead should compensate them for the financial loss theyd 
suffered as a result of not being able to change to a better mortgage rate because of the 
avoidable delays in handling their claim. As they didnt agree with our investigators 
recommendation, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im only able to look at how Fairmead handled Mr and Mrs Cs claim up to 7 
April 2021 being the date when it issued its second final decision letter in respect of their 
complaint. Im also only able to look at issues which have previously been raised with 
Fairmead.
The fire happened on a Sunday in April at a time when many hotels were closed due to 
Covid-19 restrictions. Fairmead wasnt able to find the family accommodation straightaway, 
so they spent the first night after the fire in a campsite. I dont this was good enough, 
particularly bearing in mind the time of year and Ill bear this in mind when looking at 
compensation for trouble and upset.
The next day Fairmead asked its supplier to find the family accommodation for 14 nights. 
The supplier contacted Mr and Mrs C with some options. Mr and Mrs C rejected these as 
they were too small and found a holiday let which they stayed in for almost a month at 
Fairmeads expense. I think it was reasonable for Fairmead not to authorise longer-term 
accommodation until it had accepted liability for the claim and it did that within a relatively 
short time.
Mr and Mrs Cs property isnt near any large towns. They also needed accommodation 
which would accept dogs and which was suitable for the specific needs of family members. 
Eventually again they found somewhere to move into. I can understand that it would have 
been difficult for Fairmead to find them a suitable property to rent in the middle of a 
pandemic. But I think Fairmead did its best in this respect.
It took about a month longer than it should have done for the invited contractors to put in 
their tenders. I can appreciate that the pandemic might have contributed to the delay. Once 
all the tenders were received, there were various discussions about which contractor to 
appoint. All in all, I dont think there were significant delays during this period.
Before the property could be made safe, Fairmead had to check for the possible presence 
of asbestos. Unfortunately Fairmeads contractor only tested one ceiling and later had to go 
back to carry out more detailed tests. This meant the property wasnt made safe until the 
end of August but it didnt hold up the repairs as the tender had gone out anyway. It also 
meant that Fairmeads restoration company had to wait before recovering items of 
sentimental value from the first floor of the property. Some items may have deteriorated to 
the point when they couldnt be restored as a result of the delay and that would of course 
have been very upsetting for Mr and Mrs C. But I think its likely in view of the extensive 
damage caused by the fire that most of the items would have been beyond restoration 
anyway. I can also understand their concerns about the property being left insecure for such 
a long time while it was in a dangerous condition.
Fairmead has accepted that it should have put a tin hat over the property since the roof had 
been destroyed. That would have protected it from the elements. It didnt do so because it 
expected the repairs to start sooner than in fact they did. It calculated (wrongly) that the cost 
of additional weather-related damage would be less than the cost of a tin hat. Unfortunately 
the property was exposed to the elements until December and due to record rainfall in 
October 2020 significant extra damage was caused to the property. In particular ceiling 
joists in the lounge and kitchen needed to be replaced as a result. This in turn caused 
further unnecessary delays.
I appreciate that Mr C had some reservations about Fairmeads choice of contractor. I can 
see that Fairmead did discuss those reservations with him and offered the option of a cash 
settlement. Ultimately its up to an insurer whom it uses to carry out repairs. But its chosen 
contractor was based a considerable distance from the property and its sub-contractor 
about two hours away. Mr C says that led to the builders not being on site for a full working 
day. I think this would likely have slowed the reinstatement down and will take this into 
consideration when looking at compensation for delays.
Mr C raised concerns about the prospect of Fairmead taking legal action against a 
neighbour who might have been responsible for the fire starting. I can understand why he might prefer Fairmead not to do this. But its entitled to do so under the policy terms and so I 
dont think its treated Mr and Mrs C unreasonably in exploring this option. It has said it will 
try to keep their involvement in any such action to a minimum.  
Mr and Mrs C say their mortgage deal was due for renewal in March 2021 and ordinarily 
theyd have expected to have moved onto a cheaper rate with another lender. All the 
lenders they approached wouldnt consider lending on the property while it wasnt fit to be 
lived in. So they think Fairmeads delays have caused them a financial loss. But the 
reinstatement works were estimated to take at least 6 months after the property had been 
made safe and dried. So irrespective of delays on the part of Fairmead it would probably 
always have been the case that the property wouldnt have been fit to live in by March 2021. 
I also cant be sure they would have been able to switch to a more advantageous rate if the 
property had been fit to live in at that point. So I dont think theres enough evidence to say 
that Fairmead has caused them to suffer a financial loss in this respect.
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policyholder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type.
All in all, I can see that delays and some poor service on the part of Fairmead and its 
suppliers made this claim much more stressful for Mr and Mrs C than it needed to be. In 
addition to the delays referred to above which have meant they have been staying in 
accommodation an inconvenient distance from the family home longer than necessary, Mr C 
has had to spend a lot of time chasing Fairmead and its suppliers about various aspects of 
the claim such as making the property safe. They were also caused unnecessary distress by 
the further damage caused to their property by it not being covered by a tin hat and the delay 
in recovering sentimental items because the property hadnt been made safe. Having taken 
all the circumstances into account I think compensation of £950 would be fair and 
reasonable for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs C by this.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs C compensation of £950 for 
trouble and upset.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to do what is set out in the 
section above headed Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman