DRN-3299167
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM) ceased their web 
service for credit card customers, replacing it with an app. Mr C says that this unfairly 
discriminated against him as he is visually impaired and was unable to read it and so he was 
forced to close his account.
 
What happened
Mr C had a credit card with VM which he operated online though the website. 
In January 2021 VM closed their online service offering the mobile app as the alternative 
access. 
Mr C says he was unable to expand the app pages to a size where he could read them 
because of his visual impairment, and so he says that as a result he was forced to close his 
account as he had no way of operating it. 
Mr C complained to VM and they issued their final response on 7 April 2021. They said that 
they had not taken the decision to close the online service lightly, and they had provided 
feedback to the digital team. However, they didnt think they had done anything wrong.  
Mr C was unhappy with VMs response and so he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. He thought that VM had a duty to 
make reasonable adjustments for Mr C and they hadnt done so. He thought that VM should 
pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
VM agreed to this, but Mr C didnt, and so the case has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has complained that VM has failed to make reasonable adjustments for them. In other 
words, has failed their duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. 
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its 
relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. 
If Mr C wants a decision that VM has breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go 
Court.
So, Ive looked at:
What information VM provided when they removed their online service and whether it 
was adequate, including what information was given about alternatives that were 
available to those who couldnt use the app.  
How VM responded when Mr C first approached them about not being able to use 
the app because of his sight impairment, and whether they could have provided 
better information 
What information VM provided
VM have explained that it was a business decision to end their online account access, and it 
affected all customers. 
They have provided us with a copy of the notification that was sent to customers about the 
termination of the online service in January 2021, including to Mr C.  Although it provides 
information about how to download the app, it doesnt tell Mr C what other options are 
available to him to operate his account. And as Mr C wasnt able to use the app because of 
his sight impairment, the effect of this communication failure was that it left Mr C feeling 
excluded and unable to continue banking with VM. 
Although VM didnt tell Mr C in that initial communication about options, they have since told 
us what options were available. Specifically, the app could be downloaded onto a tablet 
rather than a phone, which would be easier to read, and also that there were online forms on 
the website, webchat and telephone service available. They also said that they were going to 
introduce other features over time but no specifics have been provided about this. However, 
it remains that this wasnt communicated to Mr C at the time and so he made the decision to 
close his account immediately as he couldnt use it. 
Should VM have done more when Mr C originally complained. 
Ive then thought about what VM should have done when Mr C complained to them
I think that once Mr C made VM aware of how the change was impacting him as a result of 
his disability, they should have considered the difficulties faced by him and what options 
were available as an alternative to using the app. 
The notes show that Mr C made contact with VM on 9 January 2021 to advise them that he 
would have to close his account as the app isnt expandable. VM respond by agreeing to 
close the account, but offered no alternatives. 
Mr C raised a complaint with VM, and only in their final response on 21 April 2021 did VM 
explain to Mr C some of the alternative ways to operate his account. They said that there 
were guides, a virtual assistant and live chat on the website. 
However, Mr C didnt think these alternatives were good enough, and I can see why he 
thought that, as they dont address his specific need to have online access in a readable 
format. Im not surprised that Mr C felt further frustrated by this response as it gives the 
impression that his particular complaint and issue hasnt been considered at all. 
So, I think VM could have done more. I dont think that they thought about the impact of this 
change on Mr C until it was raised with them, and they then didnt really try to explain options 
to Mr C or to help him overcome the difficulties the change had caused him.  
Putting things right
Unfortunately, Mr C closed his account with VM as a result of their decision to remove online 
banking. 
Mr C felt so excluded by VMs actions that he felt he had no option but to immediately close 
his account, and that was distressing and inconvenient for him.The investigator has suggested that £250 is sufficient to compensate Mr C for the distress 
and inconvenience suffered. Mr C has asked for an ombudsmans decision because he 
thinks that VM should have responded with much more empathy and worked with him. He 
also referred to there being a breach of the law, and says that this affected not just him, but 
all partially sighted people. 
It is important for Mr C to understand that I cant comment in general terms about how 
groups of customers may be affected by the change, nor make awards based on potential 
discrimination against groups of people. I am additionally not able to comment on a potential 
breach of the law as this is a matter for the courts. My remit as an ombudsman is to look at 
how Mr C was affected by this decision and compensate him for the impact this change had 
on him.  
So, in thinking about what is an appropriate award for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr C alone, Ive taken into account what Mr C has said about his feelings of 
exclusion, and frustration at not being offered any options by VM. As I have said above, I 
think VM could have done more. Ive taken on board Mr Cs comments that he was going to 
be using the card for home improvements in the future but was unable to do so. 
I have also taken account of the fact that there was no balance outstanding on the card at 
the time it was closed, and so there was no cost or inconvenience of transferring a balance, 
and I cant see any evidence that Mr Cs credit rating was affected by this.  
In view of the above, I am satisfied that the investigator has awarded an appropriate amount, 
and I agree that VM should pay Mr C £250 compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Mr Cs complaint and directing that Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money put things right as outlined above.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman