DRN-4330590
The complaint
Mr A complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) have failed to refund money that Mr A lost as 
part of an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr A clicked on an online advert for a company that said it as a trading firm that I will call B 
he filled in his details and was contacted by someone who said he was a trader. From what I 
understand he made the following payments to a cryptocurrency exchange the funds were 
used to buy cryptocurrencies which were then forwarded onto B.
The transactions made were as follows;
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 09/09/2022 Exchange Point £5,000 £5,000
2 15/09/2022 Exchange Point £5,250 £10,250
After seeing his balance with B increase for a few weeks it then declined sharply and Mr A 
attempted to withdraw some of the funds but was told that he could not do this. At this point 
Mr A realised that he had been scammed.
Mr A raised a complaint with Revolut as he believed that Revolut should have stopped him 
from making the payments in question.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they decided that the transactions were 
not sufficiently out of character to warrant an intervention by Revolut and that there was no 
other means of Revolut recovering the funds.
Mr A did not agree with this and therefore his complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr A authorised the disputed payments he made to Exchange Point 
(where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer from his crypto wallet). 
The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by 
Revolut, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr A from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which Revolut should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. However, in this instance Mr As account was newly 
opened and therefore Revolut could not compare the transactions in question with other 
transactions. The transactions in themselves were also not large enough, without others to 
compare to, to have prompted intervention from Revolut, they were also spaced out rather 
than taking place on the same day. 
Finally given the transactions were not completely incongruous with the reason Mr A gave as 
to why he opened the account which was to spend and save. So, I do not think the 
payments he is disputing should have been regarded as particularly unusual.
So, having considered the payments Mr A made, Im not persuaded there was anything that 
ought reasonably to have triggered Revoluts fraud monitoring systems or that would have 
indicated he was in the process of being scammed. I therefore do not consider there to have 
been any obligation on Revolut to have intervened any further.
Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough to attempt to recover the money Mr A 
lost, as the payments were made with a debit card there are some circumstances where a 
chargeback would be successful.
But in this case, I do not believe that a chargeback would not have been successful, as the 
transaction Mr A used his debit card for was to pay Exchange Point for cryptocurrency which 
he duly received. Mr A has not provided anything that demonstrates that he was not 
provided with the service he paid for.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Revolut can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman