DRN-3600220
The complaint
Mrs T complains HSBC UK Bank Plc returned two cheques shed paid to herself despite her 
having verified the cheques were genuine. 
Mrs T is represented by Mr T.
What happened
In November 2021 whilst abroad Mrs T wrote a cheque to herself for £7,000 to help with her 
day to day livings costs. The cheque was deposited into her HSBC oversees account but 
drawn on her HSBC current account in the UK. She was told the cheque would need to be 
cleared in the UK and would take about two weeks. But the cheque was returned, as HSBC 
said it had breached their fraud detection system. Despite mobility issues Mrs T with the help 
of Mr T provided verification of her identity in the overseas branch. 
Mrs T wrote another cheque again payable to herself for £60,000. And to make sure there 
werent any issues with this cheque Mr T made several calls to reiterate that the cheque was 
genuine. But this cheque was also returned, this time saying the signature didnt match the 
mandate held by the bank. As the funds were to help Mrs T while she was unable to return 
to the UK because of the pandemic, the return of both cheques caused her distress and 
inconvenience. Mrs T complained to HSBC.
HSBC said the £7,000 was returned as it had breached a parameter within their fraud 
prevention process. And while they empathised with Mrs T theyd a responsibility to 
safeguard her account. They said theyd returned the cheque made out for £60,000 as there 
was a signature variation to the mandate held on Mrs Ts account. Again, HSBC said theyd 
acted in Mrs Ts interest but said theyd refund her the fee HK$150 that had been charged 
for the return of the cheque. They also offered £50 to compensate Mrs T for the cost of the 
telephone calls that had been made.
Mrs T wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said HSBC had acted to safeguard Mrs Ts account so didnt think theyd 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in their actions with Mrs T. 
Mrs T didnt agree, she said shed taken steps to show the cheques were genuine and as 
they were being paid into her own account couldnt understand the actions taken by HSBC. 
She asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Ts frustration as having had one cheque returned for security reasons, 
shed taken steps to verify her identification and called HSBC to prevent issues with the 
second cheque.
While I empathise with the position Mrs T finds herself in, for me to say HSBC must do 
something different I must first be satisfied that theyve done something wrong. I cant see
that they have here which is why I wont be asking them to do anything else.
Under the terms and conditions, HSBC can block payments from an account and/or suspend
account services if they believe its necessary for security reasons, or to prevent suspected 
unauthorised or fraudulent use of an account. Mrs T agreed to be bound by these terms and 
conditions when opening the account.
So, the starting point here is that its right for HSBC to have security measures and
procedures in place to safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible.
As to exactly what those procedures are and how they are carried out, that is a matter for
HSBC to decide. What I need to decide here is whether they applied their procedure 
correctly and fairly.
Ive considered HSBCs terms and conditions; they say payment can be made from an 
account but give reasons when this mightnt be possible. An example given is:
We reasonably believe that certain things have happened. Theres been a breach of 
security or misuse of your account, security details or a payment device.
The terms and conditions also say:
 If theres a problem with a cheque or other payment, well try to tell you as soon as 
possible.
As the £7,000 cheque breached the security measures HSBC had in place, they as outlined 
in their terms and conditions had reasons to stop the payment being made. I can see from 
HSBCs records that they tried to call Mrs T the same day to discuss the cheque but didnt 
get a response, they returned the cheque to her. Im satisfied HSBC followed their security 
processes so I cant say HSBC did anything wrong in rejecting the cheque.
Ive now considered what happened with the second cheque made out to Mrs T for 
£60,000.HSBCs terms and conditions say:
If you pay in a large-sized cheque or one for a large amount, we may carry out some further 
checks. That means it might take a bit longer for it to be processed.
I can see the cheque was dated 25 November 2021 and that Mrs T called HSBC the same 
day to say the cheque had been put into the account in her overseas branch. Mrs T also 
passed the calls verification check. So, I can understand Mrs Ts frustration that despite this 
the cheque was returned to her.
HSBC use a cheque processing service in the UK. I can see from the letter dated                 
2 December 2021 that the cheque was rejected as it wasnt signed in accordance with the 
mandate the bank had from when Mrs T opened her account. I can also see that HSBC tried 
to call Mrs T the same day but without success. While Mrs T had taken steps to ensure the 
cheque was honoured, I cant say HSBC have done anything wrong as despite Mrs T calling them to verify the cheque was genuine the cheque didnt pass their fraud prevention 
measures. 
I know Mrs T was trying to genuinely pay money from one of her accounts into another, but 
its not unknown for customers to be persuaded to move money between their own accounts 
as part of a fraudulent scam or activity. And given the high value of the cheque Id expect 
HSBC to safeguard Mrs Ts account. The cheque didnt satisfy HSBCs cheque processing 
service so I cant say they did anything wrong by rejecting the cheque.
But this has been a distressing time for Mrs T. I can see that HSBC have looked to resolve 
this by refunding the fee charged for the return of the cheque and by offering to reimburse 
Mrs T for the calls she made in the hope of preventing the cheques return. As I dont think 
HSBC have done anything wrong its for Mrs T to decide whether she accepts their offer.
I can see that HSBC have suggested an alternative way for Mrs T to move money between 
her accounts. And that the overseas branch has helped her to set up mobile banking on her 
account. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs T but I hope she understands why Ive reached this 
outcome.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman