DRN-4177937
The complaint
B complains that Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited (trading as Intasure) treated 
it poorly when its insurance policies were coming to an end.
What happened
B is a limited company. It held two property insurance policies, which had been arranged 
and renewed by Intasure for a number of years.
Intasure wrote to Mr S (a director of B) in January 2023, explaining that  due to claims  the 
insurer had tightened its underwriting criteria and that renewal could no longer be offered. 
Despite B only having two policies the letter referenced three.
Mr S said he found this confusing, because two of the policies referenced were held by B, 
yet the third related to a separate policy, albeit one he had knowledge of. Furthermore, 
Intasure had already written to invite renewal on the separate policy just a few days earlier.
Intasure explained to Mr S that theyd issued that renewal invitation prematurely and 
confirmed the insurers decision that Bs policies would not be renewed. Intasure said they 
felt the 14-day notice of this was reasonable. And they clarified that the risk was said to have 
been too commercial for the insurers books, as opposed to it being claim related.
Mr S disagreed that the time period to source alternative cover was adequate and, on his 
request, Intasure later confirmed that the insurers had agreed to provide a 30-day extension 
for each of the policies, to allow Mr S more time to source replacements.
Intasure accepted that errors had been made, confusion had been caused and that  at 
times  their communication had been inaccurate. They apologised but seemingly felt the 
extension sufficiently addressed the issues raised. Mr S disagreed, so brought it to us.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They agreed that the remedial action of 
extending Bs policies was a fair way for Intasure to have resolved the complaint. So, they 
didnt ask them to do anything further  for example, pay compensation.
Mr S disagreed. He said he had not complained primarily to win compensation, rather had 
complained to prevent other Intasure clients from suffering the same fate. He said he was 
lucky enough to have found a broker who suggested he seek a policy extension, so as to 
avoid a period without insurance. Otherwise, B may have ended up being at risk itself.
Amongst other things, Mr S said a judgment is difficult to understand if it doesnt set out what 
criteria the business is being assessed against. As agreement couldnt be reached, the case 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to begin by explaining that I have focussed on what I consider to be the heart of 
the matter. That means I havent addressed every point made by B or Intasure. This isnt 
intended as any discourtesy to either party, rather it reflects the informal nature of what we 
do as a service, especially when compared to the courts.
I note Mr S accepts that his concerns about other customers and wider issues are generally 
outside of our remit. That is not to say we dont pass wider concerns onto the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA, the regulator), but its for them to consider any action.
The FCAs high level principles say that businesses must pay due regard to the interests of 
their customers and treat them fairly. And while not specific to the circumstances in this 
case, the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook talks generally about renewal 
communications being provided in good time. We also expect businesses to learn from their 
errors to help prevent similar issues coming up repeatedly.
Turning to this individual case, Ive considered what happened alongside its impact on B.
While I appreciate the letter advising Bs policies wouldnt renew also referred to a separate 
policy  and that some of its content was said to have been incorrect  I dont agree it was 
especially unclear. It said the policies couldnt be renewed, a position since maintained.
I do agree, however, that Intasure didnt really give Mr S an adequate window in which to 
obtain replacement cover in the circumstances. But, I also agree that allowing a 30-day 
extension is a suitable remedy for that. I consider that time period to be adequate for B to 
have sought out replacement policies. I understand Mr Ss frustration that this wasnt offered 
from the outset, but it was offered and so the impact of not giving it up front was minimal. 
Overall, Intasure was informed by the insurer that Bs policies couldnt be renewed. They 
communicated that clearly and allowed B a 30-day extension in order to seek out new cover. 
So, while there were some failings, the extension was a suitable remedy for those.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman