DRN-3632399
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt update her address and cancel a tech
pack on her account when she first instructed them to, and with the service that shed
received from Barclays surrounding this issue.
What happened
In April 2020, Mrs S telephoned Barclays and advised that shed moved overseas and
instructed Barclays to update her address and to cancel the tech pack on her account.
However, in November 2021, Mrs S noticed that Barclays hadnt updated her address or
cancelled the tech pack as shed instructed them to in April 2020, and that shed been
incurring charges of £14.50 per month for the tech pack since that time. Mrs S wasnt happy
about this, so she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Ss complaint. They couldnt find any record or Mrs S contacting
them in April 2020, and as such they maintained that they hadnt received an instruction to
change the address or cancel the tech pack as Mrs S had stated.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, especially as shed asked Barclays whether
she could make an insurance claim using the tech pack and had been told that she couldnt
because shed already confirmed that she lived overseas. So, she referred her complaint to
this service.
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Ss complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had
acted unfairly towards Mrs S in how theyd managed this situation, and so they didnt uphold
the complaint.
Mrs S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 July 2022 as follows:
In circumstances where the testimonies of the complainant and the respondent 
business differ  as they do here in regard to whether Barclays received a request 
from Mrs S in April 2020 to update her address and cancel the tech pack on her 
account  I have to decide, if its reasonably possible to do so, whats more likely to 
have happened, on balance, in consideration of all the evidence and information 
available to me.
In this instance Mrs S maintains that she did contact Barclays in April 2020 and 
requested to update her address and cancel the tech pack on her account, and I feel 
that its notable that at that time the Covid-19 pandemic was emerging such that its 
likely that any Barclays agent that Mrs S did speak with was working from home. And 
Mrs Ss recollections of that call, which involved recalling a barking dog, support this 
assumption.
It therefore seems plausible to me, given that April 2020 was at the start of the Covid-
19 restrictions where businesses such as Barclays were having to adapt to the 
unprecedented changes in working environments that were taking place, that Mrs S 
may have called and may have instructed Barclays as she contends, but that for 
some reason her requests werent actioned or recorded.
However, I also note having listened to the telephone calls that Mrs S had with 
Barclays when she first raised this complaint that the agent to whom she spoke 
immediately recognised that because Mrs S was now living overseas that her UK 
Barclays account would have to close. And I feel that if Mrs S had contacted Barclays 
and updated her address to an overseas address in April 2020 that its more likely 
than not that any agent that she spoke with at that time would also have immediately 
recognised this point.
I also feel that Mrs S had a responsibility to monitor her Barclays account, which 
continued to show her old UK address, and which continued to show the tech pack 
being charged on the monthly statements. And while its notable that Mrs S didnt use 
the Barclays account as regularly as when she lived in the UK, she did continue to 
use the account occasionally, and I dont feel that because Mrs S no longer used the 
Barclays account as regularly as she previously had done that this absolved her of 
the obligation to have monitored that  account.
All of which means that I dont feel that theres compelling evidence to enable me to 
say with a reasonable degree of certainty that Barclays were informed of Mrs Ss 
change of address and request to cancel the tech pack in April 2020, and I also feel 
that it was incumbent on Mrs S to have monitored her account more effectively than it 
appears that she did. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this aspect of 
Mrs Ss complaint.
But Mrs S has also complained that when she was told by Barclays that while they 
werent willing to accept that she had called and updated her address to an overseas 
address in April 2020, that she wouldnt be able to make a retrospective insurance 
claim using the tech pack because she had confirmed that she had in fact moved 
overseas.
This doesnt feel fair to me, and while Barclays have stated that they arent 
responsible for whether Mrs S could or couldnt make a claim on the insurance or 
not, Mrs S has stated that Barclays did tell her that she couldnt make a claim, and 
Mrs Ss position here appears to be verified by the complaint notes provided to this 
service by Barclays which record such a conversation with Mrs S taking place on 19 
November 2021  which was the day that Barclays sent their response to this 
complaint to Mrs S.
And while it may have been the case that Mrs S could have made a retrospective 
claim on the insurance (which would have been a decision for the insurance provider 
themselves to make) it seems reasonable to me that Mrs S would have acted on the 
information given to her by Barclays during that call and would have believed that 
she was unable to make a retrospective claim on the insurance because it had been 
invalidated by her moving overseas, while also having been made aware that 
Barclays were unwilling to reimburse the monthly charges for the pack that included 
that insurance that shed been told was invalid.As such, my provisional decision is that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mrs Ss 
favour on this limited basis and provisionally instructing Barclays to make a payment 
of £150 to Mrs S, which I feel fairly compensates her for any trouble or upset she 
may have incurred because of Barclays providing her with information about her 
ability to make a claim on the insurance that went beyond Barclays remit at that time.
Both Mrs S and Barclays have subsequently confirmed that theyre happy to accept my 
provisional decision. As such, I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Mrs Ss favour 
on the basis outlined above, and I confirm that I do uphold this complaint on that basis 
accordingly.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £150 to Mrs S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman