DRN-2893222
The complaint
Mr C complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA didnt settle the claim he made under his 
travel insurance policy in full. Hes also unhappy with the service he received during the 
claims process.
What happened
Mr C held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which covered him from February 2020 
until February 2021. The policy was underwritten by Inter Partner.
Mr C had booked a trip to Japan to visit a family member. The trip was due to start on 
18 March 2020 but Mr C cancelled his trip after the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad on 17 March 2020.
Inter Partner only paid half of the cost of an accommodation Mr C had booked, as the 
booking was for two people in a twin room. Inter Partner said the policy only covered Mr Cs 
costs. It didnt cover the family members costs as they werent insured under the policy.
Mr C says the accommodation only had a twin room available, and the cost was the same 
for single occupancy. He says the family member was only added on the booking just in 
case  but otherwise, they had their own accommodation in Japan.
Mr C is also unhappy with the service he received from Inter Partner. He says it kept 
referring to information that wasnt correct  namely, that the flight was cancelled when it 
wasnt. Inter Partner acknowledged the service Mr C had received wasnt acceptable and 
offered him £50 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She didnt think Inter Partner had done 
anything wrong in only paying half of Mr Cs accommodation costs, as this was in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. In summary, this was because the booking was made 
for two people, only Mr C was covered under this policy, and the relevant policy terms 
covered your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation 
costs.
But our investigator didnt think the compensation Inter Partner had paid was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. She said Inter Partner had repeatedly sent him information 
how he could get a refund for his flight, but this wasnt relevant as the flight wasnt cancelled, 
and Mr C had explained this to Inter Partner several times. Our investigator thought Inter 
Partner shouldve provided clearer information. She recommended it should increase its 
offer of compensation from £50 to £100.
Mr C accepted our investigators explanation why Inter Partner had acted reasonably by only 
paying half of his claim for accommodation costs. But he didnt think the compensation she 
recommended was enough. He thought £200 would be fairer. Inter Partner, on the other 
hand, thought its original offer of £50 was reasonable.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint. 
I can see that Mr C has now accepted that Inter Partner settled his claim for accommodation 
costs in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. But for completeness sake, having 
considered everything, I agree with the findings our investigator reached on this. I think Inter 
Partner has settled this part of Mr Cs claim fairly and reasonably.
But I dont agree with the findings our investigator reached on the service Inter Partner gave 
Mr C. Ill explain why.
Inter Partner has explained that it was experiencing a high influx of claims due to the 
unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic. This was also something 
that impacted all insurers. So, having looked through the timeline, I dont think the delays 
were unreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
For example, I dont think the further information Inter Partner requested before it could 
settle Mr Cs claim was unreasonable. Fundamentally, Inter Partner was asking for evidence 
that Mr Cs losses were irrecoverable. I accept that Mr C had already explained why he was 
struggling to get the evidence Inter Partner was asking for. But I also note that it became 
apparent that Mr C had received a refund for train costs only after Inter Partners second 
specific request for evidence about the train costs being irrecoverable.
I know Mr Cs main concern is that he feels Inter Partner didnt read or understand his 
correspondence  so, the generic responses werent acceptable.
I accept that some of the generic responses Inter Partner sent werent particularly helpful  
for example the draft template it said Mr C could use to get a refund from the airline. This 
wasnt relevant as the flight hadnt been cancelled. But I can see that Inter Partner said in 
most of its correspondence that the policy only covers irrecoverable losses, and where a 
voucher (or an option to rebook) had been offered, this wouldnt be covered under the policy.
Mr C continued to explain to Inter Partner that he had rejected the voucher but hadnt got a 
cash refund. But I can also see that the airline had told Mr C in April 2020 that the voucher 
was valid for 12 months. After that, it would be fully refundable.
I think Inter Partner was sufficiently clear in its communication when it said that the policy 
only covered irrecoverable losses. And as Mr C had been provided a voucher, or an option 
to rebook, this wasnt something the policy covered. I accept that Inter Partner also sent 
some information which wasnt necessarily relevant to Mr Cs dispute and that this caused 
some frustration. But taking everything into account, I think the £50 compensation Inter 
Partner has paid to Mr C is fair and reasonable compensation for the impact this caused. I 
dont think theres anything else it needs to do, to put things right.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision and said that there was very little that could be 
said on the matter, but he didnt agree with my decision. He also didnt want to waste any 
more time on this. Inter Partner, on the other hand, accepted my decision. As both parties 
have responded to my provisional decision, Im issuing my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me any new information to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I reached in my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. Overall, I dont 
think theres anything else Inter Partner needs to do, to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman