DRN-1269771
The complaint
Mr C has complained, on behalf of his company (L) about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) 
valuation of Ls car when settling a claim on Ls fleet insurance policy. 
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
Background
Mr C is a director of L. One of Ls cars was stolen. UKI settled the claim for its loss. It said 
the cars market value at the time was £23,100. Mr C didn't agree with that valuation and 
brought the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Ls complaint. He thought UKI had valued the car fairly. 
Mr C didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its likely I won't uphold it.
I should explain that it's not my role to value cars but Ill look to see that an insurers reached 
its valuation fairly. Our usual approach to complaints about valuations is to look at the 
relevant trade guides for valuing second-hand cars. We find these more reliable than figures 
cars are advertised for. That's because the trade guides use extensive research of likely 
selling prices for cars, whereas the price a car is advertised for isn't necessarily the price it 
sells for, if in fact it sells at all.
Im aware that the manufacturer of Ls car which was stolen no longer makes that precise 
model. And Mr Cs said that the trade guides don't take account of the numerous designer 
extras his car enjoyed. Hes said he couldn't find a replacement car for the figure UKI settled 
the claim for. He added that he replaced the car with another that was two years older, with 
higher mileage and lower level of trim, for £2,000 more than UKI settled his claim for. But I 
don't think the fact Mr C paid more to replace Ls car means that UKIs valuation was unfair.
In this case the trade guides provided a fairly broad range of valuations, with figures of 
around £17,100 (by a guide Ill call C), £17,600 (by a guide Ill call G), and (at the time UKI 
valued it) £22,400 (by a third guide whose valuation later increased when our investigator 
looked into this). And where one of the guides values is outside of the others then we might 
say it was fair to ignore that valuation as an outlier. But where we don't think it would be fair 
to ignore any of the guides values wed usually say that it would be reasonable for an insurer 
to place a market value on a car using an average of those figures, which in this case would 
have been roughly £19,000.  
But UKI didn't rely on an average of the three trade guides valuations but instead asked G if 
it could provide a bespoke valuation of Ls car. Having done so, G increased its valuation 
from around £17,600 to £19,250. UKI then went further to recognise the designer extras Ls 
car was fitted with and increased the value by a further £3,850. And it did so based on 
information, provided by the firm that designed the extras, that indicate the extras should 
increase the cars market value by around 20% above the valuation provided by C. That 
would provide a valuation of (17,100 + 20%) £20,520. But instead UKI added 20% to Gs 
bespoke valuation, to come to a final valuation of £23,100. And in the circumstances of this 
complaint I think that was fair.  
Im aware Mr C doesn't think he could buy a replacement car for that amount, and he's 
provided some adverts for similar cars to support his arguments. But it appears that all the 
adverts were collated from a single source, whereas G uses numerous different sources to 
arrive at its valuations. So I think its likely G had access to a wider pool of data. And I don't 
think the fact the adverts Mr C found where generally more expensive than Gs assessment 
means it wasn't fair to use Gs base valuation.
Further, Im aware that to buy the designer extras for Ls car from new would be very 
expensive, perhaps upwards of £15,000. But the extras on Ls car weren't new and so their 
value would have depreciated over time. Also additional extras won't usually result in a cars 
value increasing by the same amount as those extras cost. Indeed I understand that some 
extras have little impact, if any, on the value of the car in the second hand market. And given 
that UKI had found information from the designer of those extras when looking to see the 
impact on the value of Ls car, I think its arrived at its final valuation fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman