DRN-3201089
The complaint
Mrs L complains that esure Insurance Limited (trading as Sheilas Wheels) accepted liability 
for a motor accident that wasnt her fault.
Mrs L is represented in this matter by her husband, but for simplicity Ill refer mainly to Mrs L 
in my decision.
What happened
Mrs L had a motor insurance policy with esure. In January 2020, her husband  a named 
driver on the policy  was involved in an accident. Mrs L reported the accident to esure. 
While she didnt make a claim, the other motorist made a claim against her.
Mrs L believes the other motorist was speeding and/or distracted by their phone. However, 
esure found that Mrs Ls husband turned into the path of the other motorist. It didnt have any 
evidence that showed the other motorist was speeding or at fault (for example, a police 
report, witness statements, CCTV, or dashcam footage), so it accepted liability for the 
accident.
Mrs L is unhappy because she doesnt think her husband was to blame. She said that esure 
accepting liability meant her annual premium increased by about £300  she later found a 
cheaper policy with another insurer  and her No Claim Discount (NCD) was reduced by 
eight years. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that esure investigated the claim fairly and he didnt think the evidence showed the other 
motorist was speeding. He thought it was reasonable for esure to accept liability for the 
claim. 
Mrs L didnt accept our investigators recommendation, so the case was passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions of Mrs Ls policy, esure can take over, defend, or settle a 
claim as it sees fit (General Conditions, section 3). This is common in car insurance policies 
and esure doesnt need Mrs L to agree this. This also means esure can make a decision Mrs 
L doesnt agree with. If it does, I can decide if that decision was fair and reasonable.
The circumstances of the accident arent disputed. Mrs Ls husband turned right across 
traffic into a side road when the other motorist, travelling in the opposite direction, hit him. 
Mrs L believes the other motorist was to blame for the accident because he was going too 
fast. 
But, as both esure and our investigator explained, theres no evidence supporting this. For 
example, if the other motorist had been speeding I might expect to see witness statement(s), 
CCTV, traffic camera footage, or details of police action against the other motorist that would 
confirm this. I have none of these. 
In these circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to have accepted liability 
when the other motorist made a claim. That means the claim should be recorded as a fault 
against Mrs Ls husband. The result of this is that Mrs Ls premium would likely go up and 
her NCD would be affected, as set out in section 7 of her policy booklet. 
Separately, esure offered Mrs L £150 to apologise for poor communication during this case. 
Mrs L didnt complain to us about that so Im not going to ask esure to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman