DRN-2748586
The complaint
Mrs Js complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC is about the distress caused when an 
adviser was rude to her over the phone.
What happened
Mrs J called Barclays in November 2020 to ask about taking out life insurance to cover her 
mortgage. She was transferred to the mortgage team so she could speak to an adviser 
there.
Mrs Js complaint is that the adviser she spoke to didnt have any knowledge about life 
insurance. She said the adviser laughed at her and then disconnected the call. Mrs J says 
she was left very upset by the rude and insensitive actions of the Barclays adviser. 
Barclays have apologised for the poor service Mrs J received and offered her £40 in 
compensation. They say they have also given her the information she wanted about life 
insurance. 
Mrs J brought her complaint to our service because she thinks Barclays should do more to 
put things right. She has suggested that Barclays should pay her account fees for a year and 
retrain all their staff.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and thought the offer of compensation from 
Barclays was reasonable. Mrs J disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accept they provided a poor service to Mrs J. Where something has gone wrong, 
we look at the impact its had and whether what the business has done to put things right is 
fair and reasonable.
Mrs J has said it was a sensitive time for her and she was calling Barclays for advice on an 
important subject. The adviser she spoke to was impatient and rude, and disconnected the 
call. That must have been very upsetting for Mrs J and its clear that Barclays actions have 
caused her distress. Im very sorry to hear that.
But Barclays apologised for their mistake promptly and paid Mrs J compensation of £40. 
They have also given feedback to the adviser, and her manager, about the call and the 
upset this caused to Mrs J. Taking account of what happened, and everything Mrs J has 
said, I think thats fair and reasonable. 
I realise this wont be the decision Mrs J was hoping for, but I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Barclays Bank UK PLCs 
offer to pay Mrs J £40 in compensation to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman