DRN-3698742
The complaint
Ms C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited treated her unfairly during her 
motor insurance claim. Reference to Advantage will include those acting on their behalf.
What happened
Ms C had motor insurance with Advantage. Unfortunately her car was damaged around the 
end of December 2017. Ms C informed Advantage, but she didnt want to claim for fear of it 
happening again. Ms C says she was told she could defer the claim for up to six years.
Ms C had moved to somewhere with off-street parking, and by June 2021 she felt able to 
claim, so she got back in touch with Advantage. But Ms C says it took over six months just to 
have her car inspected and then a further two months for the repairs to take place.
Advantage apologised for the way Ms Cs claim had been handled and paid her a total of 
£140 compensation for that. Ms C didnt think that was sufficient, so she brought her case to 
our service.
An investigator here looked into things. They initially felt Advantage hadnt offered enough 
compensation, but that was on the understanding that the total was £105. The investigator 
recommended a total of £155, but once Advantage said theyd already paid £140, she said 
that was sufficient.
Ms C didnt agree that was fair and so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms C but Im not upholding her complaint, Ill explain why.
The first thing to acknowledge is that Advantage have accepted they treated Ms C unfairly. 
They have apologised and have paid £140 compensation to her for that. So, all that is left for 
me to decide is whether or not that compensation is fair.
While I appreciate that Ms C has gone to significant effort in presenting her case, I do not 
intend to comment on each and every aspect of what happened. That isnt intended as any 
discourtesy, it merely reflects the informal nature of what we do.
One of the first things to note is that I understand Ms Cs car to have been drivable 
throughout this matter. That means this is not a case of her being unable to use it while 
waiting for repairs. Had that been the case I would have considered further compensation to 
be warranted. It is also of note that Ms C was prepared to wait a significant amount of time to 
proceed with the claim. I understand the reasons behind this, but it shows that it wasnt a 
significant priority.
I appreciate that Ms C says further delays occurred after the compensation had been paid, 
and so she thinks it stands to reason that additional compensation is due. I understand the 
logic here but its often the case  particularly in insurance claims  that further delays can 
occur after an initial complaint.
Where possible, when considering compensation, we will look at the whole period of the 
claim. And we will weigh that up against the trouble and upset caused to the consumer. That 
can sometimes mean we think the compensation as a whole is suitable.
I can well appreciate how frustrating Ms C will have found this matter. She spent a 
considerable amount of time and effort in trying to push the claim along. But, overall, I 
believe £140 was a reasonable amount of compensation for that. Id like to be clear that this 
is not to minimise the impact on Ms C, Advantage clearly treated her unfairly, its just that I 
think the compensation paid already is sufficient.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman