DRN-1552505
 
The complaint
Miss M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly gave her loans that 
she couldnt afford.
What happened 
Lending Stream gave Miss M five loans in total during the period April - November 2017. 
Heres a chart showing some of the main loan details:
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountMaximum* 
repayment
1 02/04/2017 11/06/2017 6 £300 £132.00
2 29/07/2017 29/12/2017 6 £600 £268.80
3 07/08/2017 29/12/2017 6 £400 £448.00
4 01/10/2017 29/12/2017 6 £620 £616.80
5 27/11/2017 29/12/2017 6 £350 £636.18
*combined repayment amount where loans overlap
When Lending Stream first looked at Miss Ms complaint it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Miss M was unhappy with this response and she brought her complaint to us. 
She told us that she had to borrow more money to pay these Lending Stream loans  and 
the fact she paid them early didnt mean she could afford the repayments. She says Lending 
Stream wouldve seen this if it had checked her bank statements. 
Miss M said she had multiple other credit commitments, including paying other short term 
lenders, as well as other debts, defaults and court judgements.
Our adjudicator thought that she hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair of Lending Stream 
to have provided loans 1  4. But she said Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loan 5 to 
Miss M as she already had three loans outstanding with Lending Stream. So Lending 
Stream shouldve realised that it was unlikely that Miss M would be able to sustainably repay 
loan 5. Our adjudicator set out what Lending Stream needed to do to put things right for 
Miss M.Lending Stream reconsidered its position in the light of our adjudicators assessment of 
Miss Ms complaint and said that it agreed to do what the adjudicator had recommended. 
Lending Stream sent us details showing the figures it had worked out and we forwarded this 
information to Miss M. 
Miss M isnt happy with this proposed settlement. She feels that loan 5 is not the only loan 
that should not have been given to her and she would like her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for further review.
So her complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans 
 not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
Like the adjudicator, I dont think Lending Stream shouldve provided loan 5 to Miss M. And 
as Lending Stream has accepted our adjudicators view and confirmed it is willing to take the 
steps she suggested to put things right for Miss M, I dont think I need to say more about this 
loan. 
Miss M feels that Lending Stream didn't do all the checks she thinks it shouldve done before 
agreeing to lend to her. But I've independently reached the same conclusions about the 
loans our adjudicator didn't uphold. Ill explain why I say this.
For loans 1-3, Ive looked at what it appears Miss M had told Lending Stream about her 
financial circumstances and the repayment amounts she had to make. Taking this 
information into account, and bearing in mind that she was a new borrower with Lending 
Stream, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Miss M for the 
amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing these first three loans.  
Loans 1-3 looked comfortably affordable for Miss M  based on what shed said to Lending 
Stream about her finances. So I agree with our adjudicator that there isnt enough 
information for me to be able to say that Lending Stream shouldnt have lent her loans 1-3. 
I think by loan 4 Lending Stream ought to have done more to check out what Miss M had 
told Lending Stream about her financial situation given that it was starting to look like the 
credit information Lending Stream recorded for Miss M might not fully explain her borrowing 
record with Lending Stream.
But looking at all the information thats available to me, I havent seen enough to make me 
think that Lending Stream ought to have decided not to agree this loan had it done so. The 
defaults that Miss M mentioned and payment problems that had led to court proceedings 
were from some time ago. By the time she asked for loan 4 shed successfully repaid one 
court judgement. And Miss M had told Lending Stream that she was paying around £500 for 
credit expenses - which wouldnt have seemed unreasonable. 
Lending Stream revised her overall expenses figure upwards to allow a margin for any extra 
or unexpected spending and to cover costs not already accounted for. Even allowing for this, 
the repayments on loan 4 still looked comfortably affordable for Miss M.
Im sorry that Miss M found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality her 
financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the other 
information Lending Stream obtained.  
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say that Miss M has lost out as a 
result of something that Lending Stream did wrong. And for the reasons I've set out above, 
based on all the information I've seen and been told, I dont think thats the case. Having looked carefully at all the available information, I think the way the adjudicator 
suggested settling this complaint is fair and reasonable  and Lending Stream has agreed to 
do that.
So I think Lending Stream should now do what it has offered to put things right. 
Putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 5, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss M which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Miss M the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
 
D. Remove any adverse information Lending Stream has recorded on Miss Ms credit 
file for loan 5.
 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Miss Ms complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman