DRN-4492415
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt calculated their mortgage 
account correctly. Theyve asked for an independent audit of the mortgage account. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have a mortgage with Barclays. They say Barclays made errors which caused 
the account to appear  wrongly  to be in arrears.
Mr and Mrs G believe the problem started when Barclays took over the account from another 
lender, although they say Barclays made errors after that. Our investigator said there are 
parts of the complaint that this service cant look into. Thats because parts of the complaint 
were brought to us outside our time limits or because wed looked into the matter before.
Our investigator said we can look into Mr and Mrs Gs concerns about how the account had 
been managed since March 2016, which is six years before Mr and Mrs G raised a 
complaint with Barclays. Mr and Mrs G agreed, and the complaint proceeded on that basis.
Our investigator said the arrears were recorded and communicated correctly until mid-2022. 
At that point Barclays gave Mr and Mrs G incorrect information about the amount of their 
arrears. Our investigator said Barclays should pay £300 for the upset this caused, taking into 
account Barclays had sent letters about taking possession. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. Mr G said the arrears balance in March 2016 was incorrect, 
meaning Barclays had overcharged interest since then. He said while the sums Barclays 
said were owed didnt now put their home at risk, this was the case previously and £300 
wasnt enough for the anguish caused over many years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first make it clear that Im only considering the complaint that Mr and Mrs G raised 
with Barclays in March 2022  that is, that their arrears balance is incorrect. And I can only 
look into what happened from March 2016 (six years prior to Mr and Mrs G making a 
complaint). Weve explained this to Mr and Mrs G. This means, in effect, I have to look into 
this complaint on the basis the mortgage account as stated by Barclays was correct in March 
2016. 
Barclays provided copies of annual mortgage statements, arrears letters and internal 
mortgage account records to us. These show Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage account was in 
arrears by about £2,000 in March 2016. 
Mr G says this arrears amount might include fees of about £400 that Barclays had wrongly 
applied to the account and which it should have refunded before March 2016. Mr G sent a 
copy of the 2016 annual statement which shows fee refunds of £400 prior to March 2016. 
Weve told Mr G we cant look into what happened before March 2016 so Im not going to 
make any findings about this. 
Mr G says they made overpayments of about £70 per month. And they made a payment of 
£680 in November 2016 to clear the arrears they believed were owed. If so, this would total 
overpayments of about £1,200. This would have reduced but not cleared the arrears of 
£2,000. So when Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs G in December 2016 saying there were 
arrears of about £790 I dont think this was incorrect.
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs G in December 2017 saying there were arrears totalling about 
£735. Barclays sent an arrears letter in December 2018 saying the arrears were about £790. 
Mr and G made underpayments from September 2018 to September 2019. Mr G says he 
overlooked a letter telling them the CMP had increased. Barclays sent an arrears statement 
to Mr and Mrs G at the end of 2019 showing arrears of about £960. Barclays sent letters to 
Mr and Mrs G saying the arrears were about £900 in December 2020 and in December 
2021.
Mr G says when he realised theyd made underpayments in 2018 and 2019 they made a 
payment that he calculated would repay the underpayments. We asked Mr G more about 
this and he confirmed that hed made this payment in May 2022. Mr G said he hadnt noticed 
the underpayments until March/April 2022. 
Mr G says they made their contractual monthly payments (CMP) without fault, other than in 
2018 and 2019 when they made underpayments. But they didnt make additional payments 
to clear fully the £2,000 arrears balance. I cant fairly find that Barclays was wrong to say the 
account is in arrears. 
Mr G says they were never given a clear explanation of the arrears, so could only guess 
whether the problem was sorted. Barclays sent annual statements and arrears letters which 
set out the arrears balance. If Mr and Mrs G wanted to clear the arrears, I think they had 
sufficient information to enable them to do so.
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs G in early 2022 saying there was an outstanding balance of 
about £910. It said if they didnt call to reach agreement about paying it, it would instruct 
solicitors. Barclays sent similar letters in March 2022 and June 2022  by which time Mr and 
Mrs G had reduced their arrears to about £650. 
I can understand that Mr and Mrs G found letters about possible recovery action upsetting. 
But I need to take into account that the account has been in arrears for some time. Id expect 
Barclays to keep Mr and Mrs G informed about their arrears and the possible consequences 
if they arent repaid. While Barclays offered to discuss options to help repay the arrears Mr G 
says this wasnt something they asked for or need.
Barclays made an error in mid-2022 when it gave Mr and Mrs G incorrect information that 
suggested their arrears were £3,000. This was corrected within a short period. Barclays 
agreed to pay £300 for the upset this caused, and I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs G say they recently discovered Barclays had recorded adverse data on their 
credit files. This wasnt part of the complaint that they raised with Barclays in March 2022. 
I should explain that if Id found that Barclays had made an error when it said there were 
arrears on Mr and Mrs Gs account, Id ask it to put this right. Its likely that would include 
ordering Barclays to remove any incorrect information from Mr and Mrs Gs credit file. As I dont think Barclays was wrong to say that the account is in arrears, I wont be asking it to 
make changes to the information reported to the credit reference agencies in this decision. 
If Mr and Mrs G remain concerned that Barclays reported incorrect information to the credit 
reference agencies theyll need to raise this with Barclays.
Mr G says Barclays is supposed to distribute payments between the different sub-accounts 
but it doesnt do this consistently. He says thats why he makes separate payments to each 
sub-account. And this is why he was charged an arrears charge in July 2016 when he made 
a payment early, at the end of June 2016. 
The number of sub-accounts does make matters more complicated. However, this isnt the 
reason for the mortgage being in arrears from March 2016 onwards. This was because Mr 
and Mrs G didnt make payments in additional to their contractual monthly payments 
sufficient to clear the arrears. An arrears fee was applied in July 2016, most likely because 
the account was in arrears and Barclays didnt receive a payment that month. 
Mr G says theyll pay the arrears once Barclays explains how they came about. Hes 
suggested an independent audit or forensic analysis of their mortgage account is carried out. 
Mr G is of course free to organise this if he wishes to do so at his own cost. I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to require Barclays to arrange or pay for this. Thats because, based on 
the available evidence, Im not persuaded Barclays made an error when administering Mr 
and Mrs Gs account or that it was incorrect for Barclays to say that their account is in 
arrears.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £300 to 
Mr and Mrs G, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman