DRN-3905027
The complaint
Mrs C complains about damage to her home caused by British Gas Insurance Limited when 
they carried out repairs to her boiler after she made a claim under her home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs C has a HomeCare policy underwritten by British Gas Insurance Limited (BG), which 
covers her boiler, central heating and plumbing, amongst other things.
She made a claim when she was having trouble with her boiler. BG sent an engineer to 
assess the problem. To cut a long story short, due to his negligence, dirty water split into the 
house and on to Mrs Cs upstairs carpets.
BG sent someone to try to clean the carpets, but this proved impossible. So, they offered 
Mrs C roughly half the cost of replacing her hall, landing and stairs carpets  which were laid 
continuously. They said they wouldnt pay the whole cost because the carpets were around 
15 years old.
Mrs C wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to BG. She said she had no intention of 
replacing the carpets  which were still in good repair - prior to the incident, so BG should 
cover the whole cost. And she said the carpets in the hall, stairs and landing also matched 
the ones in her lounge and dining room, so BG should pay to replace them too given that an 
exact match was no longer available.
Mrs C wasnt happy with BGs response to her complaint, so she brought it to our attention. 
Our investigator looked into it. She thought BG should pay the whole cost of replacing the 
damaged hall, stairs and landing carpets (around £2,000) and cover half the cost of 
replacing the undamaged carpets in the dining room and hall (i.e. half of the further cost of 
around £2,500). And pay Mrs C £100 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
At that point BG offered to pay the whole cost of the hall, stairs and landing carpets (£2,000) 
but with no contribution for the lounge and dining room carpets  which they said were not 
continuous with the other areas of the house.
Mrs C didnt accept that offer. And our investigator maintained her position. So, BG asked for 
a final decision from an ombudsman.
I agreed with our investigators view that the complaint should be upheld. But I disagreed 
about what BG needed to do to put things right. So, I issued a provisional decision. This 
allowed both Mrs C and BG the chance to provide further information or evidence and/or to 
comment on my thinking before I issue my final decision in this case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that the BG engineer caused the escape of water in Mrs Cs 
house which led to the damage to her carpets. Mrs C says she had no intention of 
replacing he carpets in her house until that happened, and I have absolutely no 
reason to disbelieve her.
We take the view that insurers, when they are settling a claim relating to damage to 
one or more parts of a matching set of items, should replace the damaged items and 
pay half the cost of replacing the undamaged items. Because that appears to us to 
be the fairest way to resolve that kind of issue.
In this case though, BG arent settling a claim for damage to an item or items which 
are part of a matching set. Theyre paying for damage caused not by an accident or 
insured event but by the errors made by their own agent.
Where thats the case, we take the view that usually wed expect the insurer to cover 
the cost of replacing the whole set of matching items. Primarily because the damage 
is their fault. And, as Mrs C has pointed out, otherwise you have a policyholder 
incurring a cost theyd never planned or intended to incur, simply because of an error 
by the insurer or their agent which caused damage.
I should be clear then that if I believed that all of the carpets in Mrs Cs house were a 
matching set, Id be asking BG to pay the full cost of replacing all of them.
However, as present, given the information and evidence I currently have, I cant 
reasonably conclude that the carpets are all part of a matching set. Ill explain why.
I dont think theres any dispute here that the hall, stairs and landing carpets all match 
and are laid continuously, without any divide between them. For that reason, it would 
be unfair if BG had said, for example, that theyd replace the landing carpet alone, 
leaving Mrs C with a clear mismatch between landing and stairs.
But from what I can see from the limited photographs we have on file at the moment, 
the lounge and dining room areas are divided from the hall outside. There are, 
essentially, doorways between them, with door frames and  and this is the key point 
 dividers running across the doorway opening on the floor.
We take the view that usually, where rooms are divided in that way, the carpets 
either side of the divider are not part of a matching set.
I understand this will be disappointing for Mrs C given that she chose to have all the 
floors in the relevant parts of her house covered in the same carpet. And I 
understand that it might seem a somewhat arbitrary decision to draw a line based on 
whether there are room dividers or not.
However, Id ask her to understand that the line does have to be drawn somewhere. 
It cant be fair to expect an insurer to pay to replace all of a houses interior 
furnishings, for example, because one small corner of a carpet or floor is damaged. 
And that leaves us with some difficult decisions to make about where to draw the line 
on matching sets.
If Mrs C has further evidence or photographs to persuade me that her carpets were 
in fact laid continuously and part of a matching set (according to our usual definition), 
she has the chance to provide that now in response to this provisional decision.In the absence of any further persuasive evidence or argument though, my 
provisional decision is that BG should pay the complete cost of replacing Mrs Cs 
hall, stairs and landing carpets. And pay her £100 in compensation for her trouble 
and upset. But I wont be asking them to make any contribution to the cost of 
replacing the lounge or dining room carpets.
For the sake of clarity, Mrs C had an estimate to replace her hall, stairs and landing 
carpets at a cost of £2,000. This was obtained some time ago. And Mrs C has 
pointed out to us that it didnt include the cost of replacing the underlay  which may 
be needed, at least in some areas.
Im minded to require BG to pay the cost of replacing the carpet now (prices may 
have increased)  including any underlay that the carpet fitter believes is required, if 
Mrs C can provide them with an updated estimate. It goes without saying that the 
new estimate must be for the same carpet quoted originally.
For those reasons, I said that I was minded to require BG to pay the full (current) cost of 
replacing Mrs Cs hall, stairs and landing carpets (with underlay if necessary) and to pay 
Mrs C £100 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
The responses to my provisional decision
BG responded to my provisional decision to confirm that the £100 compensation has been 
paid to Mrs C. They also said they would process any new quotation for the hall, stairs and 
landing carpets provided by Mrs C.
Mrs C responded in some detail. She disagrees with my provisional decision, essentially 
because she still doesnt think its fair that she has to carry the cost of replacing her lounge 
and dining room carpets (in order to have them be an exact match for her hall, stairs and 
landing carpet) because BGs contractor made a fundamental mistake when he allowed the 
dirty water to escape whilst distracted by a phone call.
She says the use of a divider is a normal way to fit a carpet in rooms of different shapes and 
points out that given the shape of her lounge and dining room it would be impossible to fit a 
continuous carpet without dividers.
She thinks this a grey area  and some insurers would accept that a carpet was continuous 
even if there were dividers. And she says the divider between lounge and dining room is only 
there because adaptations had to be made to the house when her husband became 
seriously ill. 
Mrs C says the carpets were all laid at one time and as a set  as shes shown by providing 
the order and receipt. And she sent a number of photographs to show that the carpets 
currently match and are separated only by slim dividers in the lounge and dining room. 
Mrs C has also provided up-to-date quotations. These are for: the hall, stairs and landing 
carpet  at £2,600 including VAT; the lounge and dining room  at £3,025 including VAT; 
and underlay for all areas  at £750 (its not specified as to whether this includes VAT).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Cs arguments in response to my provisional decision - and I understand her frustration about the service she received from BG and their contractor. But nothing in 
her response to my provisional decision has caused me to change my mind about the 
appropriate outcome to this case.
I dont think theres any dispute that the rooms in question are separated by dividers. And 
that being the case, as I explained in my provisional decision, our view is that the carpets 
arent part of a matching set. 
So, I remain of the view that it wouldnt be fair to ask BG to replace the carpets throughout 
the house even though they were very clearly responsible for the damage to the landing 
carpet.
In terms of the estimates provided by Mrs C, the one for the lounge and dining room carpets 
isnt relevant, because Im not going to ask BG to pay for those carpets. The one for the hall, 
stairs and landing has increased from £2,000 to £2,600. Thats not surprising given the time 
elapsed and the current economic climate. 
The one for the underlay is more problematic because it covers all of the carpets under one 
price - £750 (and its not clear whether that includes VAT). And, in line with the above, Im 
going to require BG only to pay for the hall, stairs and landing underlay.
Mrs C may wish to ask her provider to clarify how much of the £750 underlay costs relate to 
the hall, stairs and landing  and whether that cost includes VAT. And then provide that 
evidence to BG too.
Putting things right
As per my provisional decision, Im going to require BG to pay for replacement of Mrs Cs 
hall, landing and stairs carpets, at the price quoted to Mrs C by her provider  and for any 
associated underlay costs. 
BG should provide a prompt cash settlement as soon as Mrs C provides them (not us) with 
the estimates. 
I should clarify for Mrs Cs information that BG would be entitled  if they wished - to pay any 
VAT element of that cost (which is easily calculable from the overall estimate) only on receipt 
of an invoice to show that the carpets have actually been bought and fitted.
BG have provided evidence that the £100 compensation for her trouble and upset has been 
paid to Mrs C. So, theres nothing more for them to do on that front. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited must, on receipt of the relevant suppliers estimates from 
Mrs C, pay for the replacement of the carpets in Mrs Cs hall, stairs and landing (including 
the cost of any associated underlay). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Neil MarshallOmbudsman