DRN-2430799
The complaint
Miss M says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2008 at the same time as Miss M
applied for an Egg credit card. The policy gave Miss M accident, sickness and
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Canada Square Operations disagreed so the
complaint was passed to me. 
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator and so issued a provisional decision (an 
extract from which follows and forms part of this final decision). I asked both parties to send 
me any comments or new information by 11 December 2020.
Extract from my provisional decision
Our adjudicator said as Miss M had a pre-existing medical condition at the time of the 
sale, he didnt think she wouldnt have taken out the PPI had the relevant exclusions 
been pointed out to her. Canada Square Operations disagreed saying the exclusions 
were made clear at the point of sale.
Whilst Miss M did have a pre-existing medical condition, from what shes told us it didnt
impact her day-to-day life, at the time of the sale she wasnt taking any medication for it 
and it had never caused her to take time off work. So I dont think she would have 
expected to need to make a related claim. This means even if I found that Canada 
Square failed to make clear the exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions, I 
dont think Miss M wouldve made a different decision had it pointed it out more 
effectively. On balance, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
the other aspects of the sale
Miss M says PPI was just included as part of her package with her credit card. I have 
looked at the screens she would have completed when applying for her credit card. She 
would have been given the option to select or decline PPI with the options Yes, I want to 
protect my repayments or No, I understand it is my responsibility to keep up my 
repayments should I fall ill or lose my job. They were set out with equal prominence. 
Canada Square Operations has provided a copy of the application report which shows 
the data Miss M provided during her application. This confirms she selected PPI.
Overall, I think Canada Square Operations made it clear to Miss M the PPI was optional 
and she agreed to take it out. I can understand she might not remember this given how 
long ago the sale was.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M, so it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable for her. It was up to Miss M to decide whether the policy was right 
for her, bearing in mind her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was sick or 
lost her job.
Its possible Canada Square Operations didnt give Miss M all the information about the 
PPI that she needed before she made her decision. But Miss M chose to take out the 
policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. I have already discussed the 
exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions, and it seems she wasnt affected by 
any of the other exclusions or limitations. I dont know when the cost was first made 
clear. But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it 
unlikely Miss M wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided.
But Canada Square Operations has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M
because:
-Canada Square Operations got a high level of commission and profit share (more
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because
Canada Square Operations didnt tell Miss M, that was unfair.
-To put that right, Canada Square Operations has paid back the amount of
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think
that is fair in this case.
Neither Miss M nor Canada Square Operations responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
As neither party provided any comments or new evidence following my provisional decision, 
I have no reason to change the findings or the outcome I set out in it. It follows I am not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Miss M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I am not awarding any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman