DRN-3617526
The complaint
Mr T complains about PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA and the way they processed an 
attempted payment he made to his credit account balance. 
What happened
Mr T held a credit account with PayPal, that had a £500 limit. On 6 January, Mr T attempted 
to make a payment of £250, with his balance near the limit. Mr T says his online balance 
automatically updated to show the £250 had been taken at this time.
So, Mr T proceeded to make another transaction using his account for roughly the same 
amount hed paid off. But on 14 January, PayPal e-mailed Mr T to make him aware the £250 
payment he made on 6 January had been rejected and that a new payment needed to be 
arranged. Mr T made a second payment of £250 on this date, which was approved and 
brought Mr T back under his credit limit. But Mr T was unhappy, so he raised a complaint.
Mr T didnt think PayPal had acted, or processed the payment he made, fairly within the 
terms and conditions of his account. He thought it was reasonable for him to assume the first 
£250 payment he made had been cleared, as it reduced his available balance. So, he didnt 
think PayPal were then fair to reject the payment, as well as charging me an additional £12 
fee. So, Mr T wanted the £12 fee to be refunded, any negative information to be removed 
from his credit file and to be compensated £250 for the upset the situation caused him.
PayPal responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They explained payments made into an 
account can take some time to process. And in this situation, they explained Mr Ts bank had 
rejected the payment due to there being insufficient funds in the paying account. PayPal 
didnt think they were responsible for this decision and so, they didnt think they needed to 
compensate Mr T. But they acknowledged Mr T was unhappy with the service he received 
so they refunded him the £12 fee, which they stated was for a late payment, not going over 
the limit of the account. And they confirmed no information had been reported to Mr Ts 
credit file. Mr T remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought PayPals terms 
and conditions couldve made it clearer to Mr T that payments made into the credit account 
may take some time to process. So, they recognised the confusion this may have caused. 
But they didnt think PayPal were responsible for Mr Ts paying bank not authorising the 
transaction due to insufficient funds. And they were satisfied PayPal had processed the 
transaction as they usually would. So, they thought PayPals decision to refund the £12 fee, 
plus confirming no information was reported to Mr Ts credit file, was fair and they didnt think 
PayPal needed to do anything more.
Mr T didnt agree. And Mr T provided further information showing that payments made since 
had not automatically reduced his balance like the payment he made in January 2022. Our 
investigator considered this alongside further information provided by PayPal. And while they 
accepted it seemed as though different payments took differing amounts of time to reflect on 
an online balance, they didnt think this altered the initial view they reached. Mr T remained 
unhappy with this, so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint had on Mr T. I appreciate Mr T made an 
effort to ensure hed made a payment to his PayPal credit account before making another 
purchase. And I dont dispute Mr Ts testimony that his balance reflected the payment he 
made instantaneously, leading him to believe he had the necessary credit left to make the 
purchase without going over his credit limit.
So, when Mr T was made aware this payment hadnt gone through, and that hed failed to 
make a minimum payment for the month and exceeded his credit limit, I can understand why 
hed be left both confused and unhappy. And I can appreciate why Mr T would feel the £12 
PayPal charged was unfair and why he would be concerned about the impact this may have 
had on his credit file.
But for me to say PayPal should do something more than they have already, Id first need to 
be satisfied that they did something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to work 
within the terms and conditions of the account when they processed the payment made by 
Mr T. Or, if I think they did work within these, that they acted unfairly when doing so. For 
example, that they processed the payment in a different way to what they normally would do. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
PayPal have already refunded the £12 fee Mr T was charged and confirmed that no 
information was reported to Mr Ts credit file. As these actions have already been completed 
and were part of the compensation Mr T was seeking, I dont intend to discuss these any 
further. Instead, Ive focused on whether I think PayPal should pay Mr T additional 
compensation, which he believes they should. 
I think its important to make clear that our service is unable to comment upon, or direct 
PayPal to change, their business processes as these are part of their own commercial 
decisions which only the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, have authority 
over. So, Im unable to comment on PayPals choice of payment processor, or the way in 
which they decide to process customer payments.
But I can consider PayPals actions for this specific transaction, to ensure they acted fairly. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account, which states that The amount you 
owe us will be reduced by all cleared payments made into the Credit Account. Mr T has said 
when he made the payment, the balance on the account reduced. So, based on this term, 
Mr T assumed the payment had cleared. And I can understand why Mr T would assume this.
PayPal have since confirmed that payments can take up to seven days to process and clear. 
While I dont think this is unreasonable as all other lenders and banks will work to similar 
times, I think PayPal couldve made this clearer in their terms which may have avoided the 
confusion here.
But even so, I dont think I can say PayPal have acted unfairly when reducing the account 
balance, as I think its reasonable for PayPal to assume that the payment would clear. 
PayPal have explained they have to do this to ensure that there is no impact to a customers credit file. This is because if they waited for official clearance of the payment, customers 
making minimum payments to the account in the days before a payment deadline may miss 
the said deadline, leading to a missed payment being recorded through no fault of their own. 
And from the information Ive seen, I think its clear that different payment methods took 
differing times to process and clear. And this then impacted the amount of time it took for a 
balance to update to reflect the assumed cleared payment.
I think its unfortunate that on this occasion, the balance updated instantaneously, which led 
Mr T to assume the payment had cleared and so, he was able to make another purchase. 
And I do appreciate why Mr T feels PayPal were unfair to create this assumption. But, 
crucially, the payment didnt clear due to there being insufficient funds in Mr Ts paying bank 
account. And I think it was Mr T, not PayPal, who had oversight of this account and the 
balance is contained. So, I think Mr T had a responsibility to ensure this account had a 
sufficient balance and Mr T wouldve been able to see from this account that the £250 hadnt 
yet been fully processed.
So, while I do recognise the inconvenience this situation caused Mr T, I dont think its arisen 
from an error PayPal made. I think they processed the payment as they would usually do. 
And although I do think their terms and conditions could be clearer, I dont think the impact 
on Mr T should warrant any further compensation. PayPal have refunded Mr T the £12 fee to 
ensure he hasnt incurred a financial loss. And theyve confirmed Mr Ts credit file hasnt 
been impacted. So, I dont think PayPal need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about PayPal (Europe) Sarl 
et Cie SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman