DRN-4379191
The complaint
Miss P complains that N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge 
Finance) irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase agreement that she couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
In July 2018 Miss P acquired a vehicle financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Northridge Finance. Miss P was required to make 47 monthly repayments of £205.97 and 
one final repayment of £5,581 if Miss P wanted to keep the vehicle at the end of the 
agreement. The total amount repayable under the agreement was £15,571.61. Miss P and 
her representative for the complaint believe Northridge Finance failed to complete adequate 
affordability checks. Miss P says that if it had it wouldve been clear that the agreement 
wasnt affordable.
Northridge Finance disagreed. It said it carried out an adequate affordability check including 
credit bureau data that it felt made a strong case for approval of the agreement. It found no 
existing financial commitments which would impair Miss Ps ability to repay and thought that 
her income of £15,000 a year was enough to service the monthly payments of £205.97. It 
said its checks showed Miss P had no indications of financial stress or indebtedness.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. They thought 
Northridge Finances checks werent proportionate and that it acted unreasonably when 
approving the finance. 
Miss P agreed, but Northridge Finance disagreed. It stated that the Investigators opinion 
didnt give enough weight to the checks it did complete, and retrospectively applied credit 
assessment criteria from 2023 which wasnt industry practice in 2018. It felt our Investigator 
was suggesting that automated scoring systems should no longer be used and that there 
was no onus on Miss P to provide accurate data at the point of sale. It said Miss P had clear 
use of the agreement  quoting the miles driven with the vehicle during the period  and that 
shed signed a declaration at the time confirming the agreement was affordable to her.
On receipt of new information from Miss P our Investigator revised his suggested settlement 
for the complaint. Northridge Finance still disagreed, it stated that a genuine complaint would 
not be made four years after the fact, and that it was only the involvement of a claims 
management company that induced Miss P to complain. It reiterated that it felt our 
Investigators opinion put no responsibility on Miss P at the point of sale.
It asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
Northridge Finance has suggested that our Investigator has retrospectively applied criteria 
from 2023 which wasnt industry practice when the agreement was taken out in 2018. So, I 
thought it important to highlight some of the rules and guidance in place at the time 
Northridge Finance lent to Miss P.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Miss P took out her 
agreement with Northridge Finance.  Its rules and guidance obliged Northridge Finance to 
lend responsibly. Northridge Finance needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to 
assess whether a borrower could afford to meet its repayments in a sustainable manner over 
the lifetime of the agreement. This was set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC 5.3.1(G) stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customer's 
ability to repay the credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to 
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments without undue 
difficulty - using regular income, avoiding further borrowing to meet payments and making 
timely repayments over the life of the agreement without having to realise security or assets 
(CONC 5.3.1G (6)).
The FCA didnt specify what exact level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment. But it did say that the level of detail depended on the type of credit, the amount 
of credit being granted and the associated risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2.4G (2)).
So, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. Id expect a lender to 
seek more assurance the lower a persons income, the higher the amount of credit being 
applied for and the longer the term of the agreement. Any responsibility on the part of the 
customer would not limit or reduce these expectations.
When considering the rules and guidance in place in July 2018, Northridge Finance needed 
to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to assess the potential for the 
credit agreement to adversely impact Miss Ps financial situation. It is from this standpoint 
and criteria that Ive approached my decision.
Northridge Finance have also contended the authenticity of the complaint, on the grounds 
that it was brought four years after the event complained of, and in their opinion was only 
induced due to the involvement of a claims management company. It feels that a reasonable 
person would not delay concerns or contact for four years had there been a genuine 
grievance. 
Ive considered these points carefully, but I fail to see how bringing a complaint four years 
after the event makes it any less genuine. Northridge Finance will be aware that our jurisdiction accommodates for complaints raised far longer than four years after the event 
complained of. There are a multitude of reasons why a customer might not complain 
instantly, and its also perfectly acceptable for a customer to only decide to complain after 
speaking with a claims management company. Many complaints are brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman in this manner. In any case, as Miss Ps complaint has been brought within the 
time limits of our jurisdiction, Im satisfied that it should be investigated.
In this case, there are two overarching questions that I need to answer to fairly and 
reasonably decide Miss Ps complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did Northridge Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Miss P would be able to repay her loan without experiencing significant 
adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss P wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Northridge Finance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Northridge Finance complete a reasonable and proportionate affordability check?
Im not satisfied that Northridge Finance gathered a reasonable amount of information from 
Miss P about her income and expenditure prior to approving the finance. Northridge 
Finances searches found that Miss Ps annual income was around £15,000. This meant the 
total amount repayable under the agreement was more than Miss P would make in a year 
and the monthly repayments were a sizeable amount of her income even before taking 
account of Miss Ps committed expenditure.
Northridge Finance says that Miss Ps application was automatically approved by its credit 
scoring system. It says its credit checks showed Miss P had no existing financial 
commitments that might impair her ability to repay, and it felt her income was significant 
enough to service a monthly agreement of £205.97 per month. Its credit bureau data also 
demonstrated Miss P had previous agreements with higher monthly repayments that had run 
without any missed repayments. In conclusion it felt none of its checks raised any concerns 
or showed any indication of financial stress. Northridge Finance has provided a copy of the 
credit check it completed and Ive considered the information it contains carefully. Im not 
satisfied enough consideration was given to the personal risk posed to Miss P.
Whilst there appears to be no history of missed payments the information provided shows 
two credit cards which are effectively at their credit limit. This may have been an indication 
that Miss P was already struggling to manage her finances. As well as this there was 
another loan in place which alone accounted for around 14% of the income Northridge 
Finance recorded at the time. This loan combined with the proposed hire purchase 
agreement repayments amounted to around 30% of Miss Ps total recorded monthly income, 
before any consideration towards other costs such as credit cards, rent, utility bills, food, 
petrol and insurance.
I want to be clear that Ive considered Northridge Finances position about the type of checks 
that it did complete. And I understand that it felt none of the searches it completed 
demonstrated any risk of financial stress. However, considering the circumstances already 
mentioned Im not satisfied that these checks adequately gathered a proportionate amount 
of information. Northridge Finance were lending Miss P a significant amount of money which 
required payments over a four-year period. Its checks failed to answer how much Miss P 
actually had left to spend from her relatively low income after her existing commitments. 
Whilst I understand Northridge Finance relied in part on a history of previous agreements being managed well at higher monthly repayment amounts, her financial circumstances may 
well have changed by the point this particular agreement was being considered.
Northridge Finance have also highlighted that Miss P signed the agreement confirming that 
she understood the credit agreement to be affordable for her  and I dont doubt that at the 
time she believed this to be true, but Im also not satisfied that this confirmation would 
remove the need for Northridge Finance to complete proportionate affordability checks for 
her specific circumstances and come to its own conclusion.
Given the size of the lending, the monthly repayments, the length of agreement, the 
information in Miss Ps credit file and her relatively low income, I think it would have been 
proportionate for Northridge Finance to have enquired about Miss Ps expenditure  
including costs such as food, petrol, utilities and housing. Without knowing what her regular 
committed expenditure was Northridge Finance wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreement was affordable for her specific circumstances. 
As Northridge Finance dont appear to have sought a reasonable understanding of Miss Ps 
total committed expenditure, I dont think it carried out reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before lending. Northridge Finance needed to do more in the 
circumstances before agreeing to lend. Without knowing what her regular committed 
expenditure was, Northridge Finance wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of 
whether the agreement was affordable for her. 
Im satisfied Northridge Finance didnt complete proportionate affordability checks, but this 
doesnt automatically mean it failed to make a fair a lending decision.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss P could sustainably 
repay the borrowing?
Ive considered what Northridge Finance would likely have found out if it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. I cant be certain what Miss P would have 
told Northridge Finance had it asked about her regular expenditure. I dont think Northridge 
Finance necessarily needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of anything 
else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Miss Ps statements from 
the three months leading up to the application.
The statements show Miss P was receiving an average of around £1,230 a month in income 
from her salary and benefits. Her regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was 
around £1,100. In calculating these amounts Ive included any applicable payments for her 
credit commitments, housing costs, utilities, food, fuel and other ongoing costs. Ive also 
removed Miss Ps previous motor finance agreement that was ended upon obtaining this hire 
purchase agreement.
Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement wasnt affordable for 
Miss P. Altogether her income and expenditure at the time satisfies me that the agreement 
did not appear to be affordable. On average Miss P was left with around £130 of disposable 
income. This did not leave enough to cover the monthly payments of £205.97, let alone 
leave any amount for emergency costs. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Northridge 
Finance acted reasonably when approving the finance.
Taking this into account, its clear that if Northridge Finance had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks it would most likely have found that Miss P couldnt 
sustainably afford the hire purchase agreement. Im satisfied that it now needs to put things 
right.Did Northridge Finance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Im not persuaded from the submissions made to date that Northridge Finance acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in some other way. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Northridge Finance ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair 
for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Miss P has already 
settled the agreement in full by part-exchanging the vehicle in March 2020. So, Miss P did 
have use of the car until March 2020. I think its fair that Miss P pays for that use, but I dont 
think that the monthly repayments under the agreement are a fair reflection of what fair 
usage for the vehicle should be. This is because a large proportion of the repayments went 
towards repaying interest. 
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage ought to be. However, in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on 
the agreement, the likely use Miss P had of the car and the costs she would likely have 
incurred to stay mobile if shed never entered into this agreement. In doing so, I think a fair 
amount Miss P should pay is £170 for each month she had use of the vehicle up to the point 
it was part-exchanged, and the agreement was settled in March 2020.
Miss P also part-exchanged her existing vehicle when taking out the finance in question  
the agreement shows the part-exchange amount was £310.02. Northridge Finance should 
refund this amount as well to as closely put Miss P back in the position she wouldve been in 
were it not for the finance being unfairly approved.
To put things right N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance should:
Refund £310.02 which represents the part-exchange amount, adding 8% simple 
interest per year* from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund all the monthly payments Miss P made, less £170 per month she had use of 
the vehicle.
If Miss P has paid more than the fair usage figure, N.I.I.B. Group Limited should 
refund any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or:
If Miss P has paid less than the fair usage figure, N.I.I.B. Group Limited should 
arrange an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Once N.I.I.B. Group Limited has received the fair usage amount, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on Miss Ps credit file regarding this agreement.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires N.I.I.B. Group Limited to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to above. N.I.I.B. Group Limited must give Miss P a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as 
Northridge Finance to put things right in the manner set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman