DRN-3760878
The complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc kept her passport for about 18 months without telling 
her that it had it.
What happened
Miss M says she went to a TSB branch in September 2021 and was given her passport by a 
security guard. She says the passport had been at the TSB branch since she opened the 
account in May 2020. Miss M says she had looked everywhere for the passport and applied 
for new passport at a cost of £70. She says she was unable to go on holiday as a result and 
says she didnt receive any messages from TSB about the passport. Miss M would like 
compensation of £100.
TSB says Miss M opened the account in February 2020 and not May 2020. It says the 
passport was left in its branch on 13 May 2020 and it added a note to Miss Ms account. TSB 
says there were no transactions that day that required a passport and says it made 
telephone calls to Miss M about the passport. It says Miss Ms account had a marker for 
returned correspondence and so didnt write to her and couldnt message her online as its 
systems do not allow that. TSB says it doesnt have a security guard at its branch and says 
Miss M told it she had recently been looking for the passport (the day before) but didnt tell it 
she had applied for a replacement.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator initially didnt uphold it. The 
investigator thought TSB had tried to call Miss M and was correct not to write to her. The 
investigator considered further information from the parties and concluded that if there was 
any contact by TSB then there would be a record. And that there was limited information or 
records about why an address marker had been placed on Miss Ms account. The 
investigator recommended TSB pay £100 compensation.
Miss M says she cancelled the new passport application and says she did receive letters 
from TSB.
TSB says there was no reason for Miss M to have a passport in branch and says Miss M can 
provide her telephone records to confirm calls were made to her.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and said that I didnt uphold this complaint and 
didnt consider that compensation was justified. I also provisionally thought both sides to this 
complaint could have done more to resolve this issue far sooner.
I was satisfied that Miss M opened a TSB account in February 2020 and not May 2020 as 
she told us. And I said I had not seen any evidence that she was required to produce her 
passport to TSB on 13 May 2020. So, couldnt be sure that TSB required Miss M to provide it 
with her passport and then forgot to return it to her. I said if TSB had required the passport, 
for example to complete a transaction, then I would have expected to have seen a record of 
that with the transaction recorded on an account statement. I thought it likely on balance that 
Miss M may have dropped the passport by accident in the branch.
TSB told us that its staff did try and telephone Miss M. Miss M says she didnt receive those 
calls. I had no reason to doubt what TSB said about that and could see when Miss M did 
attend the branch that staff recognised her and were aware of the passport. I thought that 
provided evidence that TSB was aware of the situation and made it more likely on balance 
that it did try and call her. I appreciated Miss M says it was a security guard that recognised 
her, but I thought on balance that it was TSB staff as it says it doesnt employ a security 
guard at the branch.
I appreciated that the investigator questions if TSB had a record of the actual letter that was 
returned which led to the address marker being added to Miss Ms record. I hoped that TSB 
would clarify that point before my final decision but thought on balance it was up to TSB to 
decide if there was a risk that Miss M may not receive any letters in the circumstances.
I accepted that on face value TSB could have sent Miss M a message online asking her to 
contact it. I appreciated TSB says its systems do not allow that, but I said its difficult to see 
why a letter couldnt be uploaded to Miss Ms online banking. I said I hoped TSB could clarify 
that but for the reasons I explained, that explanation was unlikely to persuade me to order 
compensation.
I could see Miss M told us in her complaint form that she had applied for a new passport 
which cost her £70. She later told the investigator that she cancelled the application. It was 
not clear if she did pay the £70. In any event I couldnt see what real impact the loss of her 
passport had. I had not seen any evidence of the holiday she says she was unable to take or 
that she did pay the £70 for a new passport. I said no doubt Miss M can clarify that or 
provide further evidence. And can provide evidence of the application for a new passport as 
well as when it was made.
Overall, I was satisfied that Miss M was responsible for her passport. I had not seen any 
evidence TSB required the passport. And I thought it likely, that in any event, the impact on 
Miss M in not having access to the passport was limited. I said I would have expected her to 
have realised if she gave it to TSB that it hadnt returned it. I also said that as Miss M didnt 
ask TSB about the passport, then I thought that suggested the passport had been left in the 
branch by accident. But I made clear that I thought TSB could have considered writing to 
Miss M via online banking or e-mailing her to contact it. I didnt think provisionally those 
failures to do so however justified compensation.
Miss M has replied to my provisional view and says the passport was not returned when the 
account was opened and says TSB does have a security guard. She says she doesnt carry 
her passport with her and says this complaint is not about compensation. Miss M hasnt 
provided any evidence of the new passport application or cost.
TSB says it cant send customers an ad hoc letter online and maintains a marker was placed 
on Miss Ms account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision. I accept there will be unanswered questions here.
I accept that TSB has said it cant send ad hoc letters as I thought it ought to have 
considered online. I am sure Miss M appreciates that we are not TSBs regulator and we 
cant direct it do something it cant do. I also accept that Miss M fairly questions why TSB 
couldnt simply contact her father as his name was contained on the rear of the passport. I 
agree with Miss M that TSB could reasonably have considered such an option but overall 
dont think that failure had any real impact or justifies compensation. I say that as I made 
clear in my provisional decision that I cant see any evidence the loss of the passport had 
any real impact and have not seen evidence of a new passport application.
I made clear in my provisional decision that I was satisfied Miss M opened the account with 
the passport some four months before she says TSB required it in May 2020. So, I cant be 
sure the passport was retained as part of the account opening process when that took place 
far earlier than the May 2020 date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman