DRN-1699932
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr A entered into an agreement with VWFS to finance the purchase of a used car on 20 
November 2018. In October 2019 Mr A took his car to the main dealership as there was a 
fault with the gearbox. The car was found to have a significant oil leak in the gearbox. The 
dealership refused to repair the car under warranty because it said that Mr A had modified 
the car, and this had voided the warranty. So, Mr A complained to VWFS.
VWFS rejected Mr As complaint because it said that although there were faults with the car, 
these were not there or developing at the point of sale. Mr A wasnt happy with that response 
and so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. Our 
investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to say that the faults the car had now 
were there or developing at the point of sale and so VWFS couldnt be held responsible for 
the costs of repair.
Mr A didnt agree and replied to say in summary that he had never modified the car as 
alleged and had only ever used the main dealership. He said that the warranty should pay 
for the repairs.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr A - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price 
that was paid for it.
The Consumer Rights Act sets out that if a fault occurs within the first 6 months it is 
presumed to be present at the point of supply, but after 6 months, the responsibility is on the 
consumer to show that the fault was there or developing at the point of supply. As this fault 
with the gearbox presented 11 months after supply, I need to be satisfied that it was there or 
developing when the car was supplied to Mr A.
The car that was supplied to Mr A was over three years old, had been driven for 26,700 
miles and had a price of £18,650. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means 
that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  
but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors. Clearly, it can be 
reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and require replacement of items 
more often than a brand-new car.
By the time the car was inspected in October 2019 the car had covered over 23,000 miles in 
the 11 months since Mr A had taken delivery of the car. 
An inspection of the car concluded that the car did have faults with the gearbox leaking oil. 
Theres clearly a fault with the gearbox but Ive seen no evidence to show that this fault was 
present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr A. If the fault had been there it 
seems unlikely that Mr A would have been able to travel the miles that he has done without 
noticing the leak or it having some other impact on the performance of the car. So Im not 
persuaded that the issues the car has now were present or developing when the car was 
supplied to Mr A. Because of that I cant say that VWFS are responsible for the cost of 
repairs.
I understand the point Mr A is making with respect to the modification and warranty issue. I 
cant make the manufacturer repair the car under the warranty as this service can only deal 
with complaints about financial businesses. Whether or not Mr A has modified the car and 
invalidated the manufacturers warranty isnt something I can consider. I sympathise with Mr 
A for the issues that hes had with the car and for the repairs that it now needs  and I am 
sure that he is disappointed that the manufacturer wont cover the cost of the repairs under 
the warranty. But Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A and so I cant ask the finance 
company (VWFS) to do anything more.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
12 November 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman