DRN-3622173
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Trading 212 UK Limited suspended trading for several penny 
stock instruments he held through their platform. He says this meant he couldnt close his 
position or buy more shares to average down on his price, resulting in a loss. 
What happened
Mr S complained to Trading 212 in April 2021 after it suspended the purchase of US 
microcap penny stock instruments on its platform. Mr S has three shareholdings of this 
nature held through them. 
Trading 212 responded to say that due to exceptional market conditions at the time, they 
identified a risk to the business in its exposure to penny stocks. They clarified that the influx 
of orders had triggered concerns and they temporarily were suspending the purchase of 
penny stocks that were highly illiquid and with a market cap in the tens of millions. They said 
that their terms and conditions entitled them to do so. 
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into it and he thought that Trading 212 had acted fairly. He said whilst he sympathised with 
Mr S for having to watch his investments fall in value without being able to do anything, he 
thought Trading 212 had acted fairly. 
Mr S accepted the view of the investigator on two of his three holdings. However, he 
remained unhappy that one wasnt tradeable despite finding that Trading 212s intermediary 
allowed it to be traded freely on their platform. 
Our investigator found Trading 212s explanation fair. It said that it couldnt comment on the 
intermediarys position but that they have their own terms and risk controls and it is a very 
different situation for them. He also said that just because the intermediarys direct clients 
had access to something it doesnt mean it had to be offered to all businesses using its 
services. 
Mr S remained unhappy on this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. My decision focuses only on the stock and complaint points that Mr S says 
he remains unhappy with. 
I should start by saying that I agree that the terms did, in principle, allow Trading 212 to take 
the action it did. Term 5.12 says that they have the right to suspend and/or remove from 
the Trading Platform any Financial instrument and Market Hours at our sole discretion. 
Term 4.9 says, we may take any action which we, in our reasonable discretion, consider 
desirable to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Term 25.1 also says that Trading 212 shall incur no liability whatsoever for any partial or full 
default of our obligations by reason of any cause or event beyond our reasonable control. 
They try to define this in term 25.2 as any of the following: the suspension or closure of 
markets, exchanges the failure of any of our suppliers, and if applicable our intermediate 
broker, agent or principal, dealer or any custodian, sub-custodian, clearing house or 
regulatory or self-regulatory organisation, for any reason to perform its obligations. Whereas 
in any such event we will try to take reasonable steps to mitigate the effect of the said event 
in order to continue our operations and to continue to provide you with services.
However, I still need to be satisfied that they acted in a fair and reasonable way. Its clear 
that there was a significant increase in investing in this stock at the time of suspension. 
Trading 212 has said that due to the illiquidity and the risk it was exposed to, it had to 
suspend further trading. I understand how this will have felt unfair for investors such as Mr S, 
but I think Trading 212 acted fairly. 
It was an action being taken across the industry for various stocks at the time and in regard 
to the concerns of the regulator. It is important to note that such a suspension can prevent 
people investing in instruments that can become worthless. 
Mr S is understandably unhappy that whilst Trading 212 suspended the purchase of this 
stock, the intermediary it uses still allowed it for direct retail clients. However, I am satisfied 
with the explanation given by Trading 212. Their decision is made based on their terms and 
own risk profile. I agree that although the intermediary hasnt suspended trading on their 
platform, doesnt make the decision taken by Trading 212 to be wrong. 
For all these reasons, I dont agree that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld nor that he 
should receive a refund of his losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman