DRN-1294632
 
The complaint
Miss R complains that esure Insurance Limited breached her confidentiality whilst dealing 
with a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
esure left a voice mail message on the phone of one of Miss Rs neighbours. This disclosed 
Miss Rs name and claim number. Miss R said this caused her embarrassment and distress 
as the neighbour was connected to her workplace and other people found out about the 
claim. She also said her mother had been caused embarrassment by the same mistake. 
esure agreed that it had made an error and it offered Miss R £200 compensation. But Miss R 
was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esures 
offer was fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and embarrassment caused to 
Miss R. He explained that we couldnt consider the effect on Miss Rs mother as she wasnt 
the policy holder.
Miss R replied that she remained unhappy and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss R felt embarrassed and very upset by esures error. Shes told us 
that people at her workplace and in the community learnt of the claim because of the 
voicemail message left on the wrong phone. 
When a business makes a mistake, as esure accepts it has done here, we expect it restore 
the consumers position, as far as its possible to do so. And we consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
Miss R thought that the error was more significant because of the prominence of the General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). But its not our role to punish businesses for their 
mistakes. Our role is to sort out complaints about businesses made by consumers in a fair 
way. 
I can see that esure apologised for the error and made sure its staff knew about it to avoid a 
repetition. It also offered Miss R £200 compensation for the distress and upset this caused 
her. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in similar 
situations. So I dont require esure to increase this. Our investigator has already explained that, under the rules that govern us, we cant 
consider the impact the error had on Miss Rs mother. This is because she isnt esures 
policy holder.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21August2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman