DRN-2658123
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) as it hasnt given 
him evidence that it entered him into its monthly savers prize draw (the prize draw) and he 
hasnt ever won anything.
What happened
Mr B opened an instant saver account in January 2019 which entitled him to be included in a 
monthly savers prize draw. He said hed had a similar account with Halifax previously and 
hadnt won anything.
Mr B wanted confirmation that he had been entered in the monthly savers prize draw.  He 
contacted Halifax about this in August 2019. Halifax couldnt confirm that he was registered 
at the time due to a systems issue but was later able to confirm this. It communicated this in 
its final response letter and apologised for being unable to do so before.
 
Mr B asked for monthly evidence to show he was entered into the prize draw, but Halifax 
said it didnt provide regular correspondence to customers to show they are eligible.
 
Mr B has complained that he didnt receive the final response letter sent by Halifax in August 
2019 but Halifax had sent this to the address it held for Mr B and re-sent the letter as 
requested. 
Mr B said he knew he was registered as he could see this online but had no confirmation 
that he was actually entered into the draw. Halifax confirmed again that he had been 
registered for the draw, and that he would be entered so long as he met the eligibility criteria.
Mr B contacted Halifax again in June 2020, asking for detailed evidence to show that he had 
been entered into the prize draw when he was eligible. Halifax said it was unable to provide 
such evidence but that as Mr B was registered, he would be entered into the draw each 
month so long as he met the qualifying criteria. Mr B didnt receive the correspondence sent 
by Halifax about this, but it was sent to his most recent address held by Halifax.
Halifax didnt offer any compensation to Mr B as it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this and brought his case to our service. Our investigator didnt think 
Halifax had done anything wrong.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs instant saver account with Halifax has qualified him for entry into a monthly prize 
draw since January 2019, subject to its eligibility requirements. Hed also previously had an 
instant saver account which provided for entry into a prize draw. 
Mr B has never won a prize and wants confirmation from Halifax that he has been entered 
when he should have been each month. When Mr B first spoke to Halifax, it wasnt able to 
confirm whether he was registered due to a systems issue. It provided this information in the 
letter it sent the next day and apologised. I think that was fair and Its difficult for me to see 
that it couldve done anything more here.
Halifax has said it cannot provide information to show that each customer is entered each 
month. It also said it doesnt tell customers each month whether they are eligible. The 
information I have seen about the prize draw shows that it contacts customers only when 
they win:
Well add your name to the draw every month you qualify. If your name is chosen as one of 
our winners well write to you within a month of the draw, at the address we have for you. We 
may also call you or send an email if we have your details.
I note that there is a section in Halifaxs online banking that shows whether a customer is 
registered, which Mr B acknowledges. And I can also see that Halifax publishes details of 
the winners of the prize draw. 
  
So, overall here, I think that Halifax has shown that Mr B is correctly registered for the draw 
and has provided clear and fair information around this. Its treated him the same as it would 
any other customer who would be eligible for the draw and provided him with relevant 
information  even if that doesnt perhaps go as far as Mr B would like. So, I cant fairly 
require Halifax to treat Mr B differently and provide the additional information he is asking 
for.  
Halifax has told this service that there are rigorous checks in place to ensure that potential 
winners are not unfairly excluded from the draw. It points out that the process of selecting 
winners is random, so it is possible to have customers who have won on more than one 
occasion and other customers who have been entered for a number of years and not won. It 
advises that each monthly draw is adjudicated by an external third party to ensure fairness. 
In the light of this, I dont see any reason to suspect that Mr B has been incorrectly excluded 
from the prize draw.
Regarding the correspondence Mr B didnt receive, I can see that Halifax sent the relevant 
letters to the addresses it held for Mr B at the time they were sent. It updated its records in 
February 2020 when Mr B informed it of his new address. I dont think Halifax did anything 
wrong by doing this and while its unfortunate that Mr B didnt receive the correspondence, I 
cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for any issues with the postal service.
 
In summary, I dont think that Halifax has done anything wrong, so I wont be asking it to do 
anything. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this, but I hope he can understand my reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman