DRN-3737355
The complaint
Ms H complains Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to help her when she was a victim of an 
online scam.
What happened
Ms H has a Santander account from which she made four online payments totalling £425. 
She says she realised the payments were part of a scam the same day so called Santander 
to asking for help. Ms H says she told Santander she was in financial difficulties, but that it 
refused to refund the money whilst it investigated. Ms H says that Santander also gave her 
incorrect information about how she could get financial support whilst she waited for the 
outcome of the investigation. Santander accepts it did.
Santander looked into the payments Ms H had made and agreed they were part of a scam. 
Santander also agreed that it could have done more to prevent the scam but thought Ms H 
could have done more too. So, Santander agreed to refund half the money approximately 
four weeks after Ms H called. Ms H complained to Santander about the fact that that it hadnt 
agreed to a full refund, that it hadnt refunded the money whilst it carried out its investigation 
and that it had given her incorrect information about how she could get financial support.
Santander investigated Ms Hs complaint and, having done so, agreed to a full refund and 
paid an additional £100 in compensation for the delays on top of the £75 it had already paid 
for the incorrect information Ms H had been given about how she could get financial support. 
Ms H complained to us a week later saying that the delays had caused her financial 
difficulties and that she wanted additional compensation.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Hs complaint and said that they didnt think 
Santander had done anything wrong given that it had agreed to a full refund and £175 in 
compensation. Ms H disagreed with our investigator saying that shed nearly lost her house 
because of the delay and that she could get £425 in compensation as that was the amount 
shed gone into debt. She asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, Ive looked into her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander initially decided to offer Ms H a partial refund given that it accepted shed been 
the victim of a scam, that it could have done more to prevent the scam and that Ms H could 
have done so too. Ive seen Santanders reasoning for offering a partial refund and I dont 
disagree. The payments were fees Ms H was told she had to pay for a £5,000 loan shed 
been told shed been accepted for. Ms H hadnt, however, applied for a loan and the 
payments she was asked to make were payments going to personal accounts rather than a 
business account. Ms H hadnt done checks either, despite having seen warnings. 
Santander did, however, change its mind  approximately five weeks after Ms H originally 
called to say she thought shed been scammed and approximately ten days after Ms H 
complained about its original decision. I think that this was a fair thing for Santander to do.
I can see that Ms H told Santander when she reported the scam that she had no money and 
had to buy food for her children. But I can also see that Ms H was making non-essential 
payments after the disputed transactions. So, I dont agree with her that Santander not 
refunding the whole of the money straightaway or not giving her the right information about 
support that was available means Santander ought to pay her £425 in compensation or that 
these actions had the impact Ms H says they did. Instead, I agree with our investigator that 
the compensation Santander has paid to date - £175  along with the full refund is a fair and 
reasonable outcome given the impact that Santanders actions had. So, Im not going to 
uphold this complaint as I agree it wouldnt be fair to ask Santander to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman