DRN-3518190
The complaint
Miss B complains she was the victim of an investment scam and that Nationwide Building 
Society didnt do enough to recover her money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Miss B complains that she was the victim of a scam involving two online payments totalling 
£547.46 (excluding the transaction fees) that she made on 6 July 2022 using a Visa debit 
card connected to her Nationwide current account.
Miss B was contacted via social media by someone who told her she could make money 
from investing in cryptocurrency. The broker asked her to first purchase cryptocurrency 
through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load it onto her online wallet. She 
initially paid £157.19 (with a transaction fee of £4.70) to the exchange company, followed by 
£390.27 (with a transaction fee of £11.67). Once the money had been converted into 
cryptocurrency, it was transferred to an online wallet. Miss B later contacted the exchange 
company who told her shed been the victim of a scam.
Miss B contacted Nationwide to ask it to refund the money shed lost but Nationwide told her 
it couldnt refund the money because shed authorised the payment and she had confirmed 
the payment as genuine via her mobile banking app. It said she would need to report the 
case to Action Fraud UK and/or the police. It also said it couldnt raise a chargeback request 
under Visas Chargeback Scheme because the service provided by the merchant was to 
convert her money into cryptocurrency then transfer the funds to her desired location, which 
it did. 
Miss B complained to Nationwide, but it maintained it couldnt refund her money or raise a 
chargeback request because the cryptocurrency exchange company was a third-party 
merchant whose service was to convert money into cryptocurrency. This service had been 
provided and the cryptocurrency had then been sent to someone elses wallet.
Miss B wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. Our investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. She explained Miss B had authorised the two payments, 
which meant shed given an instruction for Nationwide to make a payment from her account, 
in line with its terms and conditions. Therefore, the starting position was that Miss B was 
liable for the transactions. She went on to explain that while banks are under an obligation to 
follow their customers instructions, Nationwide had a duty to exercise reasonable skill and 
care, to follow good industry practice and take steps to keep Miss Bs accounts safe.
She noted the transaction was flagged as unusual and Nationwide had sent a text to Miss 
Bs asking her to confirm whether the payment was genuine, to which she had replied Y, 
confirming the payment as genuine. Because of this, our investigator concluded Nationwide 
wasnt liable for refunding the transactions. She also explained that while there are certain 
circumstances where banks can ask for payments to be refunded, theres no obligation for 
the bank to raise a chargeback when a customer asks for one and in this case she thought a 
chargeback was unlikely to have been successful because the cryptocurrency was paid into 
an account at Miss Bs request, so the merchant had fulfilled its obligations. Consequently, 
she didnt think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to not raise a chargeback claim.
Miss B wasnt happy with the outcome of her complaint and has asked for her it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. She maintains Nationwide should refund the money because, 
while she did authorise the payments, she only did so because she was the victim of a 
scam. Shes explained she was in a vulnerable situation and has been left with depression 
and without enough money to pay bills.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that although Miss B didnt intend the money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payments. Nationwide is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make. But, where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the 
them even though they authorised the payment.
Miss K has lost the payments that she made to accounts that she held at a cryptocurrency 
exchange company. From the evidence Ive seen, the money went to a genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange company. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and 
therefore the extent of what we would expect Nationwide to have done to protect Miss K is 
restricted to triggers, meaning I need to consider whether the transactions were so unusual 
that Nationwide ought to have intervened to warn Miss K when she tried to make the 
payments.
Nationwide, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts 
and be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. Nationwide has 
shown the first payment was referred and confirmed genuine by Miss B. Ive considered the 
nature of the two payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic 
of how Miss B normally ran her account and I dont think they were. Neither were they for 
particularly large amounts, and they were made to a legitimate company in respect of which 
there were no FCA warnings. So, I dont think they needed to have been flagged by 
Barclays.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by VISA whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Nationwide) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Miss B).
Nationwide is bound by the card scheme operators (Visa in this case) rules. Being the victim 
of a scam doesnt automatically entitle the payer to a refund through the chargeback 
scheme. Nationwide didnt raise a chargeback claim because, for the claim to be successful, 
Miss B wouldve needed to show the cryptocurrency exchange company didnt provide the 
intended service, which it did. Im satisfied therefore that Nationwides conclusion that the 
chargeback claim would be unsuccessful was fair.Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Miss B 
has lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Nationwide is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman