DRN-1618116
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in 1998 when Mr G 
applied for the card in one of the banks branches.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr G didn't agree. 
His representative said, on his behalf and in summary, that:
Mr G had the best type of sickness benefit and savings. The PPI was of the lowest 
quality.
If the cost and benefits had been made clear, together with the optional nature of the 
policy, then Mr G would have declined it. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint because:
Halifax has provided a copy of Mr Gs application form. In all likelihood, the member of staff 
would have filled in the application form electronically during the meeting with Mr G and 
printed it off for signature. As part of this process, the member of staff would have needed 
Mr Gs agreement to the PPI insurance so that the box could be ticked. Mr G would then 
have had time to read through the form, before signing to agree that the details were correct. 
Whilst I can't say exactly what was discussed during the meeting, I think that, overall, Halifax 
made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr G chose to take it. I'm not surprised Mr G can't 
remember this given it took place so long ago.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to make sure it was suitable for him. Hes 
told us he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay if he 
couldn't' work due to sickness or an accident. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI 
wouldve met his monthly repayments for up to 12 months in addition to his sick pay. It also covered him if he'd become unemployed. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit 
for Mr G despite his existing arrangements.
Mr G recalls he had some savings, but he couldn't remember how much. His representative 
said the savings were "significant", but it's not clear why it thinks this. Taking into account Mr 
G told us he took out the card partly to refinance some existing debt, it seems likely that any 
saving he did have were earmarked for another purpose. 
Overall, there's not enough evidence for me to conclude that the PPI was unsuitable for Mr 
G based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr G chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr G would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he would still 
have taken out the policy.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, does have to pay back to Mr G any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman