DRN-2098246
The complaint
Mr As unhappy with Bank of Scotland Plcs (trading as the Halifax) handling of his bank card 
fraud claim.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr A went to his local Halifax branch to cancel his debit card. He was 
worried that he might have responded to a scam message hed received, and that his 
account details were compromised. Mr A was told the card would be cancelled, and a few 
days later he received a new card.
But Mr A later discovered that someone had used his card details to sign up for a 
subscription service  and a payment of nearly £200 had left his account at the end of 
October. Mr A called Halifax to report this and his card was cancelled. Halifax refunded the 
money.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr A complained. Halifax upheld his complaint. It 
acknowledged his card hadnt been cancelled as theyd initially told him. Instead, it was only 
marked as damaged, and this meant the card details were still active. Mr A accepted £180 
compensation - £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused through the bank failing to 
cancel the card and £30 for his call costs. The bank also refunded some further payments 
linked to the subscription service. 
At the end of November 2019, Mr A noticed a payment of £5.99 to another subscription 
service that he hadnt authorised. He reported this to Halifax who refunded it shortly 
afterwards. 
Mr A was unhappy there had been another unauthorised transaction and believed his card 
details were still compromised. He requested his complaint be reopened and that Halifax 
reconsider the amount of compensation awarded to him for the added distress he 
experienced. 
Halifax responded to say there had been no additional bank error. This was because the 
£5.99 payment was linked to a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) which had been set up 
at the end of October 2019 (around the same time as the other disputed transactions). A 
CPA allows a merchant to request payments from a consumers bank account. The bank 
said it wouldnt have been able to cancel this until a payment was taken.  
But Halifax did credit Mr A with a further £25, as it hadnt been able to issue its final 
response when it said it would due to staff illness.
As Mr A remained unhappy with the situation, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint as she thought this transaction was related to 
the original fraud and that the bank couldnt have done anything more. She thought that Mr A 
had already received fair compensation.
Mr A requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I wont be upholding his complaint. I too think that the 
compensation Halifax has offered is fair. Ill explain why. 
Halifax made an error by not cancelling Mr As card at the beginning of October 2019. Its 
accepted this, refunded the fraudulent payments and paid Mr A compensation.
I can completely understand why Mr A was worried that his card details still werent secure - 
a further £5.99 payment of course left his account almost a month later. But this was linked 
to the original fraud. A CPA was set up at the same time. And it looks like this was probably 
done to check that the card details worked. As they did, further fraudulent transactions were 
then made. So, this was part of the same fraud for which Halifax has already paid Mr A 
compensation for its failings. 
Halifax has said that it couldnt cancel the CPA before a charge was debited to Mr As 
account. This is unfortunate as it does appear that that the new CPA was made at the same 
time as the other fraudulent payments were taken. And the bank could have identified at the 
time that this was linked to the fraud. But I understand that the banks processes couldnt 
stop the payment being requested by the subscription service. It would have been better if 
the Halifax had warned Mr A that this might happen and have monitored the account for any 
payments. But I cant say that the bank did anything wrong by waiting to see if a transaction 
went through. When it did, and Mr A reported it, the Halifax refunded the money straight 
away. 
When considering compensation, Ill generally look at all the events that have happened 
from start to finish. I know that Mr A is concerned that hed never have accepted the £180 
offered in the first place if hed known there might be more payments taken. And he was very 
concerned by the subsequent £5.99 transaction. I also understand that Mr A has been a 
victim of fraud before and that he remains worried as he continues to receive texts that he 
thinks may be fraudulent. Im sorry to hear this as I know how difficult it can be for our 
customers after theyve been subjected to fraud.
But the bank didnt commit the fraud here, that was someone else. The bank did make a 
mistake and it has put Mr A back in the position he would have been but for the fraud. Both 
incidents were connected and having considered the compensation offered, I think this was 
a fair amount for the trouble and upset that Mr A experienced through the banks actions.
As soon as Mr A told the bank about the mistake, it put things right. It should of course never 
have happened in the first place - although for the mistakes that the Halifax made, I think 
that £150 compensation, £30 for the call costs and £25 for the service level failing was fair. 
And I dont think it needs to pay further compensation for the subsequent payment that was 
taken, given this was linked to the first and the money was refunded as soon as it was 
discovered.My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. And I dont require that Bank of Scotland 
Plc (trading as the Halifax) needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman