DRN-3872620
The complaint
The trustees of a charity which Ill refer to as M, complain about The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plcs (RBS) decision to close its bank account. 
One of the trustees, who Ill refer to as Mr G has brought the complaint on Ms behalf.
 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to the parties so, I wont repeat it in detail.
Briefly: 
In March 1991 M opened a bank account with RBS (the Account). The Account was 
opened as a personal trust account. 
In December 2021 RBS took the decision to close all their personal trust accounts 
and begun writing to all their affected customers. 
RBSs process identified the Account as falling within that category. And on 4 
January 2022 the bank wrote to Mr G to let him know the banks intention to close the 
Account on 4 July 2022.
In March 2022, Mr G wrote to the bank pointing out the potential impact of the 
proposed closure on M. He appealed to the bank not to close the Account, because 
he said, contrary to its suggestion in the notice hed received, the Account wasnt a 
personal trust account but a charity account. Nonetheless, the bank maintained its 
position and sent further closure notices in April and June 2022.
Mr G continue to make further appeals to the bank not to close the Account. He said 
that M had no alternative account in place and the bank shouldnt therefore send M a 
cheque. He said the trustees were intending to merge M with another charity and that 
they would open a new account when it was practical for them to do so. 
On 4 July 2022 RBS closed the Account and sent M a cheque for the closing balance 
of just under £600. 
In October 2022, the trustees opened a community business account with RBS which 
was suitable for M. They then deposited the cheque RBS had sent to M. 
Although Mr G believed that the bank made a mistake when it closed the Account because 
as he argued, it was not a personal trust account as RBS claimed it was, RBS didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. 
They said, RBS made a commercial decision to close all personal trust accounts. And in 
accordance with the Accounts terms and conditions, they provided six months notice to 
such account holders giving them the opportunity to make arrangements with another 
provider, if necessary, to open a new account. 
Mr G was sent notice of the banks intention in January 2022 and further reminders were 
sent in March, April and June 2022. There was no exception or workaround to this process.
Mr G didnt agree with the banks position and referred Ms complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said:
Although the charities commission confirms that M has been a registered charity 
since 1937, due to the time thats elapsed, theres no longer any information about 
how the Account was opened or what was requested in 1991 when it was opened.
Nonetheless, RBS accepted that some charities had been caught in their review. 
However, no assistance was offered to the trustees either prior to the closure of the 
Account or afterwards. The trustees explained to the bank that it was possible M 
would be merging with another charity and therefore, they couldnt yet open a new 
account so they needed the Account held open. In the circumstances, it doesnt 
seem fair that M should have been left with no account.
 
M was inconvenienced by having to apply for a new account. To acknowledge the 
inconvenience RBS should pay M £100.
RBS accepted the investigators opinion. But M didnt and have asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter. On Ms behalf Mr G said  in summary: 
the compensation falls short of the amount the bank should properly have to pay 
bearing in mind the time he had spent on the matter. And besides, requiring RBS to 
pay £100 is tiny and will not encourage them to make sure such events don't happen 
again. 
RBS classified the Account incorrectly when they originally opened it because it was 
clear from the outset the funds belonged to a charity.
£500 would be fair compensation for the banks error in closing the Account. In 
particular, because over many months he kept reminding the bank the Account was a 
charity account and not a personal trust account as RBS were insisting. The bank 
simply closed the Account and put a cheque in the post without investigating and 
replying meaningfully to Mr Gs correspondence beforehand.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As noted above, the Account was opened many years ago in 1991. And the passage of time 
means the bank no longer has the opening documentation. But the Account was opened as 
a personal trust account. However, Im satisfied M has been a charity all along. That does suggest in all likelihood that 
when the Account was being opened in 1991 for M, it was intended to be one appropriate for 
a charity rather than as a personal trust account.  But given the time that has elapsed, I 
cannot be sure who was at fault for that being the case. 
In any event the Account was opened as a personal trust account. And the bank took a 
commercial decision it did not wish to continue to offer such accounts and would close them. 
That is a decision RBS were entitled to take. And moreover, they gave M notice of their 
intention to do so in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Account. Given that 
RBS had no wish to continue to operate personal trust accounts, I dont, think I can safely 
say that they were wrong to close the Account. 
But long before RBS took that action, the trustees were making it known they didnt want to 
be left without an account. In particular, because they were looking to merge with another 
charity and would face some difficulty if M was left without an account. 
In the circumstances of this case, I think RBS could have engaged with the trustees more 
than they actually did. For example, it would appear RBS had a community account within 
their portfolio to which they could have drawn the trustees attention. Instead, without 
meaningful engagement and an indication of poor service, the bank persisted in sending 
closure notices and later a cheque for the closing balance after theyd closed the Account. 
Like the investigator Im satisfied M was caused some inconvenience for which it should be 
compensated. 
I am aware Mr G has said the amount of compensation should be in the order of £500 to 
have a deterrent effect and to reflect the time and effort that were expended to open a new 
account for M.
Our aim, however, is not to punish financial businesses. Rather it is to award fair 
compensation which reflects the impact of the financial businesss error on the complainant. 
In this case, I bear in mind the trustees were always going to have to open a new account for 
M in any event. But the Account was closed before they had a new one already in place. But 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence this did cause significant inconvenience to M 
Putting things right
Im satisfied the £100 that has been recommended is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I 
recommend The Royal Bank of Scotland pays M £100  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman