DRN-3251099
The complaint
Mr A complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing (IWeb) 
misled him about the price of his shares, resulting in him making a loss when the shares 
were sold.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr A placed a trade online to sell international shares from his self-
managed, execution only account. On 29 December Mr A placed orders to sell 2,653 units 
across four funds he held in international stock. He said the total value he received and what 
he was quoted prior to the sale, were as follows:
 Shares in fund 1: sold for £598 - pre-sale quote was £1,100.
 Shares in fund 2: sold for £620 - pre-sale quote was £700.
 Shares in fund 3: sold for £450 - pre-sale quote was £600.
 Shares in fund 4: sold for £831 - pre-sale quote was £1,100.
Mr A says he relied on the prices he was quoted prior to the sale of the shares but once the 
order was executed, he noticed they had sold for significantly less. Mr A says this resulted in 
a loss of around £1,100. Mr A complained to IWeb.
IWeb rejected Mr As complaint. It said because Mr A had executed international stock, the 
prices quoted on its website were not live prices and were indicative only. It said it had 
acted in line with its terms and conditions. IWeb explained with international stocks it does 
not have live prices, instead these trades are placed directly on the market via its foreign 
counter-party and the next available price is received. IWeb noted that Mr As trades were 
executed within six seconds from his instructions and he received the price within the price 
range available at the time, as set out in the order execution policy. So, it didnt think it had 
done anything incorrectly in Mr As case.
Unhappy with the response, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Amongst other 
things, he said IWeb quoted incorrect prices in respect of international stock which was 
misleading. Mr A thinks IWeb deliberately gave high quotes for international stock to lure 
sellers to sell shares.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In summary, he said IWeb 
hadnt done anything wrong as it had acted in line with the terms of Mr As account, 
Mr A disagreed. Whilst he accepted prices were indicative, he thinks the actual price should 
have at least been close to the quoted price, but it was, in fact, far less.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be upholding Mr As complaint. 
I note that Mr A has made comments about the way IWeb operates generally and how this 
may disadvantage its customers. Whilst I cant ask IWeb to change its processes, which is a 
legitimate business decision for it to make, I can see whether it had applied these processes 
fairly. I need to also consider whether it provided clear, fair and not misleading information to 
Mr A.
The starting point for this complaint is the IWeb terms and conditions. At section 14.3 the 
terms say:
 we cannot promise that the market information is accurate, complete, 
timely or in the right order. You must satisfy yourself that market information 
is reliable before you make any decisions or take any actions based upon it. 
This section of the terms and conditions made it reasonably clear to Mr A that he needed to 
check that the information he was relying on before selling his shares was accurate, 
complete and timely. Further, IWeb was providing Mr A with an execution only service. This 
was made clear at section 14.4 of the terms which say:
 We are not responsible for any decision or action that you take or any loss 
that you or anybody else may suffer as a result of a decision or action taken 
on the basis of market information provided by us. 
IWeb has also provided a notice that Mr A would have seen on his screen via his online 
account before submitting his order. Amongst other things this said (bold is IWebs 
emphasis):
The latest price is fifteen minute delayed mid price. All non-UK currencies 
have been converted to sterling by an indicative foreign exchange rate.
Fund pricing is based on the last available valuation point provided by the 
fund managed. Any fund trades will be executed at the next available 
price in accordance with our Order Execution policy and Assured Valuations 
point. 
This section went on to say: the information on this page is indicative so you should 
independently check any data before you make an investment decision.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions alongside the order execution policy I am satisfied 
IWeb make it clear that Mr As shares wouldve been priced on each working day at an 
assured valuation point. This is when assets are valued and the price per unit is set. Looking 
at the evidence I have, I can see that several of Mr As funds achieved a price above the 
assured valuation point and I think its more likely than not this applied to all four funds in 
which Mr A sold his shares. 
By Mr As own admission, he was aware and understood that the prices he was quoted prior 
to his instructions to sell, were indicative only. The screen that he would have seen prior to 
his decision to sell his shares, told him the prices were indicative and he would receive the next available price. I think the information IWeb provided Mr A before he sold his shares 
was clear, fair and not misleading such that he was able to make an informed decision.
I appreciate Mr A thinks there should not have been as big a gap between what was quoted 
and what he ultimately received. But the value of his shares depended on market conditions 
which IWeb had no control over. I also dont think theres any persuasive evidence to 
support what Mr A says about IWeb deliberately misleading him about the value he would 
receive for his shares. These were international shares, there were no live prices and Mr A 
was told this before he decided to sell his shares in the pop-up notice he received before 
issuing his instructions. So, I cant fairly say IWeb misled Mr A about the value he would 
ultimately receive for his shares.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman