DRN-3718104
The complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly gave him a credit card account that he 
couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr D took out a credit card whilst he was a student and working part time. Mr D feels he 
was pressured into taking out the credit. He feels the lending was irresponsible. 
In 2022, Mr D complained to NewDay Ltd to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay Ltd ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before giving him credit. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr D didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
NewDay Ltd will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ds complaint is that NewDay Ltd made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr D has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. And NewDay Ltd has explained that it 
purchased a portfolio of accounts in 2014, including Mr Ds account. And as they hadnt 
made the original lending decision or the subsequent credit increase decision, they could 
throw little light on the nature of the affordability checks that took place when the card was 
taken out, or the credit increase was made. 
So, its possible that the credit provider, now a NewDay Ltd account, failed to make 
adequate checks before providing Mr D with credit. But even if thats true, that wouldnt 
mean that Mr Ds complaint would uphold automatically. We would then assess Mr Ds 
financial circumstances to see if the lending was affordable.
Mr D has explained that the passing years mean he is unable to provide his bank 
statements for the period in question. He has provided some National Insurance 
information but that is insufficient for me to establish the full income Mr D had at that time. 
And I have insufficient evidence of Mr Ds committed expenditure at the time. These are 
the things I would consider when thinking about the affordability of the credit given to Mr 
D. So, in the absence of such evidence, I havent seen sufficient evidence to think that the 
credit was unaffordable. 
Mr D felt he was coerced into taking the card. Pressure is a subjective matter, and I have 
noted that, partly due to the face to face nature of the transaction, Mr D has no evidence 
that supports his complaint point. But in the absence of any supporting evidence, I have 
seen insufficient evidence to uphold Mr Ds complaint, on this point alone. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr D to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led NewDay Ltd to think that the credit it 
provided Mr D was unreasonable. 
I know that Mr D will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr D to know that I have 
noted all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman