DRN-3770222
The complaint
Mr B complains about issues opening an account with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). He 
would like more compensation than the £75 Barclays has offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that Mr B had problems opening an account with Barclays. This 
was due to a systems error  thats unfortunate but these problems can occur.  The 
main issue is the  appropriate level of compensation as Mr B doesnt feel the £75 
Barclays offered is fair.
I think its reasonable that Barclays pay some compensation to Mr B. As  I 
understand it he applied to open an account in July 2021 but five months later the 
account still hadnt been opened. Its unfortunate that, although the systems problem 
was resolved, it didnt resolve Mr Bs issue and Barclays advised him he would need 
to apply for the account again. I dont doubt this caused Mr B some considerable 
frustration and inconvenience.
Mr B has made a lot of comments in relation to what factors we should consider 
about compensation and I have considered these carefully.. When we look at 
compensation payments we take a variety of factors into account . We dont 
calculate compensation payments in the way Mr B has requested - he has asked for 
£100 for each month until Barclays confirmed the account hasnt been opened giving 
a total of £500. Neither do we look at what a business can afford . We look at the 
impact of the , in this case , Barclays actions on Mr B.
Mr B told us during the application process access to his other accounts was blocked  
but I havent seen any evidence to confirm that.  Barclays made the point that Mr B 
didnt complain until 5 months after he opened the account so it believes the impact 
on him was small. Given Mr Bs personal circumstances I appreciate going into a 
branch might have been difficult. But I think he could have raised the problem sooner 
by phone  if the outstanding application left him with no access to funds at all. 
Additionally, Mr B hasnt given us any evidence of any loss that he has incurred that I 
could consider. So, I feel the compensation is for the general level of distress and 
inconvenience caused by a problem occurring that took some time and effort on Mr 
Bs part to deal with . I do think given all I have seen that the £75 Barclays offered is 
fair.
My final decision
The business has already made an offer of £75 compensation to settle this complaint. I think 
this offer is fair in the circumstances.
In full and final settlement Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr B £75 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman