DRN-4374568
The complaint
Mr G has complained about his car breakdown insurance provider, Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV). He feels it gave him poor service starting with a 
breakdown three years ago, which damaged his car. With further poor service occurring 
again in December 2022.
What happened
Mr Gs car broke down in 2019. LV attended but Mr G was not happy with what happened. 
LV considered his complaint and issued a final response, not upholding his concerns. This 
letter was followed by several others through to early 2021, but LVs position didnt change.
On an evening in December 2022 Mr Gs car wouldnt start. LV tried to find an operative to 
attend, but none were able to do so that evening. LV offered to cover the cost of a taxi for 
Mr G, so he could get to his destination. He declined. His car was subsequently attended by 
an LV operative, it was started and taken to a garage. Mr G believed the problem with the 
car stemmed back to the recovery in 2019. 
LV said it had dealt with Mr Gs concerns about what happened in 2019 before. It wasnt 
prepared to revisit that.
Regarding the 2022 recovery LV felt it had done all it could to assist Mr G. It said it was 
actioning Mr Gs request for copies of phone calls.
Mr G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator explained to Mr G that she would be unable to consider what had happened 
in 2019. That was because Mr G had not complained to this service within six months of 
LVs letters. 
Regarding the 2022 incident, our Investigator felt LV had done all it could to try and assist 
Mr G. But she felt some poor service had occurred whilst one of LVs managers was talking 
with Mr G. She felt, in the circumstances here, LV should pay Mr G £100 compensation.
LV said it didnt think the call was unreasonably handled. It wasnt minded to agree with our 
Investigators findings.
Mr G was unhappy. He said hed asked for our help years ago. He felt it was time for a 
public enquiry and for social media intervention. He said LV still hadnt sent him copies of 
call recordings or letters in large print. Mr G said hed asked for senior staff to become 
involved and look into everything to see how bad things are. He said there was so much 
stress and they hadnt done what hed been paying for  all they ever did was jump start the 
car. Mr G said that when LV took the car to a local garage (in 2022), he had to pay for the 
repair, when he felt it had caused the damage (in 2019). He was disappointed hed had no 
help, given he is vulnerable.
Mr Gs complaint was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In these findings my focus is on what happened in 2022. Ive explained in a separate 
decision why I cant comment on the merits of Mr Gs concerns about what happened 
earlier, in 2019.
I can see that in December 2019 Mr G, in the evening, found his car wouldnt start, and he 
called LV. I can see that LV noted Mr G did not approve of its first choice of company for 
attending. So it tried to find alternative suppliers. And when that wasnt possible, offered to 
pay for a taxi to enable Mr G to get to where he was going. I think LV acted fairly and 
reasonably in this respect. As well as within the scope of what the policy allows cover for. 
I can also see that when LV was able to get someone to attend Mr Gs car, the car was 
started. It was then taken to a garage. I think that was also fair and reasonable of LV as 
well as being in line with that the policy offers.
I appreciate that Mr G felt it was unfair for him to have to pay for repair of the car. But LVs 
policy does not offer or promise to fully repair a car, only to resolve the immediate 
breakdown and/or, where necessary, get the car to a garage. I know Mr G thinks the 
problem is related to what happened in 2019  but Ive explained in a separate decision 
why I cant look at what happened then.
Whilst LV was seeking to resolve the situation in 2022, it had several calls with Mr G. 
Generally I think those calls were handled appropriately. But bearing in mind the long 
history of Mr Gs concerns, how worried he was in December 2022, along with his 
vulnerabilities, I think there was one call which could have been handled better. This was 
a call where Mr G was speaking to a manager. I appreciate that the conversation became 
difficult. But I also note that the manager raised their voice unreasonably, spoke over 
Mr G and that their tone was somewhat dismissive, in my view. I think in all of the 
circumstances here that call could have been handled better. I also accept that this call in 
particular was upsetting for Mr G, which could have been avoided. Whilst it was only one 
call, in all of the circumstances here, I do think £100 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due.
I understand that Mr G will likely feel that £100 is insufficient, given all he believes LV has 
put him through. But, for the part of his complaint Ive been able to consider, and the 
failures in that respect Ive found by LV, I am satisfied that £100 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Mr G £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman