DRN-2701999
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to carry out a money transfer as instructed, 
and gave him poor customer service during his phone calls to resolve the matter.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr P wanted to transfer a five-figure sum of money from his HSBC account to 
an overseas bank as an investment. The overseas bank returned the payment to his HSBC 
account about three weeks later, giving the reason that the beneficiary details were invalid. 
In August, Mr P tried again, and this second transfer was successful.
HSBC sent Mr P letters confirming the details of each transfer, and each letter had different 
payment details on them. Mr P insists that he provided the exact same payment details to 
HSBC on both occasions, and so he says it must have been HSBCs fault that the first 
transfer had failed. He asked to be refunded the interest he had lost out on between the 
dates of the transfers, which was a four-figure sum.
HSBC did not agree that Mr P had provided the correct payment details, but it offered him 
£200 as compensation to acknowledge that it could have done more to help him during 
some phone calls Mr P had made to try to sort matters out. Mr P rejected that offer as 
inadequate. He said that he had spent hours on the phone and his time had been wasted; he 
had also sent HSBC numerous emails. He brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She listened to a recording of the phone call 
in July in which Mr P had provided the payment details for the original transfer, and she 
concluded that Mr P had not provided the account number which was used for the 
successful transfer in August. She said that HSBC had followed Mr Ps instructions in July, 
so she was satisfied that HSBC was not responsible for the money being returned.
The investigator said she had also listened to several calls Mr P had made in August, in 
which he had asked HSBC to try again using the same details he had given in July, and that 
HSBC had refused because it expected the same result. She thought it had been reasonable 
of HSBC to ask Mr P to ask his broker to check the payees details, and once Mr P had done 
that, and obtained a different account number to use, the second transfer was carried out 
successfully using that new number. She thought that £200 was fair compensation for the 
customer service issues.
Mr P did not accept that opinion, and he asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why. In doing so, I will avoid giving details which 
could be used to identify Mr P when this decision is published.
I have listened carefully to the relevant call (the second call made on 6 July). Mr P provided 
an eight-digit account number (starting with a 9) for the money to be transferred to: this was 
his own account with a third party. HSBC followed his instructions, and read back to him all 
of the details before finalising the transfer. Mr P confirmed these details were all correct. The 
same details appear on the payment confirmation letter, so I am satisfied that the call 
handler entered them in the manner which was agreed. Mr P has suggested that perhaps 
she entered the data in the wrong fields, but from listening to the call and reading the 
confirmation letter, I am sure that is not the case.
But there is a more compelling reason why I think the first transfer failed for a reason which 
is not HSBCs fault. That reason is that the successful transfer was accomplished using a 
twelve-digit account number (starting with a 7) which was provided to Mr B by a third party, 
which he then passed on to HSBC. That twelve-digit number appears in the August 
confirmation letter. Mr P never provided that number during the July phone call, so HSBC 
was unaware of it. (Mr Ps eight-digit account number was still needed too, but in August it 
was provided in the details of payment field, next to his name. In July, the details of 
payment field contained the text Global Treasury Management, at Mr Ps request, but this 
was not needed.)
To be clear, I am not saying that this was Mr Ps fault. The payment instructions he had been 
given by the third party were not entirely clear, so I can understand why Mr P provided the 
information he gave HSBC in July. But that information was incomplete, and it is not 
accurate to say that there was no difference between the information Mr P provided in July 
and the information he gave HSBC in August. The twelve-digit number was new information, 
and it was indispensable. (That number can be found at the bottom right-hand corner of the 
first page of the written payment instructions which have been provided to him by the third 
party, but I do not think Mr P can be blamed for overlooking this, assuming he had this 
document at the time. It was far from clear that this was the number he needed to give 
HSBC.)
The essential point here is that HSBC could never have used that number in July, because 
they didnt have it. I also think it was reasonable of HSBC to decline to attempt the transfer a 
second time until that number had been provided to them, because otherwise the second 
transfer would have failed too. For these reasons, there is no basis on which I could tell 
HSBC to reimburse Mr P with the interest he missed out on between the first and second 
transfers.
I think that £200 is fair compensation for the other phone calls. At least one of the calls  
which HSBC had asked Mr P to make  was unnecessary, because it came after he had 
emailed HSBC the information it needed. But some calls could have been avoided if Mr P 
had asked the third party for its help earlier (and I note that in the first call on 6 July HSBC 
had asked him to do that). So I think that HSBCs offer is around what I would have told it to 
pay Mr P if no offer had been made.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman