DRN-4514560
The complaint
Mr U complains that Sky UK Limited irresponsibly gave him three fixed sum loan 
agreements he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In December 2022, Mr U applied for three separate fixed sum loan agreements with Sky 
over the course of three days. Each agreement was to be used to finance the purchase of a 
mobile phone (the same make and model each time). Each application was accepted by 
Sky. The agreements were all interest free, but they all required Mr U to repay the original 
cash price of £1,200 (a total of £3,600) over 36 months.
Mr U later complained to Sky to say that it shouldnt have given him the agreements 
because they were unaffordable from the outset. Sky didnt think it had acted unfairly in 
lending to him. It said it had completed affordability checks which didnt reveal any concerns.
I sent Mr U and Sky my provisional decision on 29 November 2023. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Before lending to Mr U, Sky needed to complete proportionate affordability checks to 
ensure the lending wasnt going to cause him financial difficulty. There isnt a set list 
of checks that had to be completed as each lending decision is unique. In deciding 
what checks would be proportionate each time, Sky needed to take into 
consideration several factors such as (but not limited to): the amount borrowed, the 
charge for credit, the size of the regular repayments, the term and the consumers 
circumstances.
Sky have provided very little evidence of the checks it completed with each 
application. It has provided the name of the credit reference agency it used to 
complete a credit check on Mr U and has told us that there were no defaults, CCJs or 
other adverse markers present on those checks. It says that based on this 
information it deemed the loans to be affordable.
While I accept that these credit agreements were interest free and the repayments 
were either £33 per month or £31.50 per month, Sky was still looking to lend £1,200 
each time. From what Sky has provided it appears it made no attempt to establish 
what Mr Us income was with any of the applications. I dont know how it hoped to 
adequately assess Mr Us ability to repay the agreements with zero understanding of 
how much income he had.
Sky will be aware that the relevant rules in place by the regulator generally expected 
it to make at least some attempt to establish what Mr U earned. It has not 
demonstrated, as required by the rules, that it was obvious Mr U could afford the 
loans without it needing to establish his income. Im therefore not persuaded it 
completed reasonable or proportionate affordability checks before lending on any of 
the loans.
Mr U has told us he earned around £2,300 per month and Ive seen no reason to 
disbelieve him. So, I think its likely this is what he would have told Sky if it had 
asked. Sky hasnt provided us with a copy of the credit checks it completed at each 
application but has told us which credit reference agency it used. Mr U has provided 
us with a copy of his credit report from that same agency. Im therefore persuaded 
that the information contained in the report Mr U has provided is likely to contain the 
same (or very similar) information as what Sky saw when it completed its checks.
Sky said its checks revealed no CCJs, defaults or missed payments. This appears to 
be accurate. However, that isnt all that Mr Us credit history showed. I think it ought 
to have been very clear that he was struggling financially and that any further credit 
would be unaffordable and unsustainable for him.
I say this because Ive seen that Mr U had a mortgage, which he was paying around 
£850 per month. He also had a further secured loan with monthly repayments of 
nearly £500 and an unsecured loan with monthly repayments of around £140. In 
addition to these large commitments, Mr U also had eight credit cards and three 
further loans.
The credit cards had combined limits of around £3,000 and Mr U had opened six of 
those credit card accounts in the previous 11 months  and the majority of those in 
the last four months. It appears he was utilising the majority of those limits at the time 
of the first application to Sky. The three additional loans had all been taken out in the 
previous three months and were from high-cost-short-term lenders. Mr Us credit file 
also demonstrated that he had a prolonged history of relying on payday loans and 
other high-cost-short-term borrowing.
While his credit file might not have indicated missed payments, it was very clear Mr U 
was relying on borrowing to meet his existing commitments and in the previous three 
to six months his need for further credit had significantly increased.
The amount of debt, the speed at which he was increasing his indebtedness and the 
type of borrowing he was undertaking, all should have prompted Sky to realise that 
further credit would be unaffordable and unsustainable for him. Further, just taking 
into account the regular monthly repayments towards these debts would have left 
Mr U with very little each month to meet his essential living costs such as food and 
priority bills. I therefore dont think Sky acted fairly when it approved all three 
applications.
It isnt possible to completely unwind the lending decisions and place Mr U back in 
the position he would have been in but for Skys actions. However, as Mr U has 
received the goods that the finance was taken out to purchase, I think its fair he pays 
back the capital amount he borrowed. I note the credit agreements have all been 
defaulted and that Mr U is currently repaying the debt under a payment arrangement.
The adverse information recorded on his credit file in relation to these agreements 
has only happened because Sky lent to him when it shouldnt have. So, I consider it 
fair and reasonable that any adverse markers are removed from his credit file. 
However, they should only be removed once Mr U has paid back the capital he 
borrowed. This is so that while there is a balance outstanding other lenders can 
correctly see on his credit file that he still owes money to Sky and that he was not in 
a position to be able to afford to pay it back. Once hes paid the capital back it would 
be unfair to continue reporting that inability to repay as he should never have been in 
that position.Mr U accepted my provisional decision and had no further information or evidence to 
provide, other than to say the debt was currently with a debt collection agency. Sky didnt 
respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or evidence, Ive seen no reason to 
come to a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. I therefore 
dont think Sky acted fairly and reasonably when it granted all three loans to Mr U. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Sky UK Limited to:
Remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Us credit file in relation to all 
three credit agreements, but only when he has repaid the capital that he borrowed.
If Sky has sold the outstanding debt to a third party, it either needs to buy the debt back in 
order to carry out these directions or ensure that the third party does so promptly on its 
behalf.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman