DRN-3261555
The complaint
Miss O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC irresponsibly increased her overdraft limit to an 
unaffordable level
What happened
Miss O says Lloyds allowed her to increase her overdraft facility to £2,000 in 2015. She says 
she was in financial difficulties at the time and was using short term lending at the time. Miss 
O says appropriate checks were not carried out and would like the interest and charges she 
has paid refunded.
Lloyds says Miss O had a student graduate account. It says those type of accounts allow an 
interest free overdraft facility of £2,000 which reduces on graduation. Lloyds says it did carry 
out checks and says Miss O told it she had an income and lived at home with limited 
outgoings.
Miss O brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought this was a graduate account with an interest free facility. The investigator thought 
the checks for that type of account would have been limited but thought Lloyds had carried 
out appropriate checks.
Miss O doesnt accept that view and maintains she was also taking out short term lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit applications. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of any lending or credit. This was an application for an increase in an overdraft 
facility of about £500 and so I would not have expected Lloyds checks to have been as 
detailed here as for example a loan or mortgage application.
Im satisfied that Miss O held a graduate account with an interest free overdraft facility. Im 
also satisfied that at the end of 2015 Miss O applied for an increase to her facility by about 
£500 to £2,000. I can see that as part of the Lloyds graduate account an overdraft facility 
was available interest free up to £2,000. I can also see that Lloyds did carry out some 
checks on the application but am satisfied that Miss O was entitled to the facility as part of 
her account. So Im satisfied that checks were carried out but think this was a facility Miss O 
was entitled to as part of her account and that there was an expectation that she would 
repay the facility over time when she was no longer a student.
I appreciate Miss O says she was also using short term lending and I can see some 
payments into and out of her account that confirms that. But I can also see that Miss O didnt 
utilise all of her overdraft facility and also told Lloyds that she had an income with limited 
outgoings as she was living at home. I dont think the short-term lending would have meant 
Lloyds was irresponsible in increasing the facility and in any event think the increase was a 
relatively modest £500.
Overall, Im satisfied appropriate checks were carried out by Lloyds, but this was an account 
designed to help a student. And that Miss O was entitled as part of the account to have an 
overdraft facility up to £2,000 which she was given. Im satisfied that it seems Miss Os 
financial difficulties took place some years after the increase in any event.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman