DRN-3020939
The complaint
Mr Ps representative has complained, on his behalf, that he was unsuitably advised by EGB 
Financial Ltd to transfer his existing personal pension policy (PPP) with Aviva into a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The representative has said that Mr P has lost out 
financially as a result and that he should be redressed accordingly.
What happened
Mr P had held his PPP since 1992, and at the time of advice it was no longer receiving 
contributions. As of October 2013, the date of the advice to transfer, it had a transfer value of 
around £16,000, with a planned retirement date of June 2026  when Mr P would be 60.
When Mr P met with EGB, it was recorded that he expressed concern at the 
underperformance of his plan, and that he wished to reduce the associated charges. Mr P 
was at the time employed, earning around £16,000 pa, he had some savings and was a 
member of his then employers pension scheme (separate to this PPP).
Having assessed Mr Ps circumstances, objectives and options, EGB recommended that he 
transfer to a SIPP with Intelligent Money, which would be invested on the Parmenion 
Platform.
The rationale for this was that it had the potential to improve the performance of Mr Ps 
pension funds and reduce the overall charges incurred. It also said that the recommended 
funds would reduce Mr Ps risk exposure. Mr P accepted the advice and his pension funds 
were transferred in early April 2013.
In January 2020, Mr Ps representative complained to EGB, saying that guaranteed benefits 
in the previous PPP had been lost and that the investment risk to which Mr P had been 
exposed was too high.
EGB declined to uphold the complaint, however, saying in summary that Mr P was provided 
with all the necessary documentation to make an informed decision, that the recommended 
plan was cost effective compared to the existing PPP, it lowered  and matched  Mr Ps risk 
rating, and that it had the potential to outperform the existing PPP. In particular regard to the 
last point, it noted that, as at October 2020, the SIPP had a value of £24,665, which 
represented a return of over 50% since the transfer in 2013.
Dissatisfied with the response, however, the representative referred the matter to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered it. She didnt think that the complaint 
should be upheld, saying the following in summary:
She noted that the PPP held no defined benefits, and that the recommended funds to 
receive the transfer werent unregulated or high risk in nature.
The medium risk growth projection for the SIPP took into account the 5% bonus 
within the PPPs with profits fund which Mr P may receive when he took benefits from 
the policy, but this wasnt guaranteed, which meant that the £34,280 projected fund 
value for the PPP could in fact be lower.
This compared to a projection of £35,000 within the SIPP, but, the investigator noted, 
the relative difference would be higher still if the terminal bonus assumed for the 
Aviva PPP didnt materialize, or was lower than 5%.
With regard to the charges, the initial outlay to Mr P would have been the 5% adviser 
fee and 1.92% fund fees, which would have reduced the transfer value. But the 
projections took account of these charges, and demonstrated that these could be 
recovered, especially given that Mr P still had 16 years until his selected retirement 
date.
The ongoing annual charge for the SIPP was half that of the PPP  0.5% pa rather 
than 1%. Over time, this would have compensated for the initial charges.
In terms of the suitability of the recommended funds, the investigator said that Mr P 
was correctly categorized as a low-medium risk investor, given his low tolerance for 
loss and lack of investment experience. She said that the replacement investment 
funds were suited to this, and none were high risk or unregulated.
In respect of other loss of benefits, the investigator said that, although the SIPP 
would only provide 50% of the fund value as a death benefit to Mr Ps wife, as 
opposed to 100% of the fund value with the PPP, she didnt think that this would 
have prevented Mr P from proceeding with the transfer.
In support of this conclusion, she said that Mr Ps objectives were to increase his 
fund and the provision of death benefits wasnt a key consideration at the time of the 
advice. Mr P wasnt in ill health at the time of the advice, the investigator noted.
Mr Ps representative disagreed, however, saying that a transfer must be demonstrated to 
be in a consumers best interests, and that these werent restricted to financial best interests. 
The recommendation didnt meet Mr Ps needs and objectives as a whole, it said.
The representative added that the death benefits were important to Mr P and that valuable 
guarantees were lost without explanation or justification.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, theres little that I think I can meaningfully add to the conclusions 
already drawn by the investigator.
I agree with Mr Ps representative that there needs to be sound justification to transfer 
pension benefits from one pension plan to another, especially when initial costs for the 
transfer will be incurred.
But from the available evidence, it seems that the various charges were factored into the 
projections and that there was scope for enhancement in overall performance largely due to 
the funds which would be used and the reduction in the annual charges being levied. 
Regarding that first factor in particular, with profits funds (which accounted for around half of 
Mr Ps investment in the PPP) had, by the time of the advice, for some years generally 
underperformed more equity based investments due in large part to the reduction of that 
growth-oriented type of equity investment within the with profits funds asset allocation.
And so its perhaps unsurprising that, even on the basis of more modest growth assumptions 
than had historically been the case, a replacement for a with profits fund would produce a 
higher growth projection.
Mr Ps representative may consider that hes been financially disadvantaged by the 
recommendation to transfer, but I think its quite likely, albeit not certain, that the stated level 
of growth the SIPP has achieved since 2013 would have outperformed that which he would 
have received from the PPP.Id emphasize that this isnt the determining factor here - I simply offer it as an observation - 
as noted by the investigator, the relevant consideration is whether the recommendation was 
suitable. But on the basis of costs, this seem to have favoured the SIPP, especially, again as 
noted by the investigator, the number of years left to retirement and the capacity of the 
halved annual charge to more than compensate for the initial costs incurred  including the 
adviser fee and the market value adjustment. This was evidenced by the lower critical 
yields than the actual presumed growth figures  i.e. if growth on the existing plan was 
projected at 5% pa, the replacement plan would only need to grow by 4.86% pa to match the 
benefits.
As to the recommended funds, I think the investigator was right to conclude that, given Mr 
Ps circumstances and lack of investment experience, along with his likely capacity for 
investment loss, he was correctly attributed a low-medium risk attitude. And I dont think the 
choice of the passive balanced fund, given the number of years left to Mr Ps selected 
retirement age, would have been inappropriate for that.
As to the matter of the death benefits within the replacement SIPP, I think this is a 
misunderstanding, and the suitability report also didnt record that Mr Ps beneficiaries would 
only be entitled to 50% of the fund value in the event of his death. As with other types of 
SIPP and PPP, they would be entitled to the unit value of his pension fund.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman