DRN-3391137
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the length of time it took Equiniti Financial Services Limited to sell his 
shares. He believes the firm misinformed him while the sale was being processed, and that 
the delay meant he received a less favourable price. 
What happened
In August 2021, Equiniti contacted Mr M with information about shares he held. On 10 
August 2021, he signed a form to sell these shares, which Equiniti received on 12 August 
2021. Mr M says he called Equiniti while the sale was being processed but that it wasnt 
finalised until 17 August 2021.
Mr M raised a complaint about the length of time it took for the shares to be sold. He also 
queried why he was recorded as only having 6,009 shares, when hed submitted share 
certificates which totalled 6,122 shares. Equiniti said the reason the sale wasnt processed 
sooner was due to market conditions at the time and due to the size of the trade requests 
received for this particular stock.
Equiniti also said the sale was carried out in line with the terms and conditions, but Mr M was 
unhappy that these werent sent along with the information hed received about selling the 
shares. He feels he wouldnt have sold the shares had he received the terms.
Equiniti said that the terms were available to view on their website, and that the forms 
explained a paper copy would be provided upon request. They also said that when 
completing the form to sell his shares, Mr M signed to confirm hed read and understood the 
terms that would apply to the sale. Finally, they highlighted that only share certificates issued 
after October 2018 were valid, and that 6,009 was the correct amount of shares.
As he was unhappy with Equinitis response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think the case should be upheld. They thought the terms were clear about 
how long it could take for the shares to be sold, and that Mr M had opportunities to consult 
these terms before going ahead. They also felt 6,009 was the correct number of shares that 
Mr M held.
Mr M disagreed with the outcome, explaining that he was told on multiple phone calls the 
shares had already been sold, but this turned out to be untrue. He feels he was misinformed 
throughout the process and has suggested the shares were only sold when he chased 
Equiniti for answers. He reiterated that he was worse off financially as a result of Equiniti 
delaying the sale of the shares.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ive seen the share dealing form Mr M received. It says only share certificates dated August 
2017 or later would be valid. Equiniti has confirmed this was an error, and that only 
certificates dated from October 2018 were valid, as there had been a share consolidation 
prior to that. While the date is an error, the form does still state the correct amount of shares 
Mr M held, which was 6009. This matches the evidence Equiniti provided us. So Im satisfied 
Mr M received the proceeds from the amount of shares he was entitled to, and was made 
aware of the correct number upfront. While the date is an error, I cant see this error caused 
Mr M to lose out.  
After sending in the form, Mr M says he called Equiniti on 13 August and was told by the call 
handler that the shares had been sold. He called again on 17 August, and says he was 
again advised the shares had already been sold. However, the sale was only finalised after 
this call, and hes concerned Equiniti only carried out the sale as a result of him calling in.
Ive listened to the call from 17 August. Im not persuaded Equiniti deliberately misled Mr M 
but I can see why he may have thought, following that conversation, that the shares had 
already been sold. Equiniti havent been able to provide a copy of the call of 13 August. 
Regardless, Im satisfied that even if Mr M was told in either call that the shares had already 
been sold, it wouldnt have affected the amount he was entitled to receive. I say this because 
I dont believe the calls were what prompted the sale. Its the share dealing form which I 
would expect to initiate the sale  and thats what appears to have happened here, just not 
as quickly as Mr M expected. 
Mr Ms sale order was processed by Equiniti on Friday 13 August 2021, the day after they 
received the form. His order was batched up as part of a bulk order and sent to the broker 
that day. However, Equiniti have told us there was a previous bulk order that needed to 
complete first, so the one Mr Ms shares were part of was not started until the afternoon of 
the next working day, which was Monday 16 August. It completed the next day. Ive seen 
nothing to doubt this explanation. 
Equiniti has described that there was high demand for the stock in question. The terms and 
conditions, which Mr M agreed to, make it clear that Equiniti may combine a sale order with 
other customers orders, and that sales could take place over several transactions and on 
separate days. Ive considered this, and whether Equiniti acted fairly when choosing to do 
this here. Given the information Ive been provided, I dont think their choice to do so was 
unreasonable. Firms do have the option to bulk up sale orders where they have a large 
number of them. Here, Im satisfied this was a reasonable action for them to take, given the 
large number of requests theyd received and the high demand for the stock. 
So taking this all into account, I dont think the length of time it took to sell the shares was 
unreasonable. Because of this, even if Mr M was told when he called in that the shares had 
already been sold, Im satisfied this misinformation would have had no impact on how 
quickly his shares were actually sold, given theyd already been batched up and sent to the 
broker on 13 August. While Equiniti could have provided better information to Mr M during 
his phone calls with them, his complaint here is the speed with which they processed his 
sale order. And Im satisfied they did this fairly.  
I appreciate Mr M is unhappy that the terms and conditions werent provided with the sale 
form. However, the form made it clear how he could access these terms, both instantly 
online as well as in paper form. Mr M was asked to return the share dealing form by 7 
October 2021. So he had time to request  and receive  the terms by post if he wished to 
do so, prior to making a decision on whether to sell the shares.With the above in mind, I cant say Equinitis actions were unreasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman