DRN-2545669
The complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs H took out the policy at the same time as applying for a credit card in June 1996
The policy cost 69p per £100 of Mrs Hs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 10% of that 
balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mrs H that the policy was optional, and it had to get her 
consent before applying PPI to her account. Mrs H says she was led to believe the policy 
was a requirement of the card. Barclaycard says Mrs H chose to take PPI and its provided a 
copy of her application form for me to review.
On the application form, there is a section about PPI and two separate boxes to tick either 
yes or no for the policy. The yes box has been ticked and the no box has been left blank. 
Mrs H has signed the application form, confirming that she agrees with the selections on it. 
So, I think Mrs H was aware she had a choice and that she chose to take PPI at the time.
Barclaycard has treated this as an advised sale, which puts more responsibility on 
Barclaycard  it means it had to check the policy was suitable for Mrs H. And based on what 
Mrs H has told us about her circumstances at the time, the policy appears to have been right 
for her. 
From the information Ive seen, Mrs H was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to 
have been affected by any of the terms that might have made it harder for her to claim on 
the policy, such as having unusual employment circumstances. So, I dont think Barclaycard 
was wrong to recommend the policy to Mrs H and I think the policy could have been useful 
to her. 
Mrs H could not remember how much sick pay she was entitled to other than statutory and 
she didnt have any other way to make her repayments if she was too ill to work or lost her 
job. Considering the policy would have paid out on top of any sick pay Mrs H received and 
potentially for much longer, and that Mrs H could also have claimed again subject to a 
requalification period, I think the policy could have been useful to her if she fell on hard 
times. 
I also havent seen anything to show the policy was unaffordable for Mrs H at the time of 
sale. 
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mrs H, Barclaycard also needed to give 
her enough information about the policy so she could decide whether to take it or not. Its 
possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs H about the terms and cost of the policy 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was 
suitable for Mrs H, I dont think better information would have made a difference to her 
decision to buy it. So, overall, I dont think this PPI was mis-sold.
Mrs H has raised concerns about Barclaycards handling of her complaint  she is unhappy 
that they could not initially find records of her policy. While I appreciate Mrs H is concerned 
about this, thats not something I can comment on as part of her mis-sale complaint. If she 
wishes to pursue this further, she would need to contact Barclaycard about that.
Mrs H has also said she was made redundant during the life of the policy and that if shed 
known what the policy was for, she could have claimed on it. Ive explained why I think 
Mrs H would have been aware of the policy above  what shes said doesnt make me think 
the policy was mis-sold. But if Mrs H thinks she should have been able to claim on the policy 
while it was in place, she may want to contact the insurer to enquire about backdating her 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman