DRN-2836805
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) failed to provide her with 
appropriate advice about the transfer, and investment, of her pension savings. 
What happened
Mrs N has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company. But, 
for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and 
from, Mrs N herself.
Mrs N held pension savings in an occupational pension scheme (OPS). Those pension 
savings were divided into two separate pots. But for the purposes of this decision, and 
looking at the advice Portal provided, I have decided it is reasonable to treat them as a 
single benefit.
In 2015 Mrs N discussed transferring her pension benefits from the OPS to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). Since she was older than 55 years at that time transferring her 
pension savings would allow her to immediately access a pension commencement lump 
sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash.) Portal advised her against making that 
transfer but agreed to treat Mrs N as an insistent client, and facilitate the transfer for her. It 
provided her with advice about the investment of her pension savings in the SIPP. 
It appears that Mrs N decided not to proceed with the transfer of her pension benefits at that 
time. So Portal provided her with some further advice in 2016 about a similar transfer. As 
before Portal advised Mrs N against making the transfer but agreed to treat her as an 
insistent client, and facilitate the transfer for her. The transfer completed in June 2016 and 
the PCLS was paid to Mrs N. Her remaining pension savings were invested in line with the 
advice she received from Portal.
In 2017 and 2018 Mrs N took further withdrawals from her pension savings. It isnt clear to 
me whether Portal provided her with any advice or a recommendation before those 
withdrawals were made. However I dont consider those withdrawals form part of the 
complaint Mrs N has made, so I wont look into them any further in this decision.
Mrs Ns complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think it had been 
reasonable for Portal to treat Mrs N as an insistent client. So he didnt think Mrs N should 
have been assisted in transferring her pension savings from the OPS to the SIPP. Our 
investigator asked Portal to put things right for Mrs N.
Portal didnt agree with our investigators assessment. In brief it said that it had carefully 
followed the regulators requirements for dealing with insistent clients. It thought that Mrs N 
had been given clear information about the risks of the transfer, and that she had decided to 
proceed regardless. It said it had assessed Mrs Ns attitude to risk and so, given it had 
treated her as an insistent client, it had implemented an appropriate investment approach. 
Portal says that Mrs Ns decision to take further withdrawals from her pension savings in 
2017 and 2018 validates an assessment of her need for flexible access to her pension 
funds.
Since the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mrs N accepts my decision it 
is legally binding on both parties.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs N and by Portal. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think there are three matters that I need to consider here. Firstly, whether the advice Portal 
gave to Mrs N about potentially transferring her pension savings from the OPS was suitable. 
I then need to think about whether it was right for Portal to treat Mrs N as an insistent client, 
and facilitate the transfer of her pension benefits despite it being contrary to its advice. And 
finally, should I consider Portal acted reasonably in the first two aspects, then to consider the 
advice it gave to Mrs N about the investment of her pension savings.
As I said earlier, Portal gave advice about the transfer to Mrs N in both 2015 and 2016. But it 
seems that its work in 2015 didnt result in Mrs N transferring her pension savings. Mrs Ns 
complaint is that Portal shouldnt have facilitated the transfer process  so I cannot see that 
her complaint reasonably covers what happened in 2015 when the transfer didnt progress. 
Even if I were to consider that Portal had acted inappropriately, I cannot see that Mrs N 
would have lost out since her pension savings remained with the OPS at that time.
So I think the advice that I need to consider here, is that given to Mrs N by Portal in 2016. It 
would be first helpful to consider the relevant regulations from the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Portal advised Mrs N were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Portal, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, Portal 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mrs Ns 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to   
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;  
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
In looking at the suitability of a transfer of Mrs Ns pension savings I think Portal gathered the 
necessary information from Mrs N and the administrator of her OPS. It used that information 
to calculate what is known as the critical yield. In simple terms, that is the rate at which 
Mrs Ns pension investments would need to grow after any transfer in order to replicate the benefits that she was giving up from the OPS. Portal estimated that for Mrs N the critical 
yield would be between 10% and 11% if she were to take a PCLS. Portal rightly concluded 
that achieving that critical yield would be unlikely, and so it couldnt recommend that Mrs N 
transfer her pension savings from the OPS.
I think that was the correct recommendation in Mrs Ns circumstances. She held valuable 
guaranteed benefits with the OPS. And it seems that she had little else, such as alternative 
pensions or savings, that she could use to support her living costs once she had retired. So 
I dont think it would have been appropriate to recommend that Mrs N give up her 
guaranteed benefits and transfer her pension savings to a SIPP.
Portal says that, once it had delivered its advice to Mrs N, to not transfer her pension 
savings, she asked to be treated as an insistent client. That would mean that Mrs N was 
effectively disregarding Portals advice and asking that the transfer progress regardless. 
That insistent client process does however place a number of obligations on Portal to ensure 
that it has provided Mrs N with sufficient information about the risks she was taking. And it is 
important for Portal to ensure that it hasnt acted in such a way that Mrs N was persuaded to 
follow an insistent approach.
I have a number of concerns about whether it was reasonable for Portal to treat Mrs N as an 
insistent client. And in particular whether Portal s actions encouraged Mrs N to follow that 
approach.
I have listened carefully to the conversations that Mrs N had with Portal by telephone before 
she completed the paperwork to become an insistent client. Those conversations largely 
took place before any formal advice had been sent to Mrs N  although I will touch further on 
the written documentation later. In those conversations, I think that Portal very much gave 
the impression to Mrs N that its processes would simply facilitate her wish to take her PCLS. 
I dont think those early conversations sufficiently set out the contrary argument  and in 
particular explained the regulators assumption that generally transfers of this nature would 
not be considered to be in the best interests of a consumer. I think that Portal s actions 
raised an expectation for Mrs N that she should take her PCLS.
It is my understanding that the insistent client process is in place to provide a route for 
experienced and fully informed consumers to be allowed to make their own investment 
decisions. At times consumers might wish to take approaches that are not always in their 
best financial interests. But it would be wrong for regulators to prevent those decisions if the 
consumer is fully aware of the risks they are taking.
I dont think that sentiment applies in this case. Mrs N has provided testimony that she didnt 
understand what was happening with her pension savings. She says that she was unaware 
of the terminology insistent client until she made her complaint. I havent seen anything to 
cast doubt on what she says.
The regulator thinks it appropriate that consumers should be asked to explain, in their own 
words and handwriting, why they intend to disregard the advice that has been provided to 
them. I can see that Portal did ask Mrs N to complete that part of its paperwork. Mrs Ns 
answer to the question of why she wished to access her pension fund early, against the 
advice of Portal, was simply to do home improvements.
The wording that Mrs N chose there suggests to me that her focus was very much on the 
output of her decision  namely to access her PCLS. It doesnt suggest to me that she had 
been sufficiently advised on, and therefore considered, the risks of the transfer and therefore 
the likely impact on her limited retirement savings.I have also considered the use that Mrs N intended to make of the PCLS. When she first 
discussed the situation with Portal she seems to me to have been embarrassed when 
explaining that she wanted to use the money to renovate her bathroom. Portal reassured her 
that home improvements was one of the most common reasons people took a PCLS. So 
again I think that would have reassured Mrs N that the approach she was taking was entirely 
appropriate and in line with how many consumers would behave.
The options form that Portal sent to Mrs N, before she made her decision about how to 
proceed showed the transfer of her benefits as Option 1. And the Do Nothing option was 
listed as Option 2. That in itself might have subliminally suggested to Mrs N that she should 
proceed with the transfer, despite it being against the advice of Portal.
So, on balance, I dont think it is reasonable, for Portal to say that it only effected the transfer 
because Mrs N requested it to do so as an insistent client. I dont think that Portal could 
reasonably conclude that Mrs N was fully aware of its advice that she should take no action 
at all  instead I think that, from the very outset of its relationship with Mrs N, Portal led her 
to understand that transferring her pension benefits and taking a PCLS would be an 
appropriate course of action, and one taken by the majority of consumers in her 
circumstances.
Given that I have concluded that Mrs N shouldnt have been treated as an insistent client, it 
follows that I dont think Portal should have assisted her with the transfer of her pension 
benefits from the OPS. I will therefore direct Portal to put things right for Mrs N by applying 
the regulators guidance on redress of this nature. And by doing that any problems with the 
subsequent advice given to Mrs N about the investment of her pension savings will also be 
corrected. So I dont need to consider that part of the complaint any further.
I have considered that Mrs N took two further withdrawals from her pension savings in 
subsequent years. But I dont share Portal s assessment that this shows its advice was 
appropriate and that Mrs N had an ongoing need to access her pension savings. If anything 
I think it highlights the perils of the course of action Portal facilitated  allowing Mrs N 
unfettered access to funds that were intended to provide her with an income for many years 
to come.
So I dont think Portal should have assisted Mrs N with the transfer of her pension savings 
from the OPS to a SIPP. Portal needs to put things right.
 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mrs N, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in if she had remained a member of the OPS  though I accept 
that it should take account of the PCLS and additional capital withdrawals that Mrs N has 
received. Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ns acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ns 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ns SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ns pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs N within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mrs N.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ns complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP 
to put things right as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman