DRN-3283190
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund the money she lost after paying for an 
item she did not receive. 
What happened
Miss P wanted to buy a leather cardholder made by a luxury fashion brand. She found a 
profile on Instagram which presented itself as a clothing store offering an exclusive personal 
shopping service. It claimed to be based in the UK and offering authentic designer clothing. 
The profile explained that users should sent a direct message to place an order. 
Miss P sent a direct message with a screenshot from a luxury goods website showing the 
cardholder she wanted. The retail price of the cardholder was £265. Miss P asked the 
clothing store if it would be able to source that particular item at a discounted price. 
The seller replied that it could. It gave a price of £160 plus postage. Miss P asked if the item 
came with the authentication paperwork from the brand and the seller said it did. Miss P 
asked how to place the order. The seller responded to say that it would send her bank 
details and then an order confirmation would be emailed to her after shed made the 
payment. 
Miss P transferred £166.50 from her Monzo account to the Monzo bank details provided by 
the seller. She sent a screenshot to confirm shed paid and the seller responded to say the 
order would be processed. When Miss P didnt receive a confirmation email, she chased the 
seller up. The seller never responded. The bank details shed paid disappeared from her 
Monzo app. 
Miss P thought something was wrong and contacted Monzo for help. She explained that she 
was buying a cardholder from an Instagram business profile and it had looked authentic 
because the account was very active and had over 29,000 followers as well as positive 
reviews from celebrities.
As Monzo was also the receiving bank, it acted quickly to see if it could recover any of the 
funds. But the money Miss P had sent no longer remained. Monzo went on to consider 
whether it should refund Miss P for her loss. But it turned down her claim for a refund and 
said she didnt take enough steps to check who she was paying and what for. When Miss P 
complained, Monzo said it had acted in line with its internal procedures and regulatory 
guidelines.  
Miss P brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with the banks decision. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He noted 
that Monzo is not a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to it. 
This means Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of 
authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances. Our Investigator didnt 
think any of those circumstances applied here. 
He said Monzo had not been able to establish that Miss P did not have a reasonable basis 
for believing that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the payment was for 
genuine goods and/or that the person she was transacting with was legitimate. In reaching 
that position, he placed weight on Instagram as a recognised selling platform. He pointed out 
that this Instagram account had many followers and positive reviews. He thought the way the 
seller presented its information, such as the terms and conditions of sale being fully shown, 
would have been reassuring. He felt the reviews that were incorporated into the account tied 
in with what could be expected when selling discounted designer goods. He thought Monzo 
should have fully reimbursed Miss Ps loss.
Monzo disagreed. It said legitimate businesses use Instagram as a platform to link through 
to official ecommerce websites so felt the operation of this business should have raised 
concern. It pointed out that reviews that claimed the seller was a scam had been posted 11 
weeks before Miss P made the payment and said that Instagram followers can easily be 
bought to present a false online presence. It thought Miss P should have done more due 
diligence. It thought she should have questioned why a seemingly large business would be 
accepting funds into a personal bank account. It thought the discount that was being offered 
on a brand new, designer item was infeasible and this should have prompted Miss P to 
question why the seller was able to offer such a wide variety of designer items at such a 
reduced cost. 
Our Investigator wasnt minded to change his view of the complaint. He asked Miss P for her 
comments. She said there were thousands of businesses that solely use Instagram as their 
main page and referred to transactions she had successfully made in the past when 
purchasing cakes and balloons. She pointed out the Instagram page included pictures 
showing a high volume of packages ready for dispatch along with postage and tracking 
details for those items. She pointed to trading platforms where it is possible to buy designer 
items for discounted prices to support the legitimacy of the deal. She concluded by saying 
other banks had refunded people that had been scammed by this page in the exact same 
way that she had been taken in. 
Monzo did not agree. It maintained the view that Miss P did not have a reasonable basis for 
belief when making this payment. It thought she had sent the payment to an unknown 
individual online without proper basis for trusting them. It thought some of the places Miss P 
had highlighted designer goods being available at discounted prices such as auction 
websites and resale websites were not real opportunities either. It thought Miss P should 
have done wider due diligence and felt it had no obligation to refund the loss when correctly 
applying the CRM Code. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Miss P in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to 
adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss P from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss P was tricked into making the payment. She thought she 
would receive a designer cardholder in exchange for her money and the seller did not keep 
to their side of that bargain. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Miss P to receive a 
refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code also places a level of care on Miss P. 
The CRM Code
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. 
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. Monzo has explained its key 
concern in this case is whether Miss P made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing that the payee was the person the she was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom she transacted was 
legitimate. There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this 
case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I am not persuaded the concerns Monzo has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Miss P was making are enough to support its 
position that she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the 
payment she made. It follows that I do not think Monzo has been able to establish that it may 
choose not to reimburse Miss P under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Having thought about what both sides have said and provided, I consider Miss P had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment she was making was for genuine goods and that 
the person she was transacting with was legitimate. In reaching that conclusion, I have 
thought carefully about what it is realistic to have expected Miss P to do when she was 
looking to spend a total of £166.50 online. 
The screenshots provided show how the Instagram account would have most likely 
appeared at the time of the sale. The set-up of the sellers profile is professional. It has close 
up pictures of designer goods, along with a dedicated section for reviews. It posts onto 
Instagram regularly and with content that gives the impression that it has a large number of 
satisfied customers and is making a considerable volume of daily sales. In addition to this, it 
has a high number of followers. Miss P has explained that she saw celebrity endorsements 
for products amongst the reviews. The profile also contains sections explaining the terms 
and conditions of sale, including a returns policy, along with frequently asked questions. Having looked at this information, I dont think there was anything obviously untoward about 
the seller. I think all of this information when taken together would have lulled Miss P into a 
false sense of security at the time she made the payment. I dont think it was unreasonable 
for her to have thought she was dealing with a well-established seller that had made many 
successful transactions. From what Miss P recalls that she saw, she had no reason to think 
the seller would not keep to their side of the bargain on this occasion.
Ive thought about the price Miss P paid thinking she was purchasing a small leather item 
from a luxury fashion house. Monzo feels a discount of 42% on a brand new, designer item 
was not feasible and if the seller was able to offer such a wide variety of items from a 
number of brands at such reduced costs, Miss P should have reflected on whether this was 
too good to be true. Its clear Miss P knew what the recommended retail price for the item 
should be based on the screenshot she initially sent to the seller. But I dont think the price 
the seller gave was such that Miss P ought to have questioned it more in her own mind when 
viewed in the context of the overall situation she found herself in. People can and do find 
good deals online. Miss B explains that she saw the positive reviews left by other customers, 
including photographs of them with the items. She felt the large following gave the seller 
credibility and that the pictures of the postage and tracking information uploaded by the 
seller confirmed they genuinely had these items to sell. 
Even though Monzo has highlighted there was more Miss P could have done to assure 
herself that she could trust the seller, I am not persuaded Miss P needed to make such 
extensive enquiries in the particular circumstances of this case. Ive thought carefully about 
the price of the item Miss P wanted to buy and how the sellers operation was presented on 
Instagram. Whilst the situation is finely balanced, I think Miss Ps actions and assessment of 
the situation was appropriate and proportionate to an unremarkable payment of £166.50. 
Weighing it all up, I dont think it would have been evident to Miss P that there was a 
considerable degree of risk associated with this purchase. Shes explained that she did not 
think someone would go to such an extent to create a fake profile so I am persuaded it did 
not occur to her that there was a possibility she wouldnt receive the item or that it might not 
be genuine. Fraudsters are masterful at building and trust and confidence and it is not 
realistic to expect Miss P to have the same awareness of what scams like this can look and 
feel like as the bank does. 
I think Miss P took enough care with a relatively modest purchase of £166.50 to say that she 
had a reasonable basis for believing she was buying genuine goods from a legitimate seller. 
I dont believe she took a calculated chance by going ahead with the purchase in the 
circumstances she did. 
Overall, I dont think Miss Ps actions fell below the level of care expected of her in this 
situation. I think Monzo ought to have fully refunded Miss P at the time she reported the loss 
and so it should fairly and reasonably compensate Miss P by refunding that loss now.
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost. 
So I think its fair that Monzo refunds the £166.50 Miss P lost, along with 8% simple interest 
from the date Monzo declined her claim until the date the funds are returned.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay the 
settlement as Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman