DRN-3162803
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Astrenska Insurance Limited has handled his claim under a 
landlord home emergency policy. 
Any reference to Astrenska includes agents acting on their behalf. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts about what happened arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for largely the 
same reasons:
Mr M feels the repair process for his boiler took too long and caused unnecessary 
inconvenience. The engineer attended Mr Ms rental property the same day the issue 
was reported. I can see from the notes that the engineer was unable to fix the boiler 
and needed to obtain parts which meant the engineer would need to revisit to fix the 
boiler. 
The parts were ordered the following morning but because they were arriving at an 
unknown time the next day the engineer booked to attend the day after, so the 
engineer could be sure the parts would be received to carry out the repair. So I dont 
think this delay was unreasonable, as parts were needed and there wasnt a certain 
time they would arrive the following day. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr M would have liked them to have repaired the boiler sooner, 
its not always possible and would likely be dependent on the availability of the parts 
needed for the repair. And considering the time of year its likely Astrenska would 
have been quite busy during this period so I dont think it was unreasonable that they 
werent able to send an engineer immediately after Mr M reported the issue.  
There is no dispute things could have been communicated better during the claim 
process. Astrenska have acknowledged that they should have advised Mr M about 
his right to get a heating allowance of £40 as soon as they knew the repair would 
take more than 48 hours. Initially Astrenska offered Mr M £40 in recognition of the 
error but subsequently offered a further £50, as the £40 offered would only have 
been what they should have offered for the heating allowance had they done what 
they should have. 
I appreciate Mr M feels the compensation offered falls short of an acceptable amount 
and doesnt adequately represent the inconvenience caused not only to him but also 
to his tenants. But as the policy was his and not his tenants  the rules I have to 
adhere to mean I can only consider the impact of Astrenskas error on him and not 
his tenants. 
So Ive thought about the impact on Mr M overall. This includes the time he spent 
having to chase Astrenska and deal with the claim. I recognise the experience would 
have been frustrating for Mr M. But awards for distress and inconvenience from this 
service are generally modest. It isnt the role of this service to punish businesses. I 
think the amount offered is fair and is in line with amounts awarded by this service for 
similar cases.
I understand Mr M will likely be disappointed with my findings. But, in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Astrenskas offer of compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Astrenska Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £90 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Astrenska Insurance Limited should pay £90 to Mr M if it hasnt done 
so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman