DRN-4467857
The complaint
Miss B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc arent taking into account her personal 
circumstances regarding her borrowings with them.
What happened
Miss B says that during the pandemic she lost all of her income for over two years, and she 
has also been suffering from physical and mental health issues for around four years. She 
says her credit card and loan repayments were stopped during the pandemic, but NatWest 
required her to start making repayments which came to over £600 a month without asking 
her to fill in her income and expenditure. She says that in October 2022, she asked for a 
stop to be put on her repayments as she was unable to afford these. She asked them for an 
affordability check to be completed, but Miss B says they refused, and theyve suggested 
she goes down a default route, with her overdraft being removed which she relies on. Miss B 
made a complaint to NatWest.
NatWest did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. They said they had correctly followed their 
internal processes and advised her that if she cannot come to an arrangement for her debt 
then they will rightfully start the default process. They said she was also correctly given the 
option to go down the default route as her loan cannot be maintained. NatWest said the only 
way to stop the interest and charges on her personal account is to be defaulted and for her 
to open a new account without an overdraft. Miss B brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. He said when a consumer suffers ill 
health, and financial difficulties, we expect a business to listen, and to put reasonable 
measures in place to help. He said NatWest twice agreed to defer payments, as well as 
providing breathing space, and forbearance. He said they reviewed her finances and agreed 
a repayment plan. But unfortunately Miss B was unable to maintain this due to a change in 
her circumstances. 
Miss B asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she wasnt given a 
reasonable repayment plan and given her circumstances she would have expected either to 
be given more time to pay, or a monthly amount that would not have been financially 
crippling to her. Miss B said she is now working part time, so she would like NatWest to 
reconsider and suggest another repayment plan which is more sympathetic to her situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us including detailed information about her health. But, in line with this 
services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Due to the pandemic. Miss B suffered a loss of income. NatWest deferred her payments 
twice for three months each time. But due to Miss Bs personal circumstances at the time, 
she was unable to return to making her contractual payments. She notified NatWest about 
her financial difficulties and her health situation, and they correctly identified her as a 
vulnerable customer. So what we would expect NatWest to do here is to listen to a borrower, 
get an understanding of her individual circumstances and discuss what help is appropriate. 
I can see that NatWest treated Miss B positively and sympathetically by not only giving her 
the payment deferrals, but they also showed her further forbearance by giving her breathing 
space. A default would usually occur if the customer falls into arrears on their account, or 
they do not keep to the revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be recorded to show 
that the relationship has broken down. As a general guide, this may occur when somebody 
is three months in arrears, and normally by the time somebody is six months in arrears. 
So I do think that NatWest took Miss Bs circumstances into account by not registering a 
default when they would have been able to go down the default route a lot earlier than what 
they are proposing now. And Im satisfied that this was an appropriate route as in late 2021, 
Miss B and NatWest did come to an arrangement. So a default would have been premature 
if NatWest went down this route when they could have done. 
Ive looked at NatWests system notes regarding this arrangement. Prior to this plan being 
agreed, I can see the income and expenditure that Miss B told them, so I cant agree they 
didnt go through her income and expenditure prior to the plan being in place. This showed 
her as having £1,704 a month income, and expenditure of £711 a month, so it does appear 
that Miss B had the affordability to make repayments. She agreed to enter into an 18 month 
plan. And it does appear that Miss B was able to maintain her repayments for nearly a year 
before she phoned NatWest in September 2022 to let them know her financial 
circumstances had changed. 
So it appears the plan was affordable for Miss B originally as she had maintained her 
repayments, but when her financial and personal circumstances changed, this is when the 
repayments appear to have become unaffordable. So NatWest applied further breathing 
space. It appears Miss B gave NatWest her outgoings in November 2022, and she told them 
that while she was working 10 hours, she would be losing two hours, and will be losing 
another two hours. 
Based on this, NatWest suggested the default route. And Im not persuaded this was an 
unfair suggestion. NatWest had provided forbearance for a substantial amount of time given 
the guidance on when a default would typically be registered. And when Miss B broke the 
arrangement, NatWest could have gone down the default route straight away. But they 
didnt, and they gave her breathing space. But unfortunately an arrangement could not be 
agreed based on Miss Bs financial circumstances. And NatWest had exhausted their 
options as Miss B first suffered financial difficulties over two years ago. So I cant say they 
made an error here. 
I do note that Miss B has said she is now working part time, so she would like NatWest to 
reconsider and suggest another repayment plan which is more sympathetic to her situation. 
So Miss B may wish to give them a call to see if they can come to an agreement on a new 
arrangement based on her current situation. She may also want to contact the Free 
Independent Money Advice Services companies that they referred her to in their final 
response letter. But it follows I dont require NatWest to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman