DRN-4415873
The complaint
Mr G complains about the price quoted by Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage) to renew his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G received a quote to renew his policy which he says was significantly higher than what 
hed paid the previous year. He says he queried this with Advantage and the only 
explanation they gave was that he had a no-fault claim showing on his policy. Mr G feels its 
unfair for this to have such an impact on his policy so he decided not to renew and 
complained to Advantage because they wouldnt provide him with any more detail about the 
price increase.  
Advantage responded and explained they could see Mr G contacted them as his renewal 
premium had increased from last years price. They said the call handler explained 
premiums can increase depending on risk factors and sometimes they can increase even if 
nothing has changed. Advantage said the call handler explained a claim showing on Mr Gs 
policy had an impact on the price. They said they use the latest market information to price 
their policies and these details change daily. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. She upheld the complaint as she felt Advantage 
hadnt provided our service with sufficient information to show no error had been made when 
calculating Mr Gs renewal  so she recommended they pay Mr G £100. Mr G agreed but 
Advantage havent responded so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr Gs renewal price for 2023 was £1,445.35  which Mr G says is 47% more than 
what he paid the previous year. So, I understand why Mr G is concerned about the price 
increase. Advantage say, when reviewing this complaint, they checked the premium and 
cost change areas of their policy system and have been unable to identify any errors with the 
calculation. They say Mr Gs no-fault accident would have an impact on the price. They say 
based on this theyre confident the price is fair and correct. 
I do appreciate Mr G will want to know more detail around what specific factors have led to 
the premium increase and he was left frustrated at not receiving a response to his questions 
about the specific factors which have contributed to the increase. Pricing is an area where 
the information which sits behind an insurers explanation will often be commercially 
sensitive. So, I dont think Advantage have acted unreasonably in not providing Mr G with 
details of the specific ratings. 
When our service looks at complaints about pricing, well ask for information from a business 
to demonstrate why and how a price has increased. What information is considered 
reasonable will depend on a case by case basis, but insurers generally will provide 
confidential business sensitive information to explain how a customers price has been 
calculated. This might involve evidence of rating factors and loading tables to show, more 
specifically, which loadings have increased to justify the price increase. Generally, and 
particularly in cases where the price has increased significantly, its this level of detail that 
allows our service to check the information and provide a customer with reassurance that 
there hasnt been a mistake in the calculation and that theyve been treated fairly and no 
different to any other customer in the same circumstances.  
In this case, Advantage have provided a breakdown of the policy showing the net premium. 
Theyve also provided a screenshot showing the differences between the 2022 and 2023 
policy. This shows what appears to be some rating sections and a series of blanks beside 
the 2022 policy details and ticks beside the 2023 policy details. Its not clear whether this 
indicates these sections applied to the 2023 policy but didnt apply to the 2022 policy. I have 
asked Advantage for clarity on this, but I havent received a response. So, even if I take this 
as being a difference between the two policies, Im not persuaded this alone demonstrates 
the price for the 2023 policy was calculated fairly. 
I say this because this doesnt provide sufficient information or an explanation for how these 
rating sections have affected the price. In this case, when comparing the 2023 policy 
information with the 2022 policy, the information shows a rating score for Mr G has reduced 
by 0.134 and the value of the car has reduced by £2,580. While I accept these are only two 
factors impacting the overall risk, its understandable why Mr G will be concerned about why 
his price has increased.   
The statement of insurance document shows a no-fault claim recorded on Mr Gs policy  
and I can see Advantage say this has had an impact on the price. I acknowledge this, and I 
would also add that its not unusual or uncommon for this factor to impact the price. But 
again, I havent been provided with any information or explanation for how this impacted the 
price and to what extent. 
Advantage say they arent able to provide any further information. Theyve described how 
their rating strategy now works  they say all ratings are built into the system and are 
produced electronically. They say, in this case, the renewal was calculated by the system 
with no manual intervention. I have carefully considered Advantages points about how their 
system works and the information provided. But, in the circumstances of this case, Im not 
persuaded theres sufficient evidence to satisfy me the increase is fair. 
I do wish to make it clear Im not saying there has been an error in the pricing calculation. 
Instead, the reason Im upholding Mr Gs complaint is, given the significant increase in the 
price, I would need to see evidence and a clear explanation showing why and how the price 
increased as it did for Mr Gs renewal  and in this case, this information hasnt been 
provided in a way which would allow me to reassure Mr G that theres been no error here. 
So, taking this into account, I understand why Mr G was left frustrated and confused by the 
price increase  and I think compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.     Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Advantage havent provided sufficient information or a clear 
explanation to demonstrate why and how Mr Gs price increased as it did for his renewal. So 
Advantage should pay Mr G £100 compensation for the frustration and confusion caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman