DRN-2071304
The complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2004 at a meeting in one of the 
banks branches. It gave her protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint because:
Mrs H says if shed know the PPI was optional she wouldnt have taken it. I cant know 
what was said in the meeting, but Ive looked at the paperwork available from the sale. 
The application form Mrs H signed shows she selected PPI. And I dont think theres 
anything on the form that could reasonably have led Mrs H to think it was mandatory. 
On balance, I think Bank of Scotland made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mrs H 
chose to take it out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs H so it had to check if it was suitable 
for her. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. She 
was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick and a 
redundancy package. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits 
and for up to 12 months. So, overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mrs H 
if she was sick, had an accident or lost her job. 
I agree its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Mrs H chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. Overall, 
I think it unlikely Mrs H wouldve made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mrs H paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs H back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Mrs H.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman