DRN-1928168
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red 
Sands) declined a pet insurance claim for their dogs treatment. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs As complaint is about an Animal Friends policy, so Ill refer to Animal Friends 
throughout this decision. But the policy is underwritten by Red Sands which is the 
responsible business for this complaint. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. 
Im satisfied that the condition Mr and Mrs As dog needed treatment for in 2019 was 
excluded from cover. This is because a symptom that Mr and Mrs As dog 
experienced in 2016  vomiting  meant that claims in respect to the digestive 
system would no longer be covered as of 1 May 2017. This is due to the underwriting 
criteria, which Ive seen, and not because the illnesses in 2016 and 2019 were 
deemed to be linked. The 2019 illness wasnt considered to be a pre-existing medical 
condition. Mr and Mrs A accept that the condition in 2019 was excluded, though they 
feel its incredibly unfair.
The outstanding issue on this complaint is that Mr and Mrs A feel strongly that they 
werent made aware of the exclusion. Theyve raised several points relating to how 
Animal Friends chose to communicate the exclusion to them. They think they 
shouldve been notified of the exclusion by email rather than letter, which wouldve 
removed the possibility of it being lost in the post. As it happens, Mr and Mrs A have 
explained they didnt receive a letter which Animal Friends said was sent in 2016 to 
make them aware of the exclusion. Mr and Mrs A also feel that the exclusion 
shouldve been more prominently displayed in the communication that they did 
receive. And theyve said it was misleading to state that there may have been 
changes to the policy, rather than that there were, and that they were told they didnt 
have to do anything. 
Ive taken all of their points into consideration, but this service doesnt generally 
interfere with commercial decisions such as these. It is for me to decide whether 
Animal Friends did enough to make the exclusion clear to Mr and Mrs A  and Ill 
come onto this next. But its not for me say precisely how it should do this, such as by 
expecting it to use an alternative method of communication when there wouldve 
been no reason to expect that Mr and Mrs A wouldnt receive the letter it sent. Nor 
would it be for me to say Animal Friends should use particular wording i.e. saying 
there were changes, rather than that there may be  this isnt factually inaccurate. 
Its also not factually inaccurate to say that Mr and Mrs A didnt have to do anything. 
By not doing anything, the policy remained in place. It would only be if, after 
reviewing the available information, Mr and Mrs A needed or wanted to make an 
amendment, that theyd need to take action. I dont find this to be misleading.
Ive thought carefully about how the exclusion was presented to Mr and Mrs A. We 
know that a letter was sent in 2016 to explain that an exclusion for the digestive 
system was being applied. But Mr and Mrs A told Animal Friends and us that they 
didnt receive this. Animal Friends said it was sorry to hear that it hadnt been 
received. So, while I dont think this is an admission of wrongdoing as such, it seems 
to have been generally accepted that the letter wasnt received. 
Looking beyond that 2016 letter, I can see that Mr and Mrs A were sent policy 
schedules in 2017, 2018 and 2019  which Ive seen  which were around three 
pages each. These schedules seem to have accompanied the full terms and 
conditions but were specific to Mr and Mrs As dog. It showed a summary of cover, 
provided scenarios where Mr and Mrs A would need to call the insurer, and had a 
section entitled SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS/WARRANTIES TO YOUR POLICY NOT 
CONTAINED WITHIN YOUR POLICY WORDING. Under this, the schedules said 
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to The Digestive system with effect from 
1st May 2017. Im satisfied that this information was presented in a clear, fair and not 
misleading manner, in a place which Id expect Mr and Mrs A to see, as it was within 
a document produced solely for the policyholder, containing a declaration for the 
insurance. And the same information was provided over the course of three years, so 
I think there was ample opportunity to see and query this. 
I recognise how disappointing it is when a claim is declined, especially when it means that a 
policyholder incurs high costs as a result. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, the 
condition was excluded, and Animal Friends did enough to make Mr and Mrs A aware of this 
exclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman