DRN-3148943
The complaint
Mr V complains that the vehicle he acquired under a hire agreement with Hitachi Capital 
(UK) plc trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions didnt have all of the items included in 
the vehicle specification.
What happened
Mr V entered into a hire agreement with Hitachi in August 2020 and the vehicle was 
delivered to him later that month. The hire agreement was regulated under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
When the vehicle was delivered, Mr V noticed that several items were missing. He 
contacted the broker by email about this. He said the following items were missing:
Front and rear carpet mats with the vehicle insignia;
A safety kit, including a safety triangle;
A first aid kit
A high visibility vest with the vehicle insignia.
Mr V says that despite his representations to the broker, nothing was done. So, he 
complained to Hitachi.
Hitachi investigated his complaint. It said that the safety triangle didnt come as standard. 
But, it agreed to send this to him as a gesture of goodwill. It also said that the vehicle had 
been on special offer at the time. It said this meant that the mats were not included as 
standard. It agreed to send the top specification mats to a local garage for Mr V to 
collect. And, it paid £75 into his account by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr V didnt accept what Hitachi had said. He complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said she was persuaded, on balance, that 
Hitachi had made a false statement in its specification document when it said that the 
mats (with the insignia) and the safety kit (which included the safety triangle, first aid kit 
and high visibility vest) would be provided. But she wasnt persuaded that Mr V had been 
induced to enter into the agreement because of this false statement.
She noted that Hitachi had supplied the safety triangle, mats (albeit without the vehicle 
insignia) and paid him £75 for distress and inconvenience. She thought this was fair and 
reasonable. So, she didnt think Hitachi needed to do anything more to resolve the 
complaint.
Mr V didnt agree. He said that the vehicle didnt meet the specification in the contract. He 
also expressed the view that at the end of the contract hed be required to return items 
which he hadnt been given in the first place.
Because Mr V didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mr V acquired the vehicle under a hire agreement, which is a regulated 
agreement. Our service can investigate certain complaints about goods and 
services supplied under this sort of agreement.
Mr Vs complaint is that certain items were to be included with the vehicle but 
when the vehicle was delivered these items were not present. So, he is 
saying that the vehicle was not as described.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) sets out the terms that are 
implied in a contract for the supply of goods. This specifically includes an 
agreement for the hire of goods. So, Ive considered what that legislation 
says when considering Mr Vs complaint.
Section11 of the CRA states that every contract to supply goods by 
description is to be treated as including a term that the goods will match 
the description. In this case Mr V entered into the hire agreement by 
using an online website. He says that he relied on the information in a 
brochure which was available on the website. This information would also 
have been publicly available on the website for the car manufacturer.
So, Mr V was entitled to expect the car he hired under the agreement with 
Hitachi to be as described.
Ive looked at the specification for the vehicle detailed in the brochure. Mr 
V has provided a copy of this. I can see it states the following in relation to 
the various items that Mr V has referred to:
Standard: Safety Kit (includes triangle, first aid kit and yellow vest;)
Front and rear carpet mats (badged with the  vehicle 
insignia).
So, Mr V is correct when he says that he wouldve expected these items to 
have been provided as standard with the vehicle. But, Ive also noted that 
the brochure, which sets out the specification, includes the following 
wording:
Please refer to the price and specification guide for correct 
detail on UK specification. Every endeavor has been made to 
ensure that the information and details contained in this 
brochure were accurate at the time of going to press (December 
2017). However, the Company reserves the right, whilst 
presenting the essential characteristics of the models described, 
to introduce at any time modification, changes of details, 
equipment or accessories. Every effort will be made to bring this 
brochure up to date but in order to avoid any misunderstanding 
please consult your dealer.Having read the information set out in the brochure, Im not persuaded 
that it was fair and reasonable for Mr V to conclude that the absence of 
the safety kit and the front and rear mats (badged with the vehicle 
insignia) meant the vehicle was not as described.
When reaching that view, Ive taken into account the wording in the hire 
agreement which Mr V signed. The agreement details the make and model 
of the vehicle being hired. That was the core element of the bargain 
between Mr V and Hitachi. The vehicle which was supplied met that 
description. And, although the safety kit and the mats werent supplied, Im 
satisfied, given the wording in the brochure, they were not part of the 
essential characteristics of the vehicle or came as standard in the vehicle he 
hired.
Ive also considered what Hitachi told us about the vehicle being supplied. It 
says the vehicle was supplied as a special offer under a sales campaign at 
the time. It has provided a copy of the invoice for the vehicle which shows 
that there was a substantial discount applied to the purchase price of the 
vehicle. The price under the hire agreement reflected the discounted 
purchase price. So, taking into account the wording in the brochure and the 
price, Im satisfied on balance that the goods were as described.
Ive also considered whether Mr Vs decision to enter into the contract was 
influenced by the statements in the brochure about the safety kit and the 
carpet mats. Mr V says he wanted to use the vehicle to travel around Europe 
and, he says that in some European countries, the safety kit is a legal 
requirement. So, he says he wouldnt have gone ahead if hed known this 
wasnt included as standard.
Having thought about what Mr V has said and the discount applied, Im 
currently persuaded, on balance, its likely Mr V would still have proceeded 
even if the items referred to above had not been detailed in the specification 
as being standard.
When reaching that view Ive considered the actions Hitachi took here to try 
to resolve this complaint. It provided the safety triangle to Mr V and arranged 
for the front and rear mats to be available for him to collect from a local 
dealer. It is the case that the mats didnt bear the vehicle insignia  but the 
invoice provided for the mats shows that they would still have been of a 
satisfactory standard.
Hitachi also paid £75 into Mr Vs account by way of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. I think that wouldve been sufficient to cover 
Mr Vs cost of travel to collect the mats and any additional expense he may 
have incurred if he wanted to purchase a first aid kit and a high visibility 
vest.
Mr V says he thinks hell be required to return the items that he didnt 
receive when his hire period ends. I can understand why he might be 
concerned about that. But, Hitachi has told our service:
With regard to the return of the vehicle at end of contract, 
there would be no recharges raised for different mats or 
missing equipment ie first aid kit or high visibility vest.So, Hitachi has confirmed that Mr V will not be required to return items he 
didnt receive when he acquired the vehicle.
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision based on what Ive 
seen so far is that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require 
Hitachi to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I do not intend to 
uphold this complaint about Hitachi Capital (UK) plc trading as Hitachi Capital 
Vehicle Solutions.
Hitachi accepted my provisional decision.
Mr V responded to my provisional decision. He said hed not been informed at any stage that 
the leasing arrangement was a special offer and he didnt know where that information had 
come from. He thought the arguments in the provisional decision were invalid and he wasnt 
aware of any changes to the vehicle specification.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr V has said in response to my provisional decision. 
At the outset Id just reiterate that although the safety kit and the mats werent supplied to Mr 
V, I remain satisfied given the wording about the vehicle specification in the brochure, they 
were not part of the essential characteristics of the vehicle or came as standard in the 
vehicle he hired. So, my view remains that the vehicle supplied here was as described. 
Mr V says he wasnt aware the hire agreement was a special offer. But, as I said in my 
provisional decision, Hitachi has provided a copy of the invoice for this vehicle. This shows it 
was purchased by Hitachi at a significant discount and that discount was reflected in the 
repayments Mr V was required to make under the hire agreement. So, in reaching my 
provisional decision, I had taken this evidence into account. 
Mr V hasnt commented on the wording in the brochure. And he hasnt commented about 
what I said concerning the essential characteristics of the vehicle. He also hasnt disputed 
what I said about his decision to enter into the contract. I said that I was persuaded, on 
balance, his decision to enter into the contract wasnt influenced by the statements in the 
brochure about the safety kit and the carpet mats. So, having considered everything here, I 
havent changed my view about how this complaint should be resolved. 
I do not require Hitachi to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Hitachi Capital (UK) plc 
trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman