DRN-3585347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy because The Co-operative Bank Plc did not fully refund the 
money they lost in a vehicle scam.
Mr and Mrs M are represented by their daughter in bringing this complaint. But for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mr and 
Mrs M themselves.
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in July 2021, Mr and Mrs M made a payment 
transfer of £5,500 for what they believed was the purchase and delivery of a caravan. 
Unfortunately the individual theyd been communicating with was actually a fraudster.
Mr and Mrs M had seen a caravan they liked on a social media sales platform. Theyve 
acknowledged the caravan was very reasonably priced, so contacted the seller for more 
information. The seller advised the price reflected that the caravan had been repossessed 
and bought at auction. The seller also advised that due to Covid and their remote location, 
they had instructed a delivery company to deliver the caravan on their behalf to a buyer. The 
seller provided identification to prove who they were and also details of the delivery company 
(which was a real delivery firm that the fraudsters had spoofed).
When contacting the spoofed delivery firm, Mr and Mrs M were required to also provide their 
own identification and create a login on the companys website. The firm told Mr and Mrs M 
that once delivery had been completed, they had a 14-day inspection period to decline the 
caravan and receive a full refund. Mr and Mrs M asked if they could pay by PayPal, but were 
advised by the firm that as they were solely a holding account for the inspection period, 
payments had to be made by transfer. Mr and Mrs M received purchase contracts, packing 
slips, receipts and invoices on headed paper. Theyve advised they couldnt find any reviews 
online for the company, but completed a HPI check on the caravan which reassured them it 
had no outstanding finance and that there were no other concerns with the vehicle. On this 
basis they agreed to the sale and sent the £5,500 as requested.
During the payment process The Co-operative has said it provided Mr and Mrs M with a 
purchase warning that stated:
Have you checked that the product you are buying is real and the person or company is 
genuine? 
How to stay safe
Pay directly on a trusted website with your credit or debit card where you can, 
instead of a bank transfer like this payment.
Check for negative online reviews of the company or person you are buying from. 
They could be a warning sign.
When entering the account details for the delivery company, Mr and Mrs M also received a 
notification that stated:
The name doesnt match the account number
Check that you have the right details
You might not get your money back if its sent to the wrong account.
Mr and Mrs M have explained they assumed this was due to the business name being 
slightly different on the account, which theyre aware can happen. They advised they 
checked the details were correct again against the invoice - and then proceeded to pay.
When the caravan failed to be delivered as agreed, Mr and Mrs M realised theyd been the 
victim of a scam and contacted The Co-operative to make a claim.
The Co-operative is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. The Co-operative says 
one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
The Co-operative considers Mr and Mrs M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing they 
were making a legitimate purchase. It said Mr and Mrs M shouldve completed more checks 
to confirm the legitimacy of who they were paying. The Co-operative also considers it 
provided a warning specific to purchase scams during the payment journey. However, The 
Co-operative did acknowledge it could also have done more to protect Mr and Mrs M when 
making the payment, so provided a 50% refund for the funds lost to the scam. The Co-
operative also awarded £200 compensation to apologise for the service Mr and Mrs M 
received during the investigation of the claim.
Mr and Mrs M feel they should be refunded in full and so have referred their complaint to us. 
An investigator looked into the complaint and thought it ought to be upheld, with The Co-
operative providing a full refund. As The Co-operative didnt provide confirmation of whether 
they agreed with the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, The Co-operative should have fully refunded the 
money Mr and Mrs M lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances The Co-operative should fairly and reasonably refund the 
money Mr and Mrs M lost.
As money was loaned to Mr and Mrs M by family for the caravan, rather than being a 
loss incurred from their own account, I think The Co-operative should pay interest at 
the account rate, from the date Mr and Mrs M made the payment, until the date of 
settlement.
I have carefully considered The Co-operatives representations about whether Mr and Mrs M 
had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade 
me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M failed to take the requisite level of care required for The Co-operative to choose not to reimburse 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
I accept this complaint is finely balanced, but taking everything into consideration in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint, including the characteristics of the customers and 
the complexity of the scam, I dont consider that The Co-operative has shown that Mr and 
Mrs M lacked a reasonable basis of belief when making the payment. I accept that the cost 
of the caravan was notably below the average cost for this make and model, but Ive also 
considered that Mr and Mrs M did question this  and received, what I consider, to be a 
plausible reason for the reduced price. 
I also accept that there were more checks Mr and Mrs M couldve done  while Mr and Mrs 
M advised our service that they checked the delivery firm on Companies House and saw it 
was a legitimate, established firm, this wasnt mentioned initially to The Co-Operative when 
questioned. I think its possible this check wasnt conducted until after the scam was 
uncovered, but even if this was the case, failure to undertake validating actions should not in 
itself lead to a decision not to reimburse  its important a firm views a customers actions in 
context of the overall circumstances. Had Mr and Mrs M conducted more checks on the 
delivery firm, I dont think they wouldve been concerned. The company was a legitimate firm 
and the fraudsters had spoofed details such as the address from Companies House, so 
even if Mr and Mrs M had checked, I dont think this wouldve raised red flags with Mr and 
Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M were provided with a lot of persuasive information to convince them in the first 
instance that they were communicating with a genuine company  the paperwork was very 
credible, the checks they did conduct identified no concerns and the creation of login details 
and provision of the scammers identification all added to its legitimacy. In any event, when 
faced with potential red flags such as requesting to pay by other means, Mr and Mrs M did 
question this and received answers that I think were fair for a person acting reasonably to 
accept as true.
The Co-operative has said it provided a warning during the payment journey and has 
questioned why Mr and Mrs M proceeded. However, I dont think theres any specific part of 
this warning that Mr and Mrs M failed to heed  they believed they had checked the 
legitimacy of the caravan by conducting a HPI check, had attempted to check the business 
in questions reviews online and found nothing untoward, and had asked to pay by PayPal 
and been given a valid reason why this wasnt possible. Considering the confirmation of 
payee message provided to Mr and Mrs M, I also dont think this highlighted that Mr and Mrs 
M were at risk of falling victim to a scam, it only raised that Mr and Mrs M may have the 
wrong account details. I therefore think the steps Mr and Mrs M took to double check the 
account details were reasonable, given the warning they were presented with.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that The Co-operative has shown that Mr and Mrs M 
lacked a reasonable basis of belief for making the transaction in question. The Co-operative 
should therefore refund the funds Mr and Mrs M lost to the fraudster.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint 
against The Co-operative Bank Plc. I require The Co-operative Bank Plc to:
Refund Mr and Mrs M the remaining £2,750 they lost to the scam
Pay account interest, from the date Mr and Mrs M made the payment to the 
fraudster, to the date of settlementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman