DRN-3211743
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) will not allow him to take a new 
interest rate deal on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr W has a residential mortgage with BOI. 
In July 2018, he asked BOI for consent to let his property and completed an application. On 
the application form for consent Mr W said he was away from home frequently and, due to 
personal circumstances, when not travelling he wanted to live elsewhere with family 
temporarily. The application indicated that at the time he thought hed require consent for 
one to two years.
The application form set out the conditions under which BOI would grant consent. It 
explained;
If you wish to change your mortgage product during the period of letting, we will only agree 
to do this if the mortgage is switched to a Buy to Let product.
BOI granted Mr W permission to let his property and wrote to Mr W confirming this. The 
letter reiterated for the duration of the letting period, rate switches and further advances will 
not be allowed on any part of your mortgage.
The interest rate deal on part of Mr Ws mortgage was due to expire in December 2018. 
Mr W contacted BOI and asked for a new interest rate product. BOI initially declined this 
request  in line with the conditions it had outlined when granting consent to let. Mr W 
complained. BOI said, after reviewing Mr Ws circumstances, it would agree a new interest 
rate as an exception to its usual policy.
A new two-year fixed interest rate was then put in place.
At the end of 2020 Mr W contacted BOI again to request a new interest rate product. BOI 
said it would not agree to one.
Mr W complained again to BOI. He was unhappy as the rent he was receiving for the 
property was less than the mortgage payments would be when the mortgage reverted to 
BOIs standard variable rate. And as BOI had previously allowed a new rate, he felt it should 
do so again.
BOI said it had been clear when consent to let was granted that it would not allow new 
interest rate deals while that was in place. It had agreed one previously as an exception. But 
it felt it had been made clear to Mr W at that time that no further exceptions would be made. 
So, it said it didnt think it had acted unfairly and if Mr W wanted a new interest rate product 
he could either return to the property, reverting the mortgage to its intended purpose, or 
apply for a buy-to-let mortgage.
I understand it has since come to light that Mr W does not meet BOIs eligibility criteria for a 
buy-to-let mortgage.
Unhappy with BOIs response Mr W asked our service to consider his complaint. He said he 
didnt want to return to the property for personal reasons and was incurring a loss each 
month because a new rate hadnt been agreed. And he said if he sold the property, hed 
incur a significant loss. So, he didnt feel BOI had acted fairly.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think BOI had done anything 
wrong by declining to put in place a further fixed rate as it had acted in line with its lending 
policy  which it had made Mr W aware of before consent to let was agreed. She was also 
satisfied it had followed its lending policy when declining the request to switch to buy-to-let.
Mr W still felt BOI had not acted fairly and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has a residential mortgage with BOI  the basis of which being that the property used 
as security for the mortgage was Mr Ws main residence. Due to personal circumstances, 
Mr Ws situation changed and he was no longer living at the property. So, the usage of the 
property changed.
BOI granted permission for the property to be let, allowing Mr W to rent the property out as a 
concession, while the mortgage remained on a residential basis. BOI was not obliged to 
provide permission for this. 
When BOI granted consent to let it was clear with Mr W that one of its conditions for doing 
so was that, while the property was let, it wouldnt allow further borrowing or product 
changes on the mortgage. BOI is entitled to decide its lending policies and the conditions 
around concessions it grants. These are a matter for its commercial judgement based on its 
attitude to risk. And the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator  so I cant require 
BOI to change its policies. Im satisfied from the information Ive been provided that this is 
BOIs standard policy in regard to permission to let. And Mr W has been treated in line with 
other customers in a similar position.
This condition was explained on the application form Mr W signed at the time he asked for 
consent to let and in writing after consent was granted. So, Im satisfied that BOI made this 
condition clear to Mr W. And Im satisfied, from the mortgage offers Ive been provided, BOI 
has been clear about the interest rate products Mr W has held over the years, and when 
these were due to end.
Mr W is unhappy that BOI will not now agree a new interest rate product  outside of its 
standard policy in relation to consent to let. But I dont think BOI has acted unreasonably by 
declining to do so.
BOI was clear about this condition before granting consent to let. I understand why Mr W 
would like a new residential interest rate product. But the property is being let. I know Mr W 
has said he does not wish to return to the property at this time for personal reasons. But BOI 
has different lending criteria and risk appetites for let properties as compared to residential 
ones  as is standard industry practice. Which is why it offers different products for each 
scenario with different features  not least different interest rates. If I required BOI to simply 
allow Mr W to take a new interest rate product, outside of its stated conditions, that would effectively allow Mr W to maintain all of the benefits of a residential mortgage, including the 
available interest rates, while letting the property. Which I dont think is fair. And so, I dont 
think itd be fair to require BOI to set aside its policy here. 
I understand BOI did, as an exception in response to a previous complaint, allow Mr W to 
take a new interest rate product in December 2018. And I understand Mr Ws frustration that 
it is unwilling to make a similar exception again. But I dont think allowing that exception 
previously means that BOI are required to do so again now. And, having listened to the call 
Mr W had with an adviser in 2018, in which the new interest rate was discussed, Im satisfied 
it was made clear that when the product agreed in that call ended, a further exception would 
not be guaranteed. And, if the property was still let and Mr W wanted a new rate, it would be 
necessary to consider switching to a buy-to-let mortgage.
So, I dont think BOI has acted unreasonably by declining Mr Ws request for a new interest 
rate here.
I understand Mr W does not meet BOIs lending criteria for a buy-to-let mortgage. 
Specifically, its eligibility criteria that he must live in a home that he owns  as he is living in 
rented accommodation. But again, the lending criteria BOI sets around buy-to-let mortgages 
are a matter of its commercial judgement. And I dont think there are any grounds on which I 
can reasonably require it to set these criteria aside here. 
Mr W has said that if he sold the property now, hed incur a loss. But BOI is not demanding 
repayment of the mortgage in full. And while Mr W may not meet BOIs criteria for an 
alternative mortgage, he can apply for an alternative mortgage with another lender. And, as 
his interest rate product has ended, it would appear there would be no penalties for repaying 
his BOI mortgage.
Mr W has said that his mortgage payments currently exceed the rent he is able to obtain for 
his property, and that he is having to make up the difference each month at a significant 
cost. Mr W is ultimately responsible for the mortgage repayments, regardless of rental 
income. And again, I dont think these are grounds for me to fairly say that BOI is acting 
unreasonably by not setting aside its consent to let conditions. But, if Mr W is experiencing 
financial difficulties, Id expect BOI to look at what it could potentially do to assist. For it to 
consider this, Mr W would need to approach and engage with BOI - which would likely 
involve Mr W having to discuss his circumstances including his income and expenditure 
details, in order for it to assess what it could do to help. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Ben StokerOmbudsman