DRN-4276488
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) flagged and reviewed a payment she 
was trying to make and is unhappy at the questions Santander asked her regarding the 
payment. She wants Santander to justify its decision to block and delay this payment both 
ethically and legally. Mrs M is also unhappy at the service she received from Santander 
regarding this.
What happened
Mrs M attempted to make a payment of £10 on 26 July from her account with Santander to 
an account in foreign country. The transaction was flagged up by Santanders internal 
systems as being suspicious activity and reviewed on the basis of its sanction policy 
regarding the country the payment was being sent to. 
Mrs Ms transaction history shows that the payment was processed on 27 July but it was not 
released due to the further checks required.
Santanders internal records show that it left a voicemail for Mrs M on 29 July regarding 
further checks needed for the payment and made a note on its systems about this. 
Santanders notes record that it needed Mrs M to answer what the purpose of the payment 
was for and did the payment involve any third parties.
Mrs M says she complained to Santander on 9 August that her payment shouldnt have been 
delayed by the review process. Mrs M says despite chasing Santander up about this she did 
not receive a response. Mrs M says she was phoned on two occasions where she was 
asked invasive questions such as how she knew the organisation and what her involvement 
was with them. 
Santanders records show that its internal checks were completed on 12 September, and 
this is when the payment was cleared. Santander says that any further delays were likely 
due to the intermediary or receiving bank.
Mrs M called Santander on 3 November chasing a response to her complaint and again 
complained that the payment is still going through additional checks after eight weeks as the 
transaction was so small. 
Santander internal notes record that on 11 November it confirmed to Mrs M that the payment 
was cleared by it on 12 September but that it may be held up by the middle or receiving 
bank. Santander provided Mrs M with a payment reference that she could use to chase this 
up with the receiving bank but said no errors had been identified on its behalf.
Mrs M was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ms concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander had followed the correct steps when trying to obtain answers from Mrs M about 
the payment and that although there were some initial delays in the checks and payment 
being made this was due to the time it took to get the answers Santander needed from Mrs 
M. 
Furthermore, they didnt think there was anything inappropriate about the questions 
Santander asked about the payment. Our adjudicator agreed that the complaints process 
shouldve been a lot smoother for Mrs M but didnt think she has been significantly impacted 
by what had happened.
Mrs M disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 12 June 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions 
before I reached a final decision and neither Santander or Mrs M have added any new 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Having considered everything provided, Im currently minded to uphold Mrs Ms complaint 
regarding the service element she received when trying to find out what was happening with 
her payment.  However, I dont agree that Santander did anything wrong in flagging the 
transaction for review and putting a hold on it until it was satisfied it was legitimate. 
It might be worth setting out here that we are not the regulator, we provide an informal 
dispute resolution service looking at whats fair and reasonable in each individual complaint. 
We dont have any regulatory or disciplinary powers and therefore I cannot change the 
banks systems or processes  such as when payment requests require checks and the 
process involved in that. 
All I can do is decide whether Santander has done anything wrong and if it has, I would seek 
 if possible - to put Mrs M back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt 
happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Santander flagged a payment which it deemed was at risk and followed its processes to 
determine the legitimacy of the payment. In order to establish this it needed Mrs M to answer 
some questions and left a voicemail with Mrs M within three working days  which given the 
relatively low value of the payment of £10 - I think is a reasonable time scale and I dont 
think Santander did anything wrong here.
What is not clear from the evidence provided is when Mrs M got in touch with Santander 
about this and answered the questions it had about the transaction. But as the payment 
cleared on 12 September, I think it is likely Mrs M provided the information before this point. 
So I cant say the delay in making the payment between 26 July and 12 September was due 
to the time Mrs M took to provide the information or on Santanders part alone.
But what is clear is that after listening to a call recording between Mrs M and Santander on 3 
October is that Mrs M still wasnt sure whether her payment had been cleared and was 
concerned about making another payment to the same recipient because of this. And by 3 
November when she chased Santander again, she still didnt know what was happening. So I think this is a failing on Santanders part and think Mrs M should be compensated for 
that. So although the transaction Mrs M wished to make has been made, I currently think 
Santander should compensate Mrs M £30 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Santanders inadequate communication surrounding this.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint and direct Santander to pay Mrs M £30.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to 
pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman