DRN-4332305
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc failed to comply with his General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) request by sending him copies of communications in small print. 
What happened
Separate complaints have been raised for Mr C concerning the closure of his bank account 
by Barclays, and its subsequent communications. 
In response to Mr Cs formal GDPR request, Barclays said it would provide him with a copy 
of every complaint and other letter since September 2021 in large print. Mr C thinks theres 
still letters Barclays havent sent, including one of 30 May 2022. He has formally requested 
Barclays provide all correspondence from account opening in March 2021, to closure. 
Mr C said Barclays is aware he has a visual impairment, and has repeatedly breached the 
Equality Act with its responses over the months to his GDPR requests. Barclays said its 
response to Mr Cs latest request, was to send all information in larger print. This still wasnt 
acceptable to Mr C, but Barclays said it was the largest it could make the font. Mr C 
complained to Barclays about the repeated distress and inconvenience caused. 
Barclays said its latest response to Mr Cs request was on A3 paper as the only format it can 
provide the documents in, whereas it can produce original letters in large print. To help Mr C 
it offered to send the information digitally, but Mr C declined as his preference was paper.
Barclays provided the call recordings it had located for Mr C on a USB stick, and said it 
would send transcripts. Mr C said the USB stick doesnt work, and the transcripts havent 
been provided. Barclays said it had fulfilled its obligations under GDPR to provide Mr C with 
a copy of his personal data, and also made reasonable adjustments, albeit only on the final 
information it sent to him. But in recognition of the upset and frustration its errors had 
caused, Barclays offered Mr C £1,000 compensation, which he declined as inadequate.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator said there were three occasions 
that Barclays sent GDPR information in the wrong format, but she wouldnt make separate 
awards for each event. She said Mr C said he was caused distress for the last 27 months, 
but Barclays records show he wasnt aware that his letters werent in large print until he 
complained about not receiving the notice of account closure letter in the correct format.
The investigator said Barclays can produce letters in large print at source, but this marker 
hadnt been placed on Mr Cs account prior to his complaint. She said this meant any letters 
could only be enlarged manually, but this didnt work for Mr C as the font wasnt large 
enough. She said Barclays offered an electronic solution, but Mr Cs preference was paper 
format which hes entitled to as it is more suitable to his needs as a vulnerable consumer.
The investigator said Barclays would need to address any loss to Mr C as a result of missing 
any important information, but none was evident. She said Mr C called Barclays repeatedly 
to chase information, and promises of call backs and correspondence in large print were 
broken. She thought Mr Cs stress about information incorrectly formatted and not knowing 
what he hadnt seen, and delays meant that Barclays should pay him £1,500 compensation. 
She said this reflected the substantial distress, upset and worry hes been caused. 
Mr C disagreed that the compensation was adequate saying Barclays were in breach of the 
Equality Act since his account opened over two years ago, not just from August 2022. He 
sent details of a court case which he said involved less severe circumstances than his own 
and said he wouldnt settle for less than £3,000 compensation. Mr C said he also requires all 
outstanding documents to be sent in large print and will pursue legal action if this doesnt 
happen. Mr Cs complaint has been referred to me as an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Separate complaints have been raised for Mr C concerning Barclays letter about the closure 
of his account not being sent to him in large print. And the closure of his bank account and 
subsequent communications from Barclays. 
Mr C said the issue of Barclays sending him incomplete and inadequately formatted 
information has been ongoing since he opened his account. He said a pack of information 
from his local Barclays branch went missing from July 2022. However, theres no record of 
this having been raised with Barclays before 9 August 2022. So, I will be considering the 
delays in providing this information from August 2022 to Barclays latest response to him. Mr 
C said he still hasnt received a letter of 30 May 2022 in large print or any offer of 
compensation for this. From what Ive seen this letter concerns a separate account and isnt 
the subject of a complaint that I have considered. 
Mr C needed the information he requested from Barclays as he was concerned Barclays 
hadnt been sending out all his correspondence in large print and letters and he might have 
missed something with a financial impact. I havent repeated here the explanation provided 
by Barclays for the limitations it faced in meeting Mr Cs requests, but I can see that it faced 
difficulties in meeting Mr Cs requests through its systems.
Notwithstanding these difficulties, Barclays repeatedly failed to make reasonable 
adjustments in accordance with Mr Cs requests, or attempt to overcome the limitations of its 
systems. Only in response to Mr Cs latter GDPR request did Barclays respond to him in a 
larger font. Unfortunately Mr C said this was still unacceptable, but Barclays also offered the 
option of sending the subject access request information digitally, which would allow Mr C to 
zoom in on the text. This wasnt Mr Cs preferred option as he wanted paper copies, and he 
was experiencing difficulties viewing information on his laptop, but I think at this stage 
Barclays was trying to make reasonable adjustments.
From reviewing the information Barclays sent Mr C there isnt anything in the letters that I 
have seen that would raise any financial concerns for him in the future. Should this change, 
as Mr C fears, then it is open to him to bring a further complaint about this.
From Mr Cs description of the stress and health problems he has faced, I think the impact 
has been greater than normal because hes in a vulnerable position. The delays have been 
over a significant period of time, and every time the information was sent to him incorrectly, 
or not sent at all, it led to Mr C having to make further calls to chase up Barclays. This 
caused him further inconvenience with the time spent on calls, which has exacerbated his 
anxiety and stress levels over the period. Mr C sent details of a case about a blind litigant who took legal action against a government 
department about letters sent in the format required, and who was awarded £7,000 
damages. Ive looked at this case where letters required in braille werent provided. As the 
investigator has said, we can only look at the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint and the 
personal impact on him of the banks failure to communicate as required. We dont award 
damages as a this is the realm of the court, but we consider compensation that we feel is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint.
Putting things right
Having considered the overall impact on Mr C of Barclays poor response to his requests for 
information, the lack of reasonable adjustment and delays, I agree with the investigator that 
an award of £1,500 compensation is a fair and reasonable reflection of the impact this has 
had upon Mr C. Should Mr C wish to reject this decision all other options remain open to 
him, including legal action.
I trust that Barclays will respond very soon to Mr Cs request for all of its correspondence to 
be provided in large print, and this should include the letter to Mr C of 30 May 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr C £1,500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman