DRN-3027960
The complaint
Mr D complains about the amount that hes been charged by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, for damage to a car that he 
returned when he ended his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr D under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that he signed in September 2017. He ended the agreement early and the car was 
collected from him in December 2020 by a third party on behalf of Mercedes-Benz Finance. 
The third party inspected the car and completed a vehicle condition report. The report said 
that a second inspection was required but identified that the parcel shelf was missing  
which was accepted by Mr D  and a charge of £283.50 was recommended.
The car was inspected again twelve days later and further damage was identified and a total 
charge of £974.19 was recommended. Mercedes-Benz Finance charged that amount to 
Mr D but he complained to it about the charges and said that hed had the car valeted and 
two new tyres fitted. It said that it had reviewed the images contained in the second 
inspection report and that the damage was evident and out of its vehicle return standards 
and the parcel shelf was missing. Mr D wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
second inspection report identified chargeable damage to the car and that it was likely that it 
occurred during Mr Ds ownership of the car. She said that second reports are a normal 
process and wouldnt be asking Mercedes-Benz Finance to do anything more.
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the front 
right tyre cant have been the only one of the four wheels to be different in make or model as 
he had both front tyres replaced the day before the first inspection so all four tyres were 
correct. He also says that he disputes the damage to the wheel rims as he had the car fully 
detailed at his own expense and there was no visible damage left on any of the rims. He 
says that any damage found can only have been fair wear and tear or was caused after the 
car was collected from him. He says that hell try to locate invoices for the work carried out 
but he hasnt provided them to this service.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr D signed the hire purchase agreement which said: At the end of the hire period, 
you must return the car to us in accordance with the terms and conditions of this 
agreement and the agreement included the vehicle return standards;
the vehicle return standards say: When it is time to return your vehicle  you must 
return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards  When the vehicle is 
returned to us a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by trained 
technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. The vehicle must be: free from  any 
broken or damaged items ; free from any defects or condition that would be in 
breach of statutory requirements; free from accident damage; and in good, clean and 
marketable condition  the standards then explain what would be acceptable and 
unacceptable;
the car was collected from Mr D in December 2020 by a third party on behalf of 
Mercedes-Benz Finance and a vehicle condition report was completed  its clear 
from the photos included with the report that it was raining at the time of the 
inspection and the report said that a second inspection was required  the report 
identified that the parcel shelf was missing  which was accepted by Mr D  and a 
charge of £283.50 was recommended;
a second inspection took place twelve days later at the third partys inspection 
compound and refurbishment centre - as well as the missing parcel, the following 
issues were identified: the left rear wheel had spoke damage, the right rear tyre 
should be a run flat tyre, the front bumper was scratched, the front bumper 
mouldings werent secure and the right front door was dented  and a total charge of 
£974.19 was recommended;
the report includes photos and a video of the car which show the damage and I 
consider that the damage to the left rear wheel, front bumper and right front door was 
unacceptable damage under the vehicle return standards and was more than would 
reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear;
the first report recorded the cars mileage as 24,573 and the second report recorded 
it as 24,710  so the car had been driven for 137 miles since it was collected from 
Mr D;
Mr D says that he had the car fully detailed at his own expense and there was no 
visible damage left on any of the rims  but he hasnt provided the invoice for that 
work or any other evidence to show that there was no damage to the left rear wheel 
when the car was collected from him;
I dont consider it to be likely that the damage was caused between the two 
inspections and I consider it to be more likely than not that the damage was caused 
during the time that Mr D had the car and drove 24,573 miles in it;
the vehicle return standards say that the tyres:  must conform to the original 
specification of the vehicle. It must have matching tyres (of a size and premium 
brand, approved by the manufacturer) on each axle;
the second inspection report identified the brand of the rear tyres which were 
acceptable under the vehicle return standards but said that the front tyres were a 
different make and that the right front tyre needed to be replaced because it should 
have been a run flat tyre;
the photo of the right front tyre clearly shows the brand of that tyre and I dont 
consider that the brand would be reasonably recognised as a premium brand and 
Ive seen no evidence to show that it was a run flat tyre;
Im unable to identify the brand of the left front tyre from the photos in the reports but 
the second report didnt recommend a charge for that tyre  Im not persuaded that 
Mr D has provided enough evidence to show that the charge for replacing the right 
front tyre is unfair or unreasonable;I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance acted incorrectly when it relied on the 
second inspection report or that the charges that were recommended in that report 
are unfair or unreasonable; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to reduce or waive the charges that its made to Mr D, to 
pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don t uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman