DRN-3540164
The complaint
Mr F complained that his home insurance policy was mis-sold to him by his broker, Clear 
Insurance Management Ltd (CIM).
What happened
Following difficulties getting a claim for water damage retrospectively approved by his 
insurer, Mr F raised a complaint with his broker, CIM, as he felt it had mis-sold the policy to 
him.
Mr F said CIM had informed him that the insurer was one organisation, but during the claims 
process Mr F discovered the insurer was in fact a different organisation.
Mr F said he was informed by his broker that it had delegated authority to settle claims on 
behalf of the insurer and he said this was one of the main reasons he selected the policy. 
However, during his latest claim, he said it tuned out CIM didnt have delegated authority.
Mr F said he was written to by CIM in July in relation to his concerns and was given a 
positive response, but when he received CIMs final response it ignored the two issues 
raised above and only focused on the declined claim.
CIM said in its final response regarding the choice of policy, I have investigated the placing 
of your risk. Cover was placed under a specially negotiated scheme for our high net worth 
clients and was renewed, on your instructions, for a few years. At no time did you advise us 
that the cover was not suitable for your needs. Your claim for water ingress has been paid in 
part, and has only partially failed due to the fact that neither party, you or the insurer, can 
establish the original cause of the damage. Accordingly, the policy cover is suitable in this 
instance. Mr F did finally get agreement from his insurer to pay the claim.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think CIM had mis-
sold the policy. She thought the renewal documents clearly stated who the insurer 
underwriting the policy was and although CIM said it had delegated authority, she didnt think 
it was unreasonable that it referred back to the insurer to get their input on a particular point 
on a policy exclusion. Mr F disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have first considered how well-informed Mr F was about which insurer was underwriting his 
policy.
I have checked the documents that CIM sent to Mr F when he was renewing his insurance 
cover. I can see the documents are branded by the company Mr F thought were the 
underwriter of the policy, but I can also see in the smaller print within the document it does 
set out who the underwriter of the policy is. The company Mr F thought were his insurer were 
in fact the administrator of the policy. I dont think the information within these documents 
has misled Mr F in anyway. This is typically how insurance policies within the industry are 
set out.
I have read an introductory note CIM sent Mr F on 8 January 2021. I can appreciate how Mr 
F may have misunderstood or misinterpreted what was stated. However, I dont think this 
was intentional by CIM and I think its note sets out the administrator and insurer as two 
different roles. I think this couldve been presented a little clearer for Mr F. However, I 
havent seen evidence that the policy was mis-sold, such that Mr F was informed a different 
insurer would be underwriting the policy than the one who was. Therefore, I dont uphold this 
aspect of the complaint.
Secondly, I have looked at the issue around delegated authority. In the same introductory 
note, I mentioned above, I see CIM said I can confirm that as a broker we are able to deal 
with all claims up to £20,000 in house. I think the fact that CIM mentioned this detail 
specifically on the introductory note, along with a few other key points demonstrates this was 
a key factor in Mr F choosing to use CIM and its selected insurer. I think it demonstrates CIM 
and Mr F had probably had conversations about the importance of this arrangement in his 
decision to select the policy.
However, in Mr Fs claim, CIM were unsure how to proceed with the claim so sought opinion 
from the insurer who ultimately pays out on any claim. I have considered whether this is 
unreasonable to do given that CIM had told Mr F it had delegated authority. I dont think it is. 
Whilst CIM had delegated authority to decide, I think the circumstances of the claim were 
unusual  Mr F had commenced remedial works before the cause of the damage had been 
validated. CIM couldve reasonably declined the claim, as it hadnt had opportunity to fully 
validate the claim (whilst the damage was evident). Given the unusual circumstances, it 
decided to seek advice from the lead authority  the insurer. I dont think this is 
unreasonable and ultimately, this led to the claim been paid. I think its likely for straight 
forward claims, CIM would make a call on the claim  but in these circumstances, I think it 
was reasonable for it to follow the approach it did. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Clear Insurance 
Management Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman