DRN-3594935
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain AXA Insurance UK Plc caused delays and provided poor service 
following a claim on their commercial insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T own a commercial property which they let to a retailer. In April 2021, a car 
drove into the front of the property. Mr and Mrs T made a claim for the damage. AXA 
appointed a third-party to handle the claim, who visited the property a few days later. 
To summarise, Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with the delays and service that followed. They 
say the claim took ten months to complete, and during that time their tenant was unable to 
trade. They say they were forced to give their tenant a £2,500 rent reduction.
AXA accepted it had caused delays and it paid Mr and Mrs T £375 compensation. However, 
in respect of the £2,500, AXA noted there was no loss of rent cover on their policy.
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to our service. One of our investigators thought the 
compensation should be increased from £375 to £575. AXA accepted our investigators 
recommendation. Because Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy, their complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T made the claim on 23 April 2021, and AXA authorised one of their quotes for 
the permanent repairs on 17 September 2021. Whilst I accept the works may have taken 
time to complete, AXA can only reasonably be held responsible for the five-month period 
between April and September. Furthermore, AXA authorised temporary repairs on 
26 August 2021, so the tenant could continue trading. 
Nonetheless, Ive seen there were several issues with the handling of the claim, including an 
inappropriate repair scope by AXAs appointed third-party, general delays, and Mr T having 
to do lots of chasing. AXAs file also confirms its frustration with its appointment third-party, 
which it removed from the claim in September 2021.
Its not disputed the claim wasnt handled as well as it should have been. So, what I need to 
decide here, is what fair compensation is. As explained above, the period in question is five 
months. However, scoping the repair and authorising repair costs would have always taken 
some time. So, overall, I consider it reasonable to hold AXA responsible for three to four 
months of avoidable delay.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs T offered their tenant a rent reduction. However, I havent 
seen that was something they had to do, and I consider it likely they could have explored 
temporary repairs sooner as an alternative. I also note loss of rent cover was available 
under the policy, but this option wasnt taken out. So, overall, Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably direct AXA to reimburse Mr and Mrs Ts £2,500. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, but for the service issues and delays Ive described, 
£575 compensation is in-line with our approach. I havent seen any circumstances that 
would lead me to increase the award further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs T a further £200 
compensation (so, £575 should be paid in total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman