DRN-1512703
The complaint
Mr B complains about the valuation that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd 
placed on his car under his motor insurance policy when it was declared beyond economical 
repair. Hes also unhappy that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car and that he had to pay 
his remaining premium. 
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident. Berkshire Hathaway sent an assessor to inspect his 
car and he declared it to be a total loss with a market value of £3,690, less the policy excess. 
But Mr B thought this was unfair as hed insured the car five days earlier with a stated value 
of £5,850. He said hed seen similar cars offered for sale at higher prices than Berkshire 
Hathaways offer. He was unhappy that it didnt provide him with a courtesy car following the 
accident. And he was also unhappy that he was asked to pay the premium for the rest of the 
year. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Berkshire Hathaways settlement offer was fair and reasonable as it had been made 
correctly according to our approach. She thought Mr B wasnt entitled by the policy terms 
and conditions to a courtesy car in the case of total loss. And she thought Berkshire 
Hathaway was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to ask for payment of the 
remaining premium. 
Mr B replied that he couldnt buy a replacement car for Berkshire Hathaways settlement 
offer. He said Berkshire Hathaways engineer had offered him £4,000 in settlement of his 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr B said the cars value on his policy was £5,850. Berkshire Hathaway said this was an 
estimate for cars of average mileage. 
Ive seen agreed value policies where an insurer and a consumer agree a cars value. But 
Mr Bs policy doesnt provide this. His provides the market value in the case of total loss. So 
I dont think the value stated on the policy is relevant. 
Our investigator thought Berkshire Hathaways valuation of the cars market value was fair 
and reasonable. So Ive checked how she came to this conclusion. I can see that she 
checked the motor-trade guides we use for cars of the same make, model, age, condition 
and mileage as Mr Bs car at the date of its loss. I can see that she found that Berkshire 
Hathaways valuation was the highest provided by the motor-trade guides. I can see that the 
cars extras were considered but they didnt increase the valuation.
Mr B said hed seen adverts for similar cars for sale at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. Also, the advertised cars have lower mileage than Mr Bs. So I 
dont think this is a reason for Berkshire Hathaway to increase its valuation. 
So I agree that Berkshire Hathaways valuation was fair and reasonable as it was correctly 
made according to our approach. I dont require Berkshire Hathaway to increase this. 
Mr B said hed initially been offered £4,000 in settlement of his claim but this had then 
reduced to £3,000. He said the offer was made over the phone. Were an evidence-based 
service, and unfortunately Berkshire Hathaway havent been able to provide a copy of the 
relevant call. So I dont have evidence to say that it offered Mr B a higher amount and then 
withdrew it. 
Mr B said he wasnt provided with a courtesy car. Ive looked at his policy and I can see that, 
like many other policies Ive seen, hes only entitled to a courtesy car in the case of repairs. 
His car was deemed to be a total loss and so a courtesy car wasnt provided. So I cant say 
that this was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr B was unhappy that hed had to pay the remaining premium for the year. But I think the 
policy clearly explains that Mr B will owe the full annual premium if his claim for total loss is 
paid. I think thats fair and reasonable as Mr B made use of the policy and Berkshire 
Hathaway indemnified him for his losses. Mr B had the option of adding a replacement car to 
the policy within 28 days. But he didnt take this up.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman