DRN-4511000
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly 
required loan repayments on the wrong dates. P says this resulted in the bank putting its 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL) into default and registering Cifas and late payment markers 
against it. 
P is represented by one of its directors, who Ill call Mr A. 
What happened
HSBC said:
P took out a £50,000 BBL. The proceeds were paid into its HSBC business current 
account in early June 2020. The loan agreement said that no repayments were due 
for the first 12 months after the loan was drawn down.
On 2 June 2020, they placed a restriction on Ps current account as they were 
carrying out an internal review. The restriction meant that P couldnt access the BBL 
funds. It remained in place until November 2020. 
On 9 November, P transferred the BBL funds to an account with another bank. 
In April and May 2021, HSBC wrote to P to say that the first repayment on the loan 
would be due on 2 July 2021, 13 months after the funds were placed in Ps current 
account.
On 27 May 2021, P successfully applied for a six-month capital repayment holiday.
On 2 December 2021, they informed P that the repayment holiday was coming to an 
end, and the first BBL repayment would be due on 2 January 2022.
On 11 January 2022, they wrote to P to point out that the January repayment had 
been missed. 
On 15 January 2022, they issued a notice of default, because they became aware of 
a petition for Ps dissolution. They gave P until 4 February 2022 to sort out the issue. 
On 11 February 2022, they issued a final demand, because P hadnt had the Notice 
of Intended Dissolution withdrawn. 
In May 2022, they transferred the BBL to their Recoveries function. 
In August 2022, they put a Cifas marker on the national fraud database against 
Mr As name for evasion of payment. 
Mr A told us:
He hadnt had access to the BBL proceeds until 9 November 2020, so he considered 
this to be the drawdown date. 
The first repayment should therefore have been in November 2021, but he applied 
for a six month repayment holiday, making the first repayment due May 2021. 
He had written to the bank on at least six occasions and also had numerous 
telephone calls with them and raised complaints between December 2020 and 
February 2022 to try and resolve what he considered to be HSBCs error with the 
repayment dates.  
HSBCs Collections team had made calls to him, but couldnt arrange a direct debit 
for him to repay. 
In August 2022, the bank had told him they wouldnt accept any payments into any of 
Ps accounts, as they no longer wanted his banking. 
He had never tried to evade payment and remained willing to repay, although P was 
in trading difficulties. 
The problem at Companies House had been resolved and P was still trading. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She didnt think that the bank acted 
fairly as she considered that Mr A had made attempts to pay. She recommended that HSBC 
remove the Cifas marker, reconstruct the loan and pay £200 for the inconvenience caused to 
P. 
HSBC accepted the first part of our investigators recommendation and removed the Cifas 
marker. The remainder of the complaint was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 November 2023. I upheld one part of the complaint and 
provisionally concluded that the bank should remove any default markers on Ps credit 
record relating to missed repayments on the BBL before June 2022. I said, in summary:
In the particular circumstances that arose here, I didnt see how it could be fair to say 
P drew down the loan in June 2020 when P had no access to the money until 
November 2020.
In my view, the drawdown date should be the date P had access to the funds and the 
repayment date should therefore be calculated as 13 months after that date. 
Both sides agreed that P had successfully applied for a Pay As You Grow six month 
repayment holiday. I therefore thought that repayments on Ps BBL should only have 
fallen due starting from May 2022. 
It followed that I thought the letters regarding arrears in early 2022 were incorrect. 
And if the bank has put late payment markers on Ps record relating to payment 
arrears before June 2022, I thought those would also be incorrect. 
If the default notice and final demand issued in February 2022 had been issued due 
to the loan arrears, then I would be minded to ask the bank to reinstate the loan and 
withdraw the default. But there was a separate event of default.  
The default notice HSBC sent to P on15 January 2022 didnt mention loan arrears. Instead it said we understand theres a pending application to dissolve the 
company. Ive examined the Companies House record to check that this 
application existed. The record shows that a notice for compulsory strike off of P was 
made on 5 October 2021. There had also been an earlier application in 
January 2020. 
The BBL agreement gave a list of events of default, which included an act, whether 
by you or another person, which either amounts to. or could directly result in, a formal 
step being taken for the receivership, administration, bankruptcy, liquidation, 
dissolution or analogous proceedings of, or in respect of, you or, if you are part of a 
wider group, any member of your group. 
I thought the bank acted reasonably, and in accordance with the agreement, when 
they issued a notice of an event of default. This was independent of the issue of the 
repayment dates and the blocked account and I saw no reason to consider this 
action unfair.   
The bank then followed the terms of the BBL agreement when they wrote giving P 
until 4 February 2022 to rectify the strike-off notice. Because it hadnt been rectified 
by 4 February 2022, my thinking was that it was reasonable for HSBC then to 
proceed with a formal demand. 
My provisional conclusion was therefore that the bank did not make an error when it 
put the loan into default and transferred it to their Recoveries function. 
The record shows that the notice of intended dissolution was formally discontinued 
on 18 February 2022 so I agreed with Mr A that it was resolved in the end. But this 
didnt take away the banks rights to treat it as an event of default. 
Mr A had provided extensive evidence of emails he sent to the bank seeking 
repeatedly to clarify the repayment dates over a prolonged period. He has also 
provided recordings of some calls with the bank, which show him being passed 
between departments, with no-one able either to give him an answer to the 
repayment issue or to take any payment for the loans. On at least one occasion, in 
January 2022, he was told that the bank couldnt take any payments from him while 
there was a complaint outstanding. 
All this amounted in my view to very poor service on the part of the bank. On the one 
hand, they were demanding immediate repayment and on the other hand, making no 
attempt to facilitate this happening  and in fact, actively obstructing it. 
I didnt doubt that Mr A has been through a very distressing and exasperating time, 
which had been exacerbated by the banks poor service. But limited companies 
cannot be distressed and I have no power to make an award for distress suffered by 
directors. 
I was able to make awards for inconvenience suffered by limited companies, as 
suggested by our investigator. However, in this case, I wasnt persuaded that P was 
actively trading during this period. 
If P wasnt actually doing anything, then I didnt think it could have been 
inconvenienced. My current intention was therefore not to make an inconvenience 
award. But I explained I was happy to reconsider this if any evidence of 
inconvenience to P was provided. HSBC responded to say they agreed with my decision. Mr A didnt respond, except to 
confirm his understanding of the meaning of a provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new evidence or arguments from either party, I 
havent changed my provisional view. 
In my provisional decision, I invited Mr A to provide evidence of any inconvenience 
experienced by P as a result of the banks poor service and error regarding the repayment 
dates. No evidence has been provided, so I still dont intend to make any award for 
inconvenience, as Im not persuaded there was any. 
HSBC have accepted my conclusions in this case, which remain that the bank made an error 
regarding the drawdown date and therefore regarding the date repayments should begin. 
HSBCs service was also poor, when Mr A contacted them to sort things out. However, I 
consider they were entitled to declare an event of default due to the notice of Ps intended 
dissolution. And they were then entitled to issue a formal demand and take recovery action 
when P failed to rectify this notice. 
Putting things right
I understand that the bank has already removed the Cifas marker. HSBC should also 
remove any default markers on Ps credit record relating to missed repayments before 
June 2022. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to remove any default markers 
from Ps credit file that relate to the period before June 2022.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman