DRN-4293727
The complaint
Mr D complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) did not complete a 
satisfactory level of repairs after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Acromas are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the intermediary. As Acromas have accepted it is accountable for the actions 
of the intermediary, in my decision, any reference to Acromas includes the actions of the 
intermediary.
There are several parties and representatives of  Acromas involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Acromas.
What happened
Mr D made a claim on his motor insurance policy after an incident in which damage was 
caused to his car.
The claim was accepted, and Mr Ds car was taken in for repairs by Acromass approved 
supplier. 
When the car was returned Mr D was unhappy with the standard of work. He said the colour 
match of the front bumper was different to the original bumper. Mr D also said there was a 
lack of contact and communication from the supplier
Acromas accepted Mr D did not receive the call backs its claims customer care department  
supplier agreed he would get. And that there was a lack of communication from its suppliers. 
It apologised and paid £250 in recognition of this part of his complaint. However it concluded 
the colour match on the bumper was satisfactory. 
As Mr D was not happy with Acromas, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said they did not think 
it was reasonable for Acromas to say the bumper colour was satisfactory when it is not the 
colour it was before the repairs. They said Acromas should have rectified the colour once Mr 
D made his complaint.
As Acromas is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me 
for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the report completed by Acromass approved supplier. This report included 
images of Mr Ds car when it went in for inspection and before the damage was repaired. It 
also included images of the bodywork of the car after the repairs were completed. I did not 
see any evidence of a difference in colour between the bumper and the wing prior to the 
repairs.
I saw after Mr D complained about the repairs and colour match to his bumper that Acromas 
got an independent engineer to inspect the repairs. The report prepared from the inspection 
said there was a clear colour difference between the wing leading edges and the corners of 
the bumper which attach to the wings. The report also said the engineer had seen images 
that showed the original bumper colour to the wing edges to be a different shade. The view 
was the colour was no different or worse than the original bumper shade. It said if the 
supplier wished to blend the colour, it would be at their discretion.
Mr D did not wish for Acromass supplier to blend the colour on the wings to resolve the 
complaint. 
I saw that Acromas maintained its independent report supported its position about the colour 
of the bumper and said it would not consider this case further unless Mr D could provide new 
evidence.  
Although the independent engineers report said they had seen images that showed the 
original bumper colour to the wing edges to be a different shade, I have seen no evidence to 
support this statement. The images provided in Acromass suppliers initial report and are 
repeated in the independent report do not show any difference in colour prior to the repairs. 
And the images provided by Mr D also did not show any difference in colour prior to the 
damage being caused.
I saw in March 2023 Acromas paid £250 compensation for the lack of communication from 
itself and its suppliers. I saw evidence that Acromas did not call him back when it agreed to, 
and I think the amount paid is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
However, in this case it remains that the colour of the bumper on Mr Ds car is not the same 
as the colour it was originally and Acromas should rectify this. 
Therefore, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and require Acromas to change the colour of the 
bumper with an exact colour match to the rest of the car, as it was prior to the repairs. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Acromas Insurance Company Limited to change the colour of the bumper with an 
exact colour match to the rest of Mr Ds car, as it was prior to the repairs. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman