DRN-2011775
The complaint
Mr E complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020 that I summarise below.
Mr E was given 7 loans by MYJAR between June 2017 and July 2019. The loans were due 
to be repaid in instalments. I understand Mr E has repaid loans 1-6 but loan 7 is still 
outstanding. A summary of Mr E's borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount
1 14/06/2017 29/07/2017 £200.00
2 30/10/2017 11/11/2017 £700.00
3 11/03/2018 05/01/2019 £1,000.00
4 05/02/2019 03/05/2019 £825.00
5 15/06/2019 24/06/2019 £275.00
6 25/06/2019 26/07/2019 £475.00
7 31/07/2019 Outstanding £725.00
When Mr E complained to MYJAR about the loans it said that its lending from loan 4 
onwards may not have been appropriate and it offered to uphold his complaint about these 
loans. Mr E didnt accept this offer and brought his complaint to this service.
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be partly upheld. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
MYJAR needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. I explained that MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't 
lend irresponsibly. This means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable way. MYJAR's checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as the loan amount, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. But there was no set list of checks MYJAR had 
to do.
With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate in 
the early stages of the lending relationship.
I explained that from what Ive seen, I thought the checks MYJAR carried out before it 
agreed loans 1 to 3 were likely to have been reasonable and proportionate. Id not seen 
anything that I thought should reasonably have led MYJAR to carry out more in-depth 
checks before it gave Mr E the first three loans. I didnt think there was anything in the 
information gathered by the lender at the time which should reasonably have caused MYJAR 
any additional concerns about Mr Es financial position when he applied for the first three 
loans. Or that should have led it to reasonably conclude that these loan applications should 
be declined. 
Mr E thought that MYJAR should have carried out better checks and if it had done so, it 
would have discovered the extent of his financial problems at the time and it would have 
concluded that the loans were unaffordable for him. 
But I thought it was reasonable for MYJAR to make its early lending decisions based on the 
information Mr E had provided and what it found in its checks. Given what Mr E had told 
MYJAR about his circumstances, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate, (in this early 
stage of the lending relationship), for the lender to ask Mr E for the amount of information 
that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first three 
loans. I didnt think greater checks were appropriate at the time. Or that Mr Es lending had 
reached the point where I thought MYJAR ought to have been independently verifying the 
information he was providing about his finances by, for example, asking to see copies of his 
bank statements. So I didnt think that MYJAR would reasonably have been aware that Mr E 
might have difficulty repaying his loans in a sustainable manner.  I considered that Mr E repaid his first two loans ahead of schedule. But he took loan 3 about 
four months after paying off the second loan. I didnt think Mr Es borrowing and repayment 
behaviour at that point would reasonably have indicated to MYJAR that he was facing 
serious problems managing his money.
Mr E told us his financial situation was much worse, and that he was struggling with 
managing his money. But he didnt seem to have shared this with MYJAR at that time. And I 
didnt think that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have uncovered this issue. 
I am sorry that Mr E has had financial problems, but I didnt think MYJAR were wrong to 
provide him with the first three loans. So I did not intend upholding Mr Es complaint about 
them. 
But I didnt think MYJAR should have agreed to give Mr E loan 4 onwards without doing 
more in-depth checks and I thought by loan 6, Mr Es overall pattern of borrowing suggested 
hed become reliant on MYJARs lending. 
MYJAR had already recognised that there were indications that loans 4 onwards might not 
have been appropriate for Mr E, including his ongoing borrowing and repayment behaviour 
and his pattern of lending. As MYJAR had already offered to uphold Mr Es complaint about 
loans 4 onwards, I said I didnt need to consider these loans any further, apart from what 
needs to happen next.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. 
Mr E told us that his father paid off his second loan for him. He cant remember whether this 
was done through MYJARs website or whether he had a telephone conversation with the 
lender. He thinks his father would have asked MYJAR to block his account, and not lend any 
further because of his financial problems. Hes not 100% sure whether he did phone 
MYJAR. But he thinks that if his account was paid off by a card in someone elses name it 
should have alerted the lender to a problem. So he doesnt think MYJAR should have given 
him the third loan without carrying out more comprehensive checks.
MYJAR has now provided us with more information. It says that loan 2 was settled by card 
online and it has provided a screenshot of the transaction. The payment is referred to as 
Advance Card Repayment with an amount and partial card number given. The name of the 
card holder is not shown on the record of this transaction.
MYJARs records for the same day also show card details updated via WEB referring to a 
new card being added online. Again no name is given, but just a partial card number. 
MYJAR says it has no evidence of telephone contact around that time. It also says Mr E had 
not made MYJAR aware of the extent of his financial difficulties until he complained.I would like to thank both Mr E and MYJAR for their further comments which I have taken 
into account when coming to my final decision - along with all the other evidence and 
arguments presented in this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered what Mr E and MYJAR have said in response to my provisional 
decision. 
It seems that Mr Es second loan was paid off online. But I dont think the fact that a different 
card was used to make this transaction should reasonably have alerted MYJAR to the 
possibility that Mr E might be having difficulties managing his money. And I cant fairly say 
that the way loan 2 was repaid should reasonably have led MYJAR to block Mr Es account 
and refuse his applications for further loans at that point. 
Ive thought carefully about all of Mr Es and MYJARs comments but they have not changed 
my view of this complaint. 
So I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and I partly uphold the 
complaint:
I do not uphold Mr Es complaint about loans 1 to 3. 
There are indications why it might not have been appropriate for MYJAR to have 
approved loans 4 onwards. So I uphold Mr Es complaint about these loans. MYJAR 
should now put things right in relation to loans 4 to 7. 
Putting things right
I understand loan 7 remains outstanding. MYJAR should try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Mr E in respect of any outstanding balance  bearing in the 
mind the need to treat him with forbearance and due consideration in those discussions.
If MYJAR has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so, and then 
take the following steps. If MYJAR isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
MYJAR should:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr E towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything that may have already been refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr E which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date the payments were originally made to the 
date the complaint is settled. 
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loan that is 
being upheld (loan 7), and treat any repayments made by Mr E as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr E having made 
overpayments then MYJAR should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If an outstanding balance remains then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan (and any principal written-off 
under a redress scheme). If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr E. 
However, if an outstanding balance remains then the lender should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr E.
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in relation loans 4 and 5. 
The overall pattern of Mr Es borrowing for loans 6 and 7 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so MYJAR should remove these loans entirely from his credit file. If 
MYJAR has sold the outstanding loan it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same. 
MYJAR does not have to remove the outstanding loan from Mr Es credit file until this has 
been repaid, but it should remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to deduct tax from this interest. MYJAR should 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold this complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman