DRN-2518469
The complaint
Miss J and Mr R complain about incorrect information and customer service problems they 
experience when applying for a mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. They 
say theyve had to pay an additional £5,600 deposit which they want Halifax to refund them.
What happened
In January 2020 Miss J and Mr R applied for a mortgage with Halifax. They were receiving a 
builders incentive  essentially a discount provided by the property developer. Three weeks 
later, following Halifax reviewing their mortgage application, it was identified that the builders 
incentive together with the amount they were borrowing exceeded 95% of the property 
value. Halifax hadnt made them aware of this when they went through the application with 
Miss J and Mr R.
Halifax explained this was outside of their criteria for offering them a mortgage and that Miss 
J and Mr R would need to find an additional £5,600. Miss J and Mr R have said they had to 
borrow these additional funds from family so that they could proceed with the purchase of 
the new property. And they are now struggling to repay it. They say theyve also had to take 
a mortgage payment holiday to help repay this money and this means their monthly payment 
will increase.
Halifax accepted it hadnt provided Miss J and Mr R with its expected level of customer 
service. It offered £560 in compensation made up of a refund of the valuation fee, cost of 
travelling to another branch and £500 for the distress and inconvenience its mistake had 
caused. 
Miss J and Mr R didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint but thought the offer Halifax had made was fair and 
reasonable. So she didnt recommend it do anything further.
Miss J and Mr R remained unhappy with the offer from Halifax. They said the had a very 
tight budget and had they been told earlier by Halifax that they would need to pay a further 
£5,600 deposit, they wouldve looked at smaller and cheaper properties. They asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss J and Mr R have responded to our investigator in some level of detail raising a number 
of points. I want to reassure them that, whilst I may not address every point theyve made, I 
have considered everything theyve said. Instead I intend to focus on the crux of their 
complaint, which is the incorrect information they were given leading to them needing to find 
a larger deposit. I hope they realise I mean no disrespect by this, but this simply reflects the 
informal nature of this service. 
Halifax accepts that it didnt give Miss J and Mr R correct information when they first applied 
for the mortgage. This did mean that three weeks into their application they were told they 
would need to find a further £5,600 as the builders discount together with the amount they 
were borrowing wouldve taken them over 95% of the property value, which is against 
Halifaxs lending criteria. Its clear that they shouldve been given full and accurate 
information at the start of the application, and Halifax accepts this. So I now need to decide 
what needs to be done to put things right.
Miss J and Mr R consider Halifax should pay them the additional £5,600 they werent 
expecting to pay. Having thought about this, I dont think it is right to ask Halifax to pay this. 
Ill explain why. 
I understand Miss J and Mr R felt they had no choice but to proceed with the purchase given 
that they had already given notice to leave the home they were renting. But it was Miss J 
and Mr Rs choice to give notice to their landlord before having a formal mortgage offer in 
place. There was always a risk Halifax would not be able to offer them a mortgage, or 
certainly the amount the needed, and by giving notice on their rented property at such an 
early stage, they were committing themselves without having formal funding in place for their 
new home. Whilst I accept that they were working to a very tight deadline, I believe this was 
largely due to their own actions. 
Ultimately, whilst Halifax gave them incorrect information, they did correct this within three 
weeks. Whilst Miss J and Mr R felt they were committed to the purchase given that theyd 
given notice on their current home, I think they couldve withdrawn from this particular 
purchase had they wanted to. By either speaking with their current landlord or looking for 
somewhere else to live temporarily. Because of this, Im not going to ask Halifax to 
reimburse them the additional deposit they had to pay.
Its clearly been a stressful time for Miss J and Mr R and theyve set out in detail how this 
has affected them. Im sorry to hear what they have gone through. Buying a house is not 
easy, and its clear that mistakes by Halifax has not made the process any easier for them. 
However, Halifax has offered a total of £560. Having thought about this carefully, I think the 
amount is fair and reasonable, and is in line with any award this service may make in similar 
circumstances. So Im not going to ask it to pay anything further.
I understand they believe that Halifax is responsible for them having had to take a payment 
holiday which means their payment will now increase. But again, this is a result of them 
deciding to proceed with the mortgage once they were aware of the increased amount they 
were required to pay. As Ive said above, they chose to proceed, so Im not going to ask 
Halifax to do anything further in this regard.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Miss J and Mr R £560 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience its caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman