DRN-3930476
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his account following a payment in. They 
closed his account and didnt allow him access to the funds. He would like compensation for 
the way Santander handled the situation.
Mr F is represented by his mother Mrs F.
What happened
Mr F had an account with Santander.
On 27 May 2021 he received £7,000 into the account. Santander reviewed the account. 
They blocked the account during the review and asked Mr F to contact the bank.
Mr F provided some information to the bank regarding the origin of funds and the entitlement 
to those funds. Santander didnt think this was enough and wanted confirmation from the 
sending bank I will call A, that the funds were genuine and were intended for Mr F.
Santander sent Mr F a notice to close letter dated 28 July 2021. They gave him 30 days 
notice to close the account. In the meantime, the account remained blocked.
Mrs F has said it was very difficult contacting Santander as they wouldnt speak to her 
unless Mr F gave permission, and this meant there were only limited times when Mrs F and 
Mr F could both be present to contact Santander. She said Santander didnt take this into 
account when contacting Mr F and they didnt tell her about the letter of authority until much 
later.
The funds were finally released on 20 October 2021.
Mrs F complained to Santander. They said they were entitled to review and block the 
account and they needed information from the sending bank regarding the £7,000. They said 
they hadnt done anything wrong when they decided to close the account.
Mrs F was unhappy, she wanted compensation for the inconvenience, so she complained to 
our service. One of the adjudicators looked into the complaint. She said Santander were 
entitled to review the payment into the account and to block the account whilst the review 
was taking place. She said they were entitled to close the account. She thought Santander 
had done nothing wrong when they required Mr F to give permission for the bank to speak to 
Mrs F about the complaint. So, although she appreciated Mrs F experienced difficulty, she 
didnt think compensation was due.
Mrs F disagreed she said they had to make numerous calls and visits to the branch as well 
as to bank A branches to resolve the situation and she thought she should be entitled to 
compensation. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Fs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Santander were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Fs account. 
Mrs F has said that Santander blocked the account. I can see that in blocking the account 
the bank was following an internal process which they carried out in order to comply with 
their legal and regulatory obligations. This is reflected in the terms and conditions of the 
account. This was a legitimate exercise so I cant say Santander was unfair. 
Santander went on to close the account. 
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly in closing Mr Fs account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Santander closed Mr Fs 
account without notice. For Santander to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
The account was blocked in May 2021 and Mr F received his funds in October 2021. I have 
gone on to consider if there were delays caused by Santander in the release of the funds. I 
have looked at the information provided including the bank contact notes. I can see that 
Santander were contacting Bank A regularly to try and get information about the sender of 
the £7,000. Looking at the notes I am satisfied that Santander didnt cause any delays and 
were in regular contact with bank A. Once bank A provided the required information about 
the funds, Santander released these without delay, so I cant say that the funds were 
released late because of Santanders failures.
Mrs F has said it was very difficult for her to pursue the complaint and Santander required 
permission from Mr F to speak to her. I would have expected Santander to require Mr Fs 
permission to speak to Mrs F. I know Mrs F was trying to help Mr F resolve the situation but 
having considered all the evidence I think Mrs F was inconvenienced much more than Mr F. 
I appreciate Santander could have told Mrs F about the letter of authority sooner and this 
would have helped her but as Ive said most of the distress over the situation was 
experienced by Mrs F and not the account holder, so I wont be awarding any compensation.
In summary I appreciate that Mrs F has had a lot to deal with, but I cant say Santander have 
acted unfairly when they reviewed, blocked and closed the account. I cant see there were 
delays on the part of Santander in releasing the funds and they contacted Bank A regularly, 
so I wont be asking them to do anything more here. My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman