DRN-1551388
The complaint
Mr S complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim he made 
on his motor breakdown policy. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr S added a car to the breakdown policy hed taken out with Acromas in 
2018. The car broke down on 16 April 2019. The technician who attended the breakdown 
said he suspected a faulty turbo or EGR valve. The car was taken to a garage. 13 days later 
the garage discussed the case with Acromas and said the turbo was faulty. It was removed 
from the car so Acromas could arrange for an independent engineer to examine it. 
The independent engineer had sent his report to Acromas by 9 May 2019, when Mr S was 
told that the claim was going to be declined. In the engineers view, the turbo had seized, 
probably due to wear and tear. He thought the condition would have been developing prior to 
the car being on cover and would probably have been evident due to a lack of power / 
performance and warning lights. The policy excludes pre-existing faults from cover.
Mr S said both he and his wife had driven the car but neither of them had seen any warning 
lights or experienced a loss of power. He said the car passed its MOT test around six 
months previously and had only been driven 3,000 miles or so since then. He didnt agree 
that there was a fault prior to the car being covered by the policy. And he said there was 
nothing in the policy excluding the turbo or wear and tear.  
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ss complaint. He said the policy didnt require a 
consumer to know about an issue that led to a breakdown. He said Acromas could decline a 
claim if it had evidence of the fault existing prior to cover applying to a car. He noted that the 
engineer thought the problem had been developing for longer than the 34 days the car was 
on the policy. The investigator thought it likely (given the engineers comments) that it started 
after the MOT test but before cover for the car began. He confirmed that the engineer who 
drafted the report for Acromas was independent. In the absence of any other engineering 
evidence, he thought Acromas had acted reasonably in declining the claim. 
Mr S said the reason Acromas gave for declining the claim wasnt valid, as the fault was the 
turbo seizing up, and that didnt happen before the car was covered by the policy. He didnt 
think deterioration could be classed as a fault. He said the independent engineer was wrong 
to say warning lights would have been showing. He thought the investigator was wrong to 
assume that the problem started after the MOT test was carried out. And he said the 
investigator hadnt commented on his complaint about Acromass poor service. That 
included its decision to have the turbo removed without his permission.
The investigator said the deterioration of the turbo led to its seizure, so it was reasonable to 
consider it part of the fault. He said the engineers speculative view of the warning lights 
didnt form part of his reasoning, as Acromas didnt have to show that Mr S knew about the 
fault. He pointed out that we can only consider issues that have been raised with a business 
first. He didnt think Mr S had shown that hed raised service issues with Acromas.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable for Acromas to rely on the view of an independent engineer. He 
provided an opinion after examining the turbo. His overriding duty wasnt to Acromas, but to 
a court, in assisting it to reach a decision if necessary. We normally give great weight to 
independent engineers views. Acromas told Mr S that it would consider a view from another 
independent engineer instructed by him, but he didnt take up the offer. 
   
The independent engineers report is clear in saying that the deterioration of the turbo led to 
its eventual seizure. In his view the problem causing the breakdown wasnt sudden (as 
required by the policy) and didnt start to develop during the time the car was on cover. I 
dont agree with Mr S that the deterioration that led to the breakdown can be separated from 
the outcome it led to. So I think it was fair for Acromas to conclude that the car wasnt on 
cover when the fault that caused the breakdown started.  As pre-existing faults arent 
covered by the policy, I think it was fair for it to decline the claim. 
Although the engineer thought it was likely that warning lights and a loss of power would 
have been evident before the breakdown, he didnt say that was definitely the case. Mr S 
says there was no sign of a developing problem, so I can understand why he objected to the 
comment. But as the investigator pointed out, the policy exclusion doesnt require the fault to 
be obvious or noted by a consumer. It just needs to be pre-existing. 
Mr S complained to Acromas verbally, but later he complained to us in writing. Mr S told us 
hed challenged Acromas about its decision to decline the claim. He also made it clear to us 
that he didnt agree with the independent engineers opinion. As Mr S had complained to 
Acromas about its decision, were able to review it (including the independent engineers part 
in it). Thats because Acromas had a chance to give its view of the matter first.  
Mr S commented in his letter to us that Acromas had asked the garage to remove the turbo 
without consulting him. He also said he thought there was a delay on Acromass part, and he 
wasnt happy with the lack of communication from it, especially from its complaints team. 
The investigator didnt review these issues as he didnt think they were part of Mr Ss formal 
complaint to Acromas. 
Recently we asked Acromas to confirm whether Mr S had raised with it the issues we didnt 
review. It provided a copy of the initial call in which Mr S said he wanted to make a 
complaint. Most of the call was about the diagnosis of the fault and the decline of the claim. 
Mr S didnt say he was unhappy about the turbo being removed without his permission. But 
in any event, Acromas also provided a copy of its call with the garage. Its advisor couldnt 
get an explanation about what was wrong with the turbo, so he told the garage it would have 
to be assessed by an independent engineer. He also told the garage several times that it 
must get Mr Ss permission to remove the turbo. So Acromas wasnt at fault anyway. 
The initial call between Mr S and Acromas shows that he did complain about the time it had 
taken to call him about the claim and the lack of updates from Acromas. The advisor 
explained the reason for most of that. He pointed out that 13 days had passed waiting for the 
garage to assess the fault and discuss it with Acromas. So there were no updates to give. As 
it then emerged that the garage hadnt fully diagnosed the fault, Acromas had to wait for the 
independent engineers report. I dont think the advisor accepted that there had been any undue delay, but he apologised to Mr S anyway. The conversation then moved back onto 
the diagnosis of the fault and whether Mr S should cancel the policy.
Having listened to the call, I can see why the advisor didnt realise that Mr S wasnt happy 
with his explanation and his apology. I think its understandable that he thought Mr S only 
wanted to make a formal complaint about the diagnosis of the fault and the claims decline. 
In my opinion, it was reasonable for Acromas not to realise Mr S wanted the service issues 
to be reviewed. But that means we cant consider the matter.
  
It seems Mr S wasnt contacted by Acromass complaints team, which must have been 
frustrating for him. I think Acromas made an error in sending him a letter stating that it 
believed it had resolved his complaint. But the letter invited Mr S to contact it if he had any 
concerns. Clearly the intention was to encourage Mr S to let Acromas know if he wasnt 
happy. As far as I can see, Mr S didnt do that. The issue might still have been dealt with to 
his satisfaction. But as Mr S referred his complaint to us instead, Acromas wasnt given a 
chance to put matters right. 
 
Taking everything into account, I can see why Mr S was so disappointed with the decline of 
the claim, but as I dont think Acromas acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman