DRN-3780570
The complaint
Miss T complains that esure Insurance Limited settled her claim on her motor insurance 
policy proportionately following the theft of her car. Shes also unhappy with its valuation of 
her car.
What happened
Miss T took out a motor insurance policy with esure and it was renewed automatically twice. 
When her car was stolen, Miss T made a claim. esure said she hadnt disclosed a speeding 
offence at renewal. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to settle the claim proportionately. It only paid 67.73% of her claim. Miss T 
was unhappy with this and with the valuation it offered for her car. 
Miss T brought her complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be not upheld. She 
thought there had been a misrepresentation and she thought this was careless. She thought 
esure would have charged Miss T a higher premium if she had disclosed the conviction. So 
she thought esure was entitled to settle the claim by paying Miss T a settlement 
proportionate to the amount of premium she had paid. And she thought esures valuation of 
Miss Ts car was fair and reasonable as it was made correctly in keeping with our approach. 
Miss T doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
Miss T said shed looked at online comparison sites and found that disclosure of the 
conviction led to about a 5% increase in the premium quoted. So she thought esure should 
increase its offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss T felt very frustrated and disappointed that esure would only 
settle her claim proportionately. I can see that this has had a significant impact on her 
finances.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
esure thinks Miss T failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she didnt disclose a speeding conviction at the renewal of her policy. Ive looked at Miss Ts 
renewal documents and I can see that they told Miss T:
Its important that you check your documents and call us if any of the information is
inaccurate, has changed over the past year or changes in the future. Not telling us could
lead to you being uninsured, your policy being cancelled or voided, a claim rejected or
reduced, or additional terms being applied to your policy.
The Insurance Schedule included a section for Details of the convictions and fixed penalty 
offences in the last 5 years for all the drivers and none were disclosed. 
I think this was a clear question asked of Miss T at the renewal of her policy. But Miss T had 
a speeding conviction in 2020. But its not recorded on her renewal documents and Miss T 
didnt contact esure to correct this. And after her car was stolen, Miss T realised it was 
missing and immediately told esure about it. So Im satisfied that Miss T didnt disclose her 
speeding conviction at renewal, as she should have done.
So I think Miss T didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
renewed her policy. esure has provided evidence from its underwriting guidelines that shows 
that if Miss T hadnt made the misrepresentation, then it would have charged her a higher 
premium. Its provided a calculation of the difference this made. And Im satisfied that Miss T 
paid only 67.73% of the premium she should have paid. This means Im satisfied Miss Ts 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
esure has said Miss Ts misrepresentation wasnt deliberate or reckless. And I can see that 
Miss T has explained that she had a lot on at the time when she renewed her policy. And I 
can see that she reported the error immediately after the theft. So I cant say that esures 
decision to treat the misrepresentation as careless was unfair. 
As Im satisfied Miss Ts misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions esure can take in accordance with CIDRA. As esure would have charged more 
without the misrepresentation, then Im satisfied that its entitled to settle the claim in 
proportion to the amount of premium Miss T paid compared to what she should have paid. 
And, as Ive said above, esure has shown that this was 67.73%.
Miss T thought esure should permit her to pay the premium she should have paid and then 
settle her claim in full. But this isnt the remedy allowed under CIDRA. Im satisfied that esure 
is entitled by CIDRA to settle the claim proportionately. 
Miss T said shed found online quotes where the additional premium charged for a disclosed 
speeding conviction is less. And so she thought esures settlement was unfair. I can 
understand, given the value of her car, that this will have a substantial impact on Miss T. But 
Im satisfied that esures underwriters have shown the additional premium she would have 
been charged. And so Im satisfied that esure should only pay 67.73% of her claim. 
Therefore, Im satisfied esure was entitled to settle Miss Ts claim proportionately in 
accordance with CIDRA. And as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing esure to rely on it to settle Miss Ts claim 
proportionately produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint
Miss T was also unhappy with the valuation that esure placed on her car. The Investigator 
has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars 
but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought esures valuation was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how she 
came to this conclusion. I can see that she looked at the three valuations that esure had 
made and made a further one in an additional guide. She looked for cars of the same make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as Miss Ts car. 
The average of the valuations she found was in keeping with the valuation offered by esure. 
So Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable and made correctly in keeping with our 
approach. I dont require esure to increase this. 
Miss T thought she had lost out as car prices had increased since she made her complaint. 
But I think Miss T could have mitigated her losses as she had accepted esures settlement 
cheque as part-payment whilst still pursuing her complaint. And so I cant hold esure 
responsible for Miss Ts subsequent losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman