DRN-2142686
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Santander UK Plc has not fully compensated them for the mis-sale of a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R complained to Santander about a PPI policy sold to them with their mortgage 
in the 1990s. 
In 2016 Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs R to say it had upheld their complaint. Santander 
offered to refund all the PPI premiums they had paid ( £216.00). And Santander offered to 
add compensatory interest  calculated at 8% simple for the time they had been out of pocket. 
The interest came to £305.14 net of tax. The total offer came to £521.14.
In 2016 Mr Rs father became seriously ill and Mr and Mrs R became his primary carers. As 
a result Mr and Mrs R didnt return the acceptance form in 2016.
Sadly, Mr Rs father died in 2019. Mr and Mrs R then wrote to Santander to belatedly accept 
its offer of compensation.
Santander agreed to pay the original offer but said it would only pay £521.14 and would not 
update the compensatory interest to the settlement date.
Mr and Mrs R asked this service to step in and our adjudicator asked Santander to update its 
offer.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators findings and declined to update the offer. So the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Santander has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont 
look into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Mr and Mrs R. In this decision Ive only 
looked at how Santander has calculated its offer and if it should update the offer.
When a PPI is mis-sold Id expect the business to put the consumer in the financial position 
theyd be in if the PPI had not been sold.
In the case of a regular premium PPI like Mr and Mrs Rs Id expect the business to refund 
all the PPI premiums and add compensatory interest for the time theyve been out of pocket. 
And I can see I can see Santanders original offer in 2016 did this.
But if  Santander doesnt update the 8% interest, at the point it makes payment to Mr and 
Mrs R they wont have been fully compensated for the mis-sale of the PPI policy. That is  
because they wont have been compensated for the four years between 2016 and 2020 
when they have remained out of pocket. 
I can see Mr and Mrs R didnt accept Santanders offer for four years. But they have 
explained the distressing reasons for this and Santander has not disputed these 
circumstances. Ordinarily  Mr and Mrs R would have six months from the offer letter to either 
accept the offer or bring it to this service if they remained unhappy. But Santander has 
agreed to waive the six months deadline. It seems to me that as Santander has agreed to 
waive the deadline it should compensate Mr and Mrs R in line with this services guidelines. 
And those guidelines are that Mr and Mrs R should be compensated for all the time theyve 
been out of pocket. 
So Santander needs to recalculate its offer and pay compensatory interest up to the point of 
settlement. 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr or Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs R compensation as 
set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman