DRN-1193399
 
The complaint
Mr G says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr G bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a loan. The loan included an 
amount to pay for the policy. The policy provided cover for Mr G if he couldnt work because 
of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
Mr G says he doesn't remember PPI being discussed when he took out the loan, and 
he didn't know it had been added to his account. I've noted everything Mr G has said. 
Mr G has also told me he is dyslexic, and would've had difficulty reading 
any documents HSBC gave to him. The difficulty I have is that I can't be sure what 
was discussed between HSBC and Mr G when the loan was arranged. I'm also 
mindful that these events took place many years ago, and that exact recollections of 
what happened can fade over time. But on balance I think HSBC made Mr G aware 
the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it out. I say this because from what 
we know about HSBCs sales processes at the time, Mr G wouldve had to sign a 
creditor/loan protection declaration form to confirm that he wanted the cover. I think 
its unlikely that HSBC wouldve added the PPI to Mr Gs account if he hadnt signed 
the form to show that he agreed to the cover. And even if Mr G had difficulty reading 
the documents, I think it's likely that HSBC would've discussed them with him so that 
he understood what he was signing up to. So on balance, I think Mr G wouldve 
realised he had a choice about buying the PPI.
HSBC accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Mr G, but it doesnt look as if 
it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr G has told me he was self-employed when he took out the policy. But it wouldn't 
have been any more difficult for Mr G to make a successful unemployment claim on 
the policy than it would've been for someone who was employed. Having the policy in place would've meant Mr G didn't have to rely on his friends or family either. So 
overall, I think Mr G would've had some use for the policy.
From what we know about HSBCs loan documentation at the time, the cost of the 
policy was shown  including the amount of the premium, the interest payable on the 
premium and the total cost. So I think Mr G would have understood how much the 
PPI would cost if he kept the policy for its full term. 
Mr G would have received a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early. I dont know if HSBC thought about this when it recommended the policy 
or explained the situation clearly to Mr G. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr G 
thought he would repay the loan early. So I dont think this made the policy 
unsuitable or better information about this wouldve stopped him buying it.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
 
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman