DRN-4057992
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr C acquired a used car from Blue Motor Finance under a hire 
purchase agreement. The car was eight years old and had covered approximately 91,000 
miles when the agreement started. The agreement was for 54 months, and the cash price of 
the car was £4,700.
A week after getting the car Mr C experienced a problem with it. He took it for a diagnostic 
test which showed faults with the fuel rail/system pressure being too low and the fuel control 
system being too rich when idling. He got in touch with the dealership who supplied the car 
and asked to reject it. The dealership asked Mr C for an opportunity to repair it, which he 
agreed to. 
The car was returned to the dealership for repair in January 2022. Mr C has said the engine 
management light (EML) came on a few weeks later, but he didnt take any action as he felt 
the dealership could be trusted and they had repaired the faults. Several months later, in 
August 2022, the car stopped working. At this time Mr C had covered approximately 12,000 
miles in it. Mr C took the car to another garage to fix, which took around a month, and he 
had to hire a car out for this time to enable him to continue to travel. He also got in touch 
with Blue Motor Finance at this point to complain as he felt the repairs carried out in January 
2022 hadnt fixed the problem, and the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
Blue Motor Finance looked into things for Mr C but didnt uphold his complaint. They said, as 
the agreement had been in place longer than six months they needed evidence from Mr C to 
confirm the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality when it had been supplied to him. As they 
didnt feel they had that evidence, Blue Motor Finance said there wasnt anything they could 
do to help with the repair of the car, or the hire car costs Mr C had incurred. 
Mr C didnt agree with this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. She said that, although she was satisfied there was a fault with the car, she wasnt 
persuaded it was there, or developing, at the point of sale. She said she felt the repairs 
carried out by the dealership were in line with the diagnostic report and there wasnt any 
evidence to support the EML coming on was because of the previous fault or repairs. She 
concluded that she believed the car had broken down because of wear and tear, when she 
considered the age of the car and the mileage of it, including the additional miles that had 
been covered by Mr C since the repair in January 2022. 
Mr C didnt accept this. He said he felt the initial repairs hadnt fixed the problem and had 
only led to the car breaking down further into the agreement rather than sooner. 
As Mr C didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the hire purchase agreement entered by Mr C is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Blue Motor Finance is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and are responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr C entered. 
Because Blue Motor Finance supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory 
quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into 
accounts factors such as  amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. 
The CRA also says that the quality of goods includes their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods. 
But on the other hand, satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means the 
components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on 
various factors. In Mr Cs case, the car was used and had covered around 91,000 miles 
when he acquired it. So, Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car. 
Having said that, the cars condition should have met the standard a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price. 
In contrast to our investigator, Im more persuaded than not that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied. I say this because its not in question that the 
car showed faults on a diagnostics test within two weeks of being supplied, and the 
dealership that supplied it were happy to take it back and complete the repairs. 
However, even though Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr C, Im also satisfied the car was repaired satisfactorily, which is in line with 
the remedies available to Mr C under the CRA.
The CRA explains that, in Mr Cs case, the dealership should have one chance to repair the 
car and, following that repair, the goods (in this case the car) should conform to contract. If 
it doesnt, Mr C can, for example, ask for a price reduction or to reject the car. Mr C has said 
that he feels the repairs completed by the dealership had nothing to do with the diagnostic 
test hed had carried out  but I havent seen anything to confirm that to be the case. The 
CRA implies that the repairs should be completed satisfactorily, and they should bring the 
contract to conformity. Im satisfied that has happened in this case when I consider Mr Cs 
further use of the car. 
Following the repairs carried out by the dealership, Mr C travelled 11,900 miles in 
approximately seven months in the car. So, I cant reasonably conclude that the repairs 
hadnt been carried out satisfactorily or that the car failed to conform to the contract Mr C 
had entered when he acquired it. While I understand Mr Cs frustration, and his comment 
that the EML came on a few weeks after the initial repairs were done, he didnt take any 
action at that stage. Its possible that by continuing to use the car he made the problem 
worse, and I cant see that he mitigated the situation when the EML first came on. I havent 
seen anything to persuade me the EML came on because of any previous repairs that had 
been carried out. Im more persuaded that the problems that subsequently arose with the car are because of wear and tear due to the cars age and mileage. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Blue Motor Finance have acted unreasonably 
here. I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman