DRN-3457845
The complaint
Mrs P complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) unfairly avoided her home insurance policy for misrepresentation following a claim.
What happened
Mrs P took out home insurance with NFU in September 2020 via a broker. In January 2021 
she found cracks in the ceiling plasterboard and the ceiling needed battening and she made 
a claim to NFU. NFUs loss adjuster visited and asked if she had made any other claims in 
the past few years. Mrs P said shed made a claim for a leaking chimney, which hadnt been 
covered and for a glass shower screen that had been covered. She said the loss adjuster 
told her the cracks in the ceiling werent related to the issue shed had with the chimney.
The broker wrote to Mrs P on NFUs behalf saying when the policy started she was asked if 
she had suffered any losses in the past five years, and her answer no was recorded on the 
Statement of Facts that was sent to her. It said this induced NFU to offer her cover and it 
now considered this to be reckless and would avoid her policy to inception. It said this meant 
NFU had no liability for her claim and would retain her premiums in lieu of claims paid.
Mrs P said that when NFU avoided her policy she had to immediately seek alternative cover 
and said NFU also told her it wouldnt renew her motor insurance when it expired.   
Mrs P complained to NFU saying she hadnt misrepresented her situation when she took out 
the policy as she had answered the question about her property being in a good state of 
repair accurately. She said the proposal form hadnt asked if she had made a claim in the 
past few years, but asked about loss or damage which she thought referred to anything she 
might have had to pay to a third party. Mrs P said she told the loss adjuster about the claims 
when asked. Mrs P wants NFU to rescind its avoidance of her insurance. 
NFU rejected Mrs Ps complaint, saying she was asked questions when she applied for the 
policy including that she had no claims in the past five years and that her property was in a 
good state of repair and free from any defect, and her responses were a misrepresentation. 
It said Mrs P was given a second opportunity to disclose her claims, but she still didnt 
disclose the latter claim, and this was only discovered from contact with her previous insurer. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said Mrs P disclosed previous 
claims to the loss adjuster and the second claim wasnt specifically asked about. But Mrs P 
ought to have mentioned both claims but the questions at inception could have been clearer 
and NFUs response should have been to charge a higher premium, not avoid the policy. 
She said NFU could decline the claim as it wasnt covered, but it should refund Mrs Ps 
premiums, remove any markers and pay her £100 compensation for her inconvenience.
Mrs P agreed with the investigator, but NFU didnt. It said the question asked about losses 
included claims. It considered Mrs Ps misrepresentation to be reckless and so it could avoid 
the policy. The investigator said theres no evidence of recklessness by Mrs P but NFU could 
treat the misrepresentation as careless and as it would have still insured the risk, albeit at a 
higher premium, it couldnt avoid the policy.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
NFU thinks Mrs P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
answered the following questions on the proposal form for her insurance in September 2020. 
Is the property in a good state of repair and free from damage or defect of any kind?
Answer: Yes
During the last 5 years have you or any resident members of your family suffered any loss 
or damage or incurred any liability at this or any other address?
Answer: No
Ive thought about these questions and consider them to be fairly clear, although the 
reference is to losses rather than claims. I dont think Mrs P took reasonable care with her 
responses and misrepresented her circumstances. I have now considered whether Mrs Ps 
misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation i.e. did it make a difference to NFU. 
 
NFU have said that it would likely have insured Mrs P had she disclosed her previous 
claims, albeit at a higher premium and with different terms. This means Im satisfied Mrs Ps 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
CIDRA sets out that insurers may classify a qualifying misrepresentation as deliberate or 
reckless, or careless and gives different remedies for these. An insurer is required to show 
that a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless. If it does so it may avoid a policy and 
retain the policyholders premiums.
NFU says Mrs Ps misrepresentation was reckless because she failed to disclose recent 
claims when taking out the policy and again when it wrote to her in February 2021. NFU 
state it is highly unlikely that the damage shown in its loss adjusters report occurred within 
the four-month period from policy inception as Mrs Ps ceiling hadnt been repaired from the 
previous chimney incident. However, Mrs P said she had the chimney fixed and said no 
damage to the ceiling was caused by the chimney. 
NFU said Mrs P had a further opportunity to disclose both previous claims when it wrote to 
her in February 2021. This letter was sent after Mrs P had disclosed the claims to NFUs loss 
adjuster but before NFU had received the loss adjusters report and is limited to the chimney claim. NFU was incorrect to say Mrs P had been asked about claims at inception, and the 
broker was incorrect to tell her NFU had been induced to offer her cover by her answer of 
no to this question. I dont think NFU has shown Mrs P to have acted recklessly, but her 
misrepresentation might fairly be treated as careless.
As Im satisfied that Mrs Ps misrepresentation could be treated as careless, Ive looked at 
the actions NFU can take in accordance with CIDRA. NFU said it would have offered cover, 
and so it cannot avoid the policy. If NFU wishes to treat Mrs Ps misrepresentation as 
careless it must treat the contract as if entered into on the terms that it says it would have 
required had there not been a misrepresentation and must also reconsider Mrs Ps claim. 
However, little would be gained by this as I can see that NFU would have rejected Mrs Ps 
claim in any event based on its loss adjusters report, There is no evidence that the damage 
to the ceiling has resulted from an insured peril or an outside force. In the absence of an 
insured event the damage would fall to be considered an uninsured loss and so the rejection 
appears to be fair. I understand that Mrs P accepts this and is not pursuing the claim and 
has cover with another insurer.
Putting things right
As I find that the avoidance of Mrs Ps policy wasnt supported by CIDRA and unfair I think 
her misrepresentation shouldnt be treated as reckless or deliberate, and the avoidance of 
her policy should be rescinded by NFU, with all records amended accordingly. I think Mrs P 
has been caused unnecessary inconvenience by NFU in having to find alternative insurance 
for her home and car. I agree with the investigator that NFU should pay her £100 
compensation for the impact this has had upon her.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do the following:
remove any avoidance or cancellation markers against Mrs Ps name:
pay Mrs P £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has been 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman