DRN-1556266
Mr H is being represented by a friend. For ease, Ill refer to the actions of the representative 
as being those of Mr H.
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC asked him to visit a branch to verify his identity.
What happened
Around July 2019, Barclays asked Mr H to attend one of its branches to verify his identity 
after it had suspended access to his telephone banking service. Mr H was able to do this on 
the same day and regained normal access.
Mr H complained because travelling to the branch was difficult for him due to his medical 
conditions. Mr H says he hadnt left home since November 2018 because of this and asked 
Barclays to compensate him for making him travel.
Barclays says it wasnt aware of Mr Hs medical conditions before the suspension and has 
now placed care markers on his account. Barclays says it offered a home visit to verify 
Mr Hs identity, but he declined this because he needed access to his account straight away. 
Barclays explained that it suspended access because of a suspicious telephone call and that 
it followed its process correctly for situations like this. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr H asked this service to review his complaint. Our investigator didnt 
think that Barclays acted unfairly. The investigator acknowledged that Barclays didnt always 
explain things clearly, but he was satisfied that it acted reasonably in handling the 
suspension and the request for Mr H to verify his identity in person.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a review of his complaint. 
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision, explaining why I think the complaint should be upheld. The 
main points from my decision were:
Its up to Barclays to determine what procedures it follows in order to protect its 
customers accounts  my role is to consider whether Barclays treated Mr H fairly in 
this instance. I didn't think it did. 
Barclays told us that it had only suspended Mr Hs telephone banking service  Mr 
H wouldve still had access to his account via other means which included mobile 
banking, internet banking and the use of his debit card. But I dont think Barclays 
made this clear to Mr H and I think he understood the position to be that access to 
his entire banking service has been suspended. 
Mr H says he enquired about whether he could still use his debit card but wasnt 
given an answer - and I can't see that this position was ever clarified so it's likely Mr 
H would've believed that he couldn't access his account at all.Mr H has some specific medical conditions and explained the difficulty hed have in 
visiting a branch.  But none of the call handlers at Barclays looked to clarify the 
actual position and tell him that he could in fact use his debit card and access his 
account using other means.
Because of his medical conditions Mr H appears to rely on his bank account and 
debit card to arrange and pay for food and other essential living costs. So, believing 
hed lost total access to his account would more than likely have placed him in a 
state of anxiety  given hed have thought he wouldnt be able to access his money 
and pay for essential living costs. If Mr H had known that he had access to mobile 
and internet banking, as well as being able to use his debit card, then I think its likely 
he wouldve agreed to a home visit  given hed have the flexibility of regaining 
access to his telephone banking at a future date. 
I think Mr H felt obliged to follow the instructions from Barclays as otherwise he 
would've thought he'd have to face the prospect of having no access to his bank 
account, which he depends on to get about his daily activities. It seems to me that Mr 
H had no other option but to leave his home to verify his identity.
Even though Barclays didn't have prior knowledge of Mr H's medical conditions - 
when it did find out, it should've made sure he had a better understanding of 
the situation and the options available to him.
After it flagged the suspicious telephone call, Barclays continued to communicate 
with Mr H over the phone and was satisfied that it was him calling. And if it was able 
to do so, then I can't see why it couldn't also explain more clearly which facilities it 
had suspended.
In summary, I didn't think it was reasonable for Barclays to put Mr H in a position where he 
felt he had to leave his home when he didnt want or need to. This was a situation Barclays 
couldve avoided if it had engaged better with Mr Hs position. Instead, its handling of 
matters caused Mr H distress and inconvenience because of his medical conditions. He also 
had to engage in several telephone calls with Barclays, during which it seems he became 
quite upset and distressed. Mr H told Barclays that hed been upset over the days that 
followed and this led to him being unable to eat properly and take his medication  which in 
turn, made his symptoms worse.
In the circumstances, it seemed fair to me that Barclays should compensate Mr H for the 
difficulties its actions caused him. To put things right, I said that Barclays should pay Mr H 
£200 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional findings and had no further comments to add. So 
there's nothing further for me to consider. My final decision remains as outlined in my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm upholding this complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to pay £200 compensation to Mr H.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman