DRN-3571123
The complaint
Mr H says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams), trading as Jacamo, 
irresponsibly lent to him. He has requested that the interest and late payment charges he 
paid on his account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by J D Williams to Mr H. 
The account was opened in May 2018 with Mr H being given an initial credit limit of £250. 
This limit was increased 5 times until it reached £1,250 in November 2018. 
The account was closed in September and the amount owing was passed on to a third 
party. 
Mr H says hes unhappy that J D Williams continued to increase his credit limit when he 
was only making minimum payments each month and was experiencing financial difficulty. 
He also feels that J D Williams worsened his financial position by continuing to lend to him.
In my provisional decision dated 23 June 2022 I explained why, with the exception of 
refunding Mr H for one occurrence of late payment charge with interest, I didnt think 
that J D Williams had acted unfairly in the way it handled Mr Hs complaint. I set out an 
extract below:
J D Williams says it acted as a responsible lender when opening Mr Hs account and 
increasing his credit limits. Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why, with the exception 
of the point in April 2019 by which time Mr H had missed or underpaid three payments one 
after the other, she didnt think that J D Williams lent to Mr H irresponsibly. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with 
Mr H, so as to see if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean 
J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Mr Hs credit limits.
Having looked at the complaint in detail, I reached a different outcome to that of our 
adjudicator. Given what J D Williams has told us in response to our adjudicators findings, I 
currently think its likely that J D Williams did enough to show forbearance and help Mr H to 
avoid worsening his financial situation when he started getting into difficulty in or around 
April 2019. But I still consider J D Williams ought to refund one late payment charge. I will 
explain why below. 
When Mr H opened his account in May 2018, J D Williams says there were no signs of 
financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, and taking into 
account the opening credit limit of £250 he was given, I dont think there is anything to 
suggest that it would have been unreasonable for J D Williams to have approved the 
account. J D Williams didnt ask about Mr Hs income. Had it done so I think this may have 
helped it begin to build a picture of his financial circumstances. 
I see that Mr H hasnt been able to give us other information about his financial situation at 
the time of the credit limit increases, such as bank statements. That makes it difficult to see 
whether proportionate checks carried by J D Williams would have shown Mr H was having 
difficulty finding the money to make payments to his account.
Looking at the first two credit limit increases J D Williams gave Mr H, I agree with out 
adjudicator that had J D Williams taken steps to find out more about Mr Hs financial 
situation its likely it would have found that the minimum payments Mr H was making on his 
account showed it was affordable.
And for the later increases, in September, October and November 2018, I also agree that 
J D Williams should have requested details of Mr Hs income, daily expenditure and debts 
owing elsewhere. Overall, however, our adjudicator thought there wasnt enough to show 
that Mr H was experiencing financial difficulty to the extent that J D Williams shouldnt have 
increased his credit limit on each of these occasions.
Our adjudicator also thought that by the time Mr H started apparently missing payments in 
February 2019, when he was using close to three quarters of his available credit, there was 
a real risk that Mr H was getting into difficulty in managing his payments to the account. In 
response to that, J D Williams clarified that Mr H had not in fact underpaid in February 2019 
due to an adjustment following an item being returned. Although this didnt show on the 
account statement, the lower minimum payment required would have been visible to Mr H 
on his online account. Mr H then began missing payments from March 2019. In response to 
the first missed payment, J D Williams says it attempted to contact him using texts, emails, 
letters and phone calls. These included an offer to reduce his credit limit and advice about 
contacting debt support organisations. However, Mr H didnt respond to any of these. 
J D Williams also says that once Mr H had missed two payments, he would only have been 
charged only two sets of administration charges. However, from looking at the account 
history it seems to me that he was in fact charged three times  for March, April and May 
2019. So I currently think that one of these charges needs to be refunded to Mr H.  
It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this case, although I dont think J D 
Williams actions were necessarily appropriate in all respects, the only award I propose 
making is that Mr H be refunded one of the late payment charges. 
I dont make any other award as I currently dont think theres enough evidence or 
information to suggest that J D Williams treated Mr H unfairly once he started getting 
into difficulty with his account. And I dont think Mr H was caused any other loss or 
material distress or inconvenience as a result of being granted the account and credit 
limit increases.
Mr H acknowledged receiving my decision and made some further comments. J D 
Williams also confirmed receiving it and agreed to my suggested redress for the 
additional late charge, once Mr H accepts my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mr H has referred me to his credit report as evidence of the difficult financial situation he was 
in when he had the account. He also says that as his situation got worse he was unable to 
borrow money elsewhere to help him maintain his payments to J D Williams. He also says 
he never received a letter that J D Williams says it sent him offering to reduce his credit limit, 
but that in any event it should have gone ahead and actioned it. 
Ive reviewed Mr Hs credit report once again as well as the credit scoring J D Williams relied 
upon and history of managing repayments to other lenders. From what Ive seen, Im unable 
to  say that J D Williams acted unfairly or that the account wasnt affordable at the opening of 
the account or when giving him each of the credit limit increases. Ive also kept in mind that 
Mr H didnt give us other information about his financial situation at the time of the credit limit 
increases, such as bank statements. As I explained in my provisional decision, that makes it 
difficult to see whether proportionate checks carried by J D Williams would have shown Mr H 
was having difficulty finding the money to make payments to his account.
Finally, I also consider it likely that J D Williams would have given Mr H the opportunity to 
reject any credit limit increases  and have it reduced - it offered him as part of its process 
for letting customers know about the increased limit. 
I follows that, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I wont be departing from my provisional 
findings in this final decision. Save for the additional late fee that J D Williams needs to 
refund, I dont think J D Williams actions in opening the account, granting Mr H the credit 
limit increases or in relation to his getting into difficulty with his account, were unfair.
What J D Williams needs to do to put things right
J D Williams needs to remove from Mr Hs account one of the three late charges of £12 
that were added in March, April and May 2019, together with any interest that was added 
to the account as a result.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is to partially uphold this complain and 
require J D Williams & Company Limited to put things right by paying the redress set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman