DRN-3850883
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined their buildings insurance 
claim.
All references to Ageas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 November 2022. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy defines wind speeds exceeding 55mph as storm conditions. Ageas said it
records show wind speeds around the time of the damage reached as high as
51mph. It should also be noted this happened during a named storm event (Storm
Eunice).
The wind speeds reported are capable of causing the damage reported to the roof
and meet what this service would consider to be storm conditions. So, in the
circumstances I dont think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to insist the 55mph limit
needs to be reached for damage to be considered under the storm section of the
policy.
With that in mind, Ive considered whether the storm conditions were the main cause
of the damage. Ageas have provided further information in the form of its loss
adjusters report. But I cant see this has been considered in its investigation. Only
that it was satisfied the claim didnt meet the definition of a storm.
Ive not seen anything to persuade me the damage has happened because of
anything other than the storm. And considering the wind speeds present around the
time were strong enough to cause the type of damage reported, Ageas should have
investigated this. Because it didnt do so, I think it has now lost the opportunity to do
so and it should now meet the claim.
So for these reasons, I intend to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
I intend to direct Ageas to now proceed to deal with the claim. If Mr and Mrs F have already
proceeded to have repairs completed, Ageas should pay these costs, on production of
suitable evidence. Ageas should also include 8% simple interest to this figure from the date it
was paid to the date it makes settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ageas didnt agree with my provisional findings. But it has not provided any further 
comments.
Mr and Mrs F didnt provide any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, my decision 
remains the same  and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Ageas should now proceed to deal with the claim. If Mr and Mrs F have already
proceeded to have repairs completed, Ageas should pay these costs, on production of
suitable evidence. Ageas should also include 8% simple interest to this figure from the date it
was paid to the date it makes settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
To put things right, I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman