DRN-3930087
Complaint
Mr M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background 
In August 2016, Mr M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr M decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In November 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ms behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
The system would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
The CMC also added that Mr Ms roof and guttering had been damaged during the 
installation causing an internal leak and requiring significant repair work. 
Mr M also pointed out that his inverter had to be replaced soon after the installation 
of the system. He has since added that P never paid him compensation for lost 
generation.  
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr M or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it offered £100 compensation for not fully 
investigating and responding to Mr Ms complaint.  
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr M. She also thought that Mr M hadnt demonstrated that the damage to the 
roof and internal leak had been caused by the poor installation of the system. But she did 
think Shawbrook should refund the cost of the gutter repair. 
The CMC and Mr M didnt agree. Mr M could not provide evidence as to the cause of the 
damage to the roof because the company that carried out the repair work was now in 
liquidation. It pointed out that he didnt notice the damage until several years after the 
installation because the damage occurred slowly over time, and its only when the ceiling 
collapsed that Mr M became aware there was a problem. Mr M hadnt contacted Shawbrook 
about this issue earlier because hed received poor service from P in the past and needed 
the issues resolved quickly. 
Shawbrook didnt agree explaining that it was not responsible for gutter maintenance and 
some of the repair work quoted was for general maintenance. It didnt feel Mr M had 
demonstrated that the other issues caused was due to a faulty installation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 6 January 2023, I set out why I minded to upholding the 
complaint in part. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached a final decision. Shawbrook replied saying it accepted the findings set 
out in the provisional decision. The CMC replied that it didnt feel it was fair that Mr Ms 
complaint wasnt upheld in full because the repair company had gone into liquidation and 
couldnt provide evidence as to the cause of the roof damage. It felt the Shawbrook had also 
provided no evidence to support its claims.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr M says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and a quote. The quote sets out sets out key information 
about the system, the expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. It 
has been signed by Mr M several times. Ive considered these documents, along with the 
consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is 
most likely to have happened. 
Cost of the system 
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr M was told that the cost of the system was £4,699.99 in both the credit 
agreement and the quote. The total amount of credit is £4,599.99 (after deducting a deposit 
of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £7,242.40.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £56. But I note Mr Ms 
monthly payment is marginally different at £59.52 in the credit agreement  but I dont think 
this difference makes the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. Im also satisfied that the two 
documents, the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the 
system was £4,699.99, it would cost Mr M more than this as he had decided to pay for it with 
an interest bearing loan. 
Financial benefits 
Mr M has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The quote sets out the estimated income Mr M could expect to receive by way of FIT 
payments from the system and savings on energy bills. 
I think its clear that Mr M could expect to receive a total FIT income of £155 (Fit income of 
£98 and export income of £57) annually. This results in an average monthly income of 
£12.91. The quote also went on to look at the electricity savings Mr M could expect from the 
system. The expected annual electricity savings is £160 and the combined income and 
savings annually is shown as £314. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £56 (which is £672 annually). As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments 
and savings on energy bills.
Theres a section headed Your Estimated Monthly Breakdown, which has a table setting out 
Mr Ms monthly payments against the estimated monthly income for the 20-year lifetime of 
the system. For each year, it shows an average monthly estimate for income and savings for 
that year. It then subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £56, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
The monthly payments are only included for 10 years as that was the term of Mr Ms loan. 
I think the table does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments during the full term of the loan. This supports my finding above 
that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT payments and savings would cover the loan 
repayment. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Ms testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments 
would be covered by the FIT income and additional savings. On balance, I think the 
evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that would enable me to 
uphold this complaint on that basis.
Damage to roof and internal leak
Mr M has said that he has had to pay significant sums to a roofing company to repair 
damage to his roof which he feels was caused by the installation of the solar panels system. 
He also had to pay to rectify damage to his ceiling for an internal leak. He has submitted 
evidence of payments made and invoices with a breakdown of the repair work that was 
carried out. He says this damage was caused by the installation of the panels which have 
since been removed and disposed of. Mr M cannot provide any reports as to the cause of 
the damage as the roofing repair company has since gone into liquidation. 
I have thought carefully about Mr Ms claims and understand he has paid out significant 
sums to have repair works carried out. I dont underestimate the effect the outcome of this 
complaint will have on him. 
However, the invoices, payments and works carried out were all conducted around February 
2021, some 5 years after the installation in Autumn 2016. 
I can also see that this wasnt raised with Shawbrook until after the damage had already 
been repaired when he submitted a claim (through his representative) in November 2021. 
If the installation had caused damage to the roof and the internal leak, I would generally 
have expected this to come to light sooner. Five years is a very long time and where that 
time has passed, I would need persuasive evidence that the damage was indeed caused by 
the poor installation of the system. I havent seen sufficient evidence linking the loss he has 
suffered to the installation carried out by P. Normally we would expect there to be experts 
reports to demonstrate this. 
I understand Mr M has also contacted Shawbrook in the past (when his inverter stopped 
working), and while I appreciate he found working with P frustrating, he did send a letter to 
Shawbrook customer services department to say how pleased he was with its service. Had 
Mr M contacted Shawbrook prior to the repair works being carried, it could have sent out its 
own experts to assess this. By not doing this, Mr M has prejudiced Shawbrooks position. 
So while I appreciate the difficulties Mr M has experienced and sympathise that the roofing 
company is now unable to provide any further documentary evidence, Im afraid he hasnt 
provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the loss was caused by a breach of contract 
on the part of P. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not satisfied that the damage to the roof in 2021 and the 
internal leak, was caused by the installation of the solar panel system. And I dont intend to 
ask Shawbrook to reimburse Mr M for the payments he has made.  
Broken inverter and lost generation 
I understand Mr M raised a complaint about a broken inverter in December 2016 and the 
inverter was replaced in early 2017. Shawbrook sent Mr M a letter in April 2017 setting out 
that the inverter has since been repaired by P and that P would be paying compensation for 
the loss of generation for the period the inverter was not working. I can see this letter was 
wrongly addressed, and Mr M has said he never received any further correspondence from 
Shawbrook after having raised his concerns with it. So, it doesnt appear Mr M received this 
letter. Mr M has now told us that he was never paid compensation for lost generation for the period 
the inverter had been broken. Mr M never received Shawbrooks letter from April 2017, so he 
couldnt have chased this payment up at that time. 
Given this has been offered to Mr M but wasnt paid, I think Shawbrook should now 
compensate Mr M for the lost generation as offered by P. 
I can see that Mr M completed a dissatisfaction form which set out he first noticed a problem 
with the inverter on 30 December 2016. And Shawbrook wrote to him on 18 April 2017 (to 
his old address) saying the inverter had been repaired. 
So, I think Shawbrook should work out what Mr Ms system would have generated between 
30 December 2016 to the 18 April 2017 and pay that to him with 8% interest*. 
Gutter repair 
Mr M also raised concerns that P had damaged his guttering in December 2016 and said P 
had agreed to come out and repair it. This is set out in his dissatisfaction form. 
He has also submitted an invoice showing he paid £150 for gutter cleaning services (with a 
handwritten note saying its for solar panel repair). 
Gutter cleaning is part or normal maintenance for properties and usually I wouldnt agree 
that the need for cleaning had been caused by the solar panel installation. However, the 
dissatisfaction note says that the installer had agreed to repair the guttering rather than 
clean it. Additionally, while the invoice has ticked the box for gutter cleaning, theyve also 
written solar panels repair. 
So, to me it looks like this payment was not for general maintenance gutter cleaning, but a 
repair to the gutter caused by the solar panels. This was also raised soon after installation, 
and Mr M says he was told by P that it would go out to repair it (so P appears to have 
accepted it caused the damage). 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr M had a gutter repair (rather than a normal clean) which was 
caused by P, and for which it seems to have agreed to repair it. So overall, I think 
Shawbrook should pay Mr M £150 with interest at 8% to reimburse him for the costs he has 
incurred for P failing to repair the gutter as offered. 
I can also see Shawbrook has offered £100 compensation for trouble and upset caused for 
not fully investigating and responding to his complaint sooner. I think thats a fair offer in this 
case, so I dont intend to ask Shawbrook to pay any more. 
Putting this right
Shawbrook should pay to Mr M:
1. £150 for the gutter repair plus 8% interest*. 8% simple interest should be paid from 
the date Mr M made the payment to the date of settlement
2. Loss of generation from 30 December 2016 until the 18 April 2017  with 8% 
interest*. 8% simple interest should be paid from 18 April 2017 to the date of 
settlement. 
3. £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused as explained above. *If Shawbrook considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs.
Further submissions 
The CMC has reiterated that Mr M is unable to provide any experts report setting out the 
cause of the damage to the roof since the repair company has gone into liquidation. They 
have resubmitted an invoice for the works carried out showing that Mr M paid £13,500 in 
total for the repair works. It details the works carried out including reducing the height of the 
chimney and removing the chimney. There is a handwritten note saying leak from solar 
panels. 
However, there is no further detail on this invoice to satisfy me that this work was needed to 
remedy a breach of contract on the part of P. For example, when did this leak start, was it 
caused by poor installation or did the leak in the roof around the solar panels develop later? 
Was all this work necessary to rectify a leak? Roofs deteriorate over time and require 
maintenance and sometimes replacement, sometimes theyre damaged by stormy weather 
etc. There are many reasons why the roof may have started leaking and Id need experts 
opinion and persuasive evidence to satisfy me, that P had caused this damage during the 
installation and therefore was responsible for its repair. These are all issues that would 
normally be set out in an experts report. 
Mr M has made a claim for £13,500 for breach of contract several years after the installation 
 so the onus is on him to provide evidence to prove that claim. Bearing in mind the 
significant nature of the works carried out, and the sums claimed, as Ive already set out in 
my provisional decision (and set out above), while I sympathise with his position, Im afraid 
there simply isnt sufficient evidence to enable me to uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
Summary 
Whilst Ive thought carefully about this complaint again, I see no reason to depart from my 
findings as set out earlier in my provisional decision. So for the reasons explained above, I 
think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that would 
enable me to uphold this complaint on the basis that the system was sold as self-funding.
Mr M has not provided sufficient evidence that the damage to his roof and internal leak was 
caused by a breach of contract on the part of P so I dont think Shawbrook needs to 
reimburse him for the costs he has incurred in relation to these issues. 
However, for the reasons set out above, (and as Shawbrook now appears to have accepted) 
Shawbrook needs to pay for the gutter repair, and the lost generation caused by the broken 
inverter and I reiterate below what it must do to put things right.
Putting this right
(If Shawbrook hasnt already done so) Shawbrook should pay to Mr M:
1. £150 for the gutter repair plus 8% interest*. 8% simple interest should be paid from 
the date Mr M made the payment to the date of settlement
2. Loss of generation from 30 December 2016 until the 18 April 2017  with 8% 
interest*. 8% simple interest should be paid from 18 April 2017 to the date of 
settlement. 3. £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused as explained above. 
*If Shawbrook considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part. Shawbrook Bank Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman