DRN-1658048
The complaint
Miss C complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mishandled an overseas transfer of money from 
her current account. 
What happened
In February 2019 Miss C was travelling abroad and wanted to transfer some money from her 
HSBC current account to pay for a trip. HSBC withheld the overseas payment and contacted 
Miss C to say it needed additional information before the payment could be released. Miss C 
paid for the trip using a credit card instead and asked her mother to contact HSBC to make 
sure the payment wasnt taken from her account as it was no longer necessary. When her 
mother called HSBC, she was assured the payment from her daughters current account 
wouldnt now be made. However, HSBC actioned the overseas payment despite that 
assurance and even though Miss C hadnt provided any additional information. So, she paid 
for the trip twice.
In May 2019, after Miss C returned to the UK, she asked HSBC to refund her the money. 
The amount was credited to her account in June 2019 but, due to the exchange rate, she 
received less money than shed originally transferred. Miss C complained to HSBC as she 
said it hadnt followed its own security checks, shed lost out financially due to the exchange 
rate and she had to spend time putting things right.
HSBC said it had withheld the overseas payment due to its normal fraud checks. It had tried 
to verbally confirm the payment with Miss C but it hadnt been able to contact her, so it had 
recalled the payment. But it had then reviewed the payment and made some additional 
checks which showed the payment didnt need to be held for fraud checks after all. So it had 
made the payment. It reimbursed a £25 charge for recalling the payment but didnt think it 
needed to do anything more. Miss C wasnt happy with HSBCs response and complained to 
this service. 
Our investigator thought HSBC had acted appropriately and didnt think it needed to do 
anything more. She said HSBC couldnt discuss anything with Miss Cs mother when she 
called as she didnt have authority to act on her daughters behalf. She thought HSBC had 
therefore acted correctly in releasing the funds when they realised further checks werent 
necessary, as it wasnt aware the funds were no longer required. Although the refunded 
payment was less than the original payment, our investigator said that Miss C had been 
given a disclaimer when initiating the payment that said if the payment was recalled there 
would be a potential difference due to the exchange rate and she would be liable for that. 
As Miss C remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me. I didnt agree with all of the 
investigators findings. So I sent a provisional decision to Miss C and HSBC to explain why I 
intended to come to a slightly different outcome to the investigator. Miss C didnt respond. 
HSBC accepted my decision. As such, my findings and decision below are substantially the 
same as set out in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC initially declined the overseas payment Miss C had requested because it needed 
further information before it could be released. It explained that this was part of its normal 
fraud checks and it needed to adhere strictly to its security procedures. Although it later 
reviewed that decision and decided it didnt need any further information from Miss C, that 
was only after it had made some additional checks. From the evidence Ive seen, I dont 
think HSBC has acted unfairly here. It made the decision to recall the payment in line with its 
policy and later made additional checks that allowed the payment to be made. Its for HSBC 
to decide which transactions need to be checked and I think it would be unfair for me to 
criticise it for the decisions it took to first withhold the payment and then release it. 
Miss C lost about £40 due to the difference in the exchange rate between the time the 
payment was made and when it was recalled. When she initiated the payment, she was told 
that she would be liable for any potential exchange rate difference if the payment was 
recalled. I can understand why Miss C is upset about the extra money shes had to pay but, 
in light of the above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask HSBC to refund her 
this amount. 
While Im satisfied HSBC acted correctly in withholding the overseas payment, and then 
releasing it, I dont think it provided a good service to Miss C when it assured her mother it 
wouldnt release the payment but then did so about a week later. Ive listened to the 
telephone call between Miss Cs mother and HSBC and its clear shes concerned the 
payment would be released unnecessarily. Towards the end of the call she asks, Can I 
absolutely confirm that the payment definitely wont go through? HSBCs call handler says, 
Yes, if youve had confirmation, it wont go through again, I can guarantee that. 
At the time Miss Cs mother spoke to HSBC, the payment hadnt been released. That 
happened about a week after the conversation. Should HSBC have stopped the payment 
from being made in light of the above telephone call? I dont think so. The call handler made 
it clear in the call that he couldnt do anything without Miss Cs consent and he encouraged 
her daughter to contact HSBC. Ive not seen any evidence that Miss C contacted HSBC 
before the payment was released. So, when HSBC later reviewed the payment and decided 
it could release it, there was nothing from Miss C to say it shouldnt do that. So I dont think it 
was unfair for HSBC to release the payment.
But I can understand why Miss C was so unhappy when she found out the payment had 
been made, despite assurances HSBC had given to her mother that it wouldnt be. The 
assurances it provided were unequivocal and it soon became clear they were wrong. As Ive 
said, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to release the payment. But I do think it was 
unreasonable to have given the assurances it did. Miss C and her mother understandably 
took those on face value and were therefore dismayed when they found out the payment 
had been made. By providing the assurances it did, HSBC raised expectations about what 
would happen next and misled Miss C into thinking the matter had been resolved when it 
hadnt. I think HSBC needs to do more to address the trouble and upset it caused.
Putting things right
While Im satisfied HSBC acted correctly in first withholding the overseas payment and then 
releasing it, I think it provided a poor service when it misled Miss C into thinking the money 
wouldnt be released when in fact it soon would be. Its that poor service HSBC hasnt 
acknowledged. HSBC has already waived a £25 fee it would normally charge for recalling an 
overseas payment. To put matters right, I think it should pay Miss C a further £100 to reflect 
the impact of the particular poor service Ive identified above.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and ask HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay Miss C a total of £100 for the trouble and upset it caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman