DRN-4500737
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax UK (Halifax) wont allow large 
cash withdrawals from his accounts.
What happened
Mr M has two accounts with Halifax, a basic bank account and an instant saver. He makes 
frequent cash withdrawals from each one. Between December 2022 and July 2023, he made 
28 cash withdrawals of £2,500 or more from his basic bank account; and ten of £2,500 or 
more from his instant access saver account.
Mr M complained. He said he was often refused cash withdrawals of £2,500 or more. There 
were sometimes problems with ID. He says this has caused issues with how he runs his 
business, and he often has to make cash withdrawals from his credit cards to pay his casual 
staff. 
Halifax said the branch manager confirmed that Mr Ms cash withdrawals up to £2,500 have 
never been refused, unless there was a problem with his ID. When making cash withdrawals 
over that figure, 24 hours notice is needed  to make sure the cash is available. Because Mr 
Ms complaint wasnt originally logged and dealt with when Mr M contacted them in 
December 2022, Halifax paid compensation of £100.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifaxs terms and conditions say 
that a customer can withdraw up to £2,500 per day, per account. But for higher amounts, 24 
hours notice is needed. The branch said that theyd met Mr Ms requests on most occasions 
where more than £2,500 was needed, and without notice being given. She went on to 
comment that it looked like Mr M was using his personal accounts for business purposes. 
She noted that Mr M said that Halifax had refused to open a business account, but that was 
a decision for Halifax. Because Halifax hadnt logged Mr Ms original complaint, Halifax had 
paid compensation of £100  and our investigator said that Halifax didnt need to do 
anymore. She didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M asked that an ombudsman looks at his complaint, and so it has come to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, let me say that both Halifax and our investigator commented on Mr Ms DSAR 
request  but that wasnt part of the complaint he brought to us, so I wont address that.
Similarly, during our investigation, Mr M has said Halifax has refused to open a business 
account for him  but again, he didnt refer this aspect to us in his original complaint, nor has 
he complained to Halifax about that, so I wont comment on that either.
Halifaxs terms and conditions for each of Mr Ms account do say he can withdraw up to 
£2,500 per account per day  this is the crux of his complaint. He says hes been denied that 
by the branch. I looked at the terms and conditions for Mr Ms account, and these say he can 
withdraw up to £2,500 per day, per account  but for more than that, 24 hours notice is 
needed. This is because the branch needs to ensure there is enough cash available to pay 
out.
Halifax spoke to the branch and they said that Mr M hasnt been denied such withdrawals, 
other that when they couldnt be satisfied with his ID. I looked at his bank statements, and 
these do show large and frequent cash withdrawals - between December 2022 and July 
2023, he made 28 cash withdrawals of £2,500 or more from his basic bank account; and ten 
of £2,500 or more from his instant access saver account. I can also see that on five 
occasions (30 January 2023, 2 March 2023, 10 March 2023, 24 March 2023 and 5 May 
2023), he withdrew £2,500 from each of his two accounts on the same day. So - it does 
appear that Halifax are meeting Mr Ms cash withdrawal requests. 
I would note that to make such large and frequent withdrawals  more than £90,000 on both 
accounts over 38 withdrawals in seven months  is unusual for a personal account; but it 
does appear that Halifax have met his cash needs over that period. 
Halifax said to us that it seems Mr M is using his personal accounts as a business account  
and separately, if he wishes to do that, he should speak to Halifax. But as I said that doesnt 
form part of his complaint to us, nor this decision.
I can see that in Mr Ms response to our investigators view, he thought she was awarding 
him compensation of £100 for what happened in connection with his complaint about cash 
withdrawals. But thats not the case  to be clear, £100 was paid by Halifax in April 2023 for 
not logging his original complaint in December 2022. And in this case, I think thats sufficient.
I can see that Mr M feels strongly about his complaint, and will be disappointed by my 
decision, but I couldnt find any evidence that suggests that Halifax are unreasonably 
denying Mr Ms cash withdrawals, and so I am not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman