DRN-3021193
The complaint
Mr C complains about his derivative trading account with Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB). 
He says that IB didnt correctly manage the closure of his positions during a margin call on 
his account and didnt allow him to manage the positions himself. Mr C says this caused him 
increased losses.
What happened
Mr C opened a number of E-Mini S&P 500 option positions. He had sold 20 put options with 
a 2,700 strike price and bought 40 put options at a 2,590 strike price  which Mr C calls the 
put spread. As well as this he had sold four call options at a strike price of 3,080 and bought 
four call options with a strike price of 3,100  which Mr C calls the call spread.
In order to open these positions, Mr C needed to provide an initial margin of just under 
$29,000 and in order to keep them open, he needed his account equity to be above the 
maintenance margin of $23,124.55.
As Mr Cs account fell below the maintenance margin, IB issued a margin call on his 
account. In carrying out this margin call, IB closed the short call and put positions and later 
closed the long positions.
Mr C doesnt think IB fairly executed this margin call as he says these options were paired 
into a spread trading strategy and ought to have been closed as pairs, rather than the short 
positions being closed first. Mr C says that by the time the long positions were closed the 
option prices had moved against him causing him a higher loss than had the options been 
closed as a pair. During this time Mr C says that he tried to place some orders to manage 
these positions, but these were rejected by IB. Due to this, he said he also tried to call the 
trading desk but this call went unanswered after 30 minutes and so wasnt able to trade.
IB looked into the concerns raised by Mr C but didnt agree that it treated him unfairly in how 
it closed his positions. In its response, IB said that as the account fell into a margin call it had 
discretion in how it closed positions to bring the account back within the margin 
requirements. As Mr C didnt agree with IBs response to his complaint, he asked our service 
to investigate further.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt think that IB had treated 
Mr C unfairly. He explained that IB didnt have any obligations to take into account any 
particular strategies when closing positions during a margin call. Mr C didnt agree and said, 
in summary, that IB had stopped him from being able to manage his account so he couldnt 
trade or close positions. Had IB have let him trade, hed have closed the positions himself in 
a better way than IB did  there wasnt anything in the agreements that allowed IB to freeze 
his account or prevent him from taking action during a margin call.
Mr C also said he didnt agree with IBs methodology of closing his positions and asked why 
it waited hours between closing the short and long positions  this meant around $10,000 of 
profit fell to around $500, he thought this was negligent. And he pointed out that IBs platform 
hadnt been functional for nearly two hours so hed tried to contact the trading desk for help. 
 
Our investigator didnt think that Mr Cs account had been frozen, it was just that his trades 
were rejected because the account equity was too low and he reiterated that he thought it 
was for IB to decide how to execute the margin call. He also noted that IBs 
acknowledgement of technical issues with the platform had been four days prior to the day 
Mr C was closed out, so that hadnt had any effect on what happened here. 
As Mr C remained unhappy, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mr C feels about his complaint. Hes provided a detailed 
explanation why he feels that IB hasnt closed the positions in the way he feels it should 
have. I appreciate what happened has incurred him a significant loss. But taking everything 
into account, Im afraid Ive not found that it would be fair to hold IB responsible for the 
losses Mr C has told us about. I know that will be disappointing for Mr C so Ill explain why. 
The terms of Mr Cs agreement with IB in trading on its platform say that Mr Cs account is 
execution-only. As Mr C understands, this means that he would be responsible for the trades 
he opens and monitoring those to ensure sufficient margin is to maintain these positions. 
On 9 March 2020, during significant market volatility as markets opened, Mr Cs account fell 
into a margin deficit. This is where the account balance along with the open profit and losses 
on his positions is less than the amount needed to keep those positions open. Part 9 of the 
customer agreement sets out these requirements as well as setting out that IB can liquidate 
positions to bring the account back within the margin requirements.
IB provides further detail of what the liquidation process entails under Part 27 (as well as 
Part 25B(2)) of the terms. This states that when Mr Cs account falls under the margin 
requirements, IB can:
liquidate, sell, or close-out any or any part of Customer's Transactions or open 
positions or the cash, security or other property in any of Customer's accounts, 
whether carried individually or jointly with others, at any time, in any such manner 
(including by the entry of offsetting transactions)
I appreciate Mr C acknowledges these points though  he recognises his account fell below 
the margin maintenance requirement, and the crux of his concerns is instead around how IB 
handled the close out. He says IB ought to have closed the option pairs as pairs and this 
wouldve limited the losses he incurred. But the risks disclosure document did make it clear 
that IB wasnt obligated to close these positions in any particular way. The document said:
You are not entitled to choose which securities or futures contracts or other assets in 
your account(s) are liquidated or sold to meet a margin call. IB has the right to decide 
which positions to sell in order to protect its interests.
I see why Mr C thinks it wouldve been in his best interests to close the pairs rather than in 
the order and timeframe that IB did. However, IB doesnt say that it will take into 
consideration trading strategies when closing positions under a margin call and is clear that 
it will close positions as it sees fit. Mr C says he wasnt able to decide which positions to close, IBs platform rejected orders he 
tried to place and that his calls to the trading desk went unanswered. But IB has explained 
these orders were rejected due to the margin call. At this time, the only way Mr C could 
place any trade would be to add further funds to the account. Mr C says he didnt want to 
add further funds and so, once the account fell into the margin deficit it was within IBs 
discretion on how to resolve that. While I appreciate the frustrations in not having his call to 
the trading desk answered, even if Mr Cs call was answered, he wouldnt have been able to 
trade this way either. This wouldve been because he would only have been able to place 
such trades if hed added further funds to his account  which he says he didnt want to do. 
I appreciate Mr C may have wanted to be able to make trading decisions to resolve the 
margin deficit himself. But once the account fell into this deficit, without making further 
payments into the account, IB was able to decide how to manage the positions Mr C had 
open at the time. 
I do sympathise with Mr Cs position as I can see hes lost a lot of money, but from 
everything Ive seen and for the reasons explained above, I dont think the way IB handled 
Mr Cs margin call was unfair or unreasonable. So, it follows that Mr Cs losses are not 
something for which IB can be held responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman