DRN-2953799
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the way that American Express Services Europe Limited trading as 
American Express (Amex) has dealt with her attempts to try and find out about charges on 
her account.
Mrs O is represented in her complaint by Mr G. He wants Amex to explain what the charges 
are for and stop chasing Mrs O for payment.
What happened
Mrs O was unhappy when her bank told her that direct debit payments made to Amex were 
for taxes. As Mrs O didnt pay tax, she couldnt understand how this had happened.
Mr G learned that the payments were regular monthly amounts of just under £14 made by 
Amex in favour of a business I will refer to as H. Mr G says that when he contacted H, it 
told him that Mrs O was making payments via her bank, not Amex.
Mrs O asked her bank to cancel the direct debit in favour of Amex. Mr G says a dispute was 
raised with Amex in around August 2020.
Mr G says that Amex was abusive and said that it would continue to charge Mrs Os 
account. Mr G was unhappy that Amex wouldnt discuss Mrs Os account with him as he has 
a lasting power of attorney (LPOA) for her. Mr G explained that Amex wanted him to supply 
a copy of the LPOA which had been certified on each page. Mr G said hed already supplied 
what he was legally obliged to and that Amexs request was excessive.
Amex didnt agree that it had made any errors. It explained to Mr G what it needed to see in 
order to register the LPOA.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Os complaint be upheld. He thought it was 
reasonable of Amex to ask for the LPOA to be properly certified before accepting it.
The investigator said that the payments were made to H and that Amex wasnt charging   
Mrs O for taxes but was collecting payment by direct debit to pay the full monthly balance. 
The investigator said that it was reasonable of Amex to ask Mrs O for repayment as there 
was an outstanding balance to pay. 
Mr G says that he and Mrs O are unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He is 
unhappy with Amexs refusal to discuss matters with him or Mrs O. Mr G says the late 
payment charges and interest charged while they were disputing the charges were 
exorbitant. 
Mr G says that Mrs Os bank told her that the claim for payment from Amex was for taxes 
and that H said the subscription wasnt paid for by Amex.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything the parties have given to me.
I should explain that this service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses that 
we cover. Its also not our role to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes. These 
aspects fall to the regulator  in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
But it is our role to consider whether a business has been fair and reasonable in the way it 
has applied its policies and procedures to the individuals circumstances. If I think Amex has 
done anything wrong, I would look to try and put Mrs O back in the position she wouldve 
been if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I can award modest compensation if I think its 
fair. But any award of compensation would be made to Mrs O as the customer of Amex and 
not Mr G as the third-party representing her.
It seems to me a large part of this complaint stems from the way in which Amex responded 
to Mr Gs attempts to discuss Mrs Os account. He wasnt happy giving Amex a certified 
copy of the LPOA. Mr G considered that the copy hed supplied was enough. 
Although Mr G says other banks accepted the LPOA in the format he provided, that doesnt 
mean that Amex must do the same. As far as Im aware  and from looking at the websites 
of other credit card companies and banks  its standard practice to ask for either the original 
or certified LPOA. So, I cant reasonably say that Amex has done anything wrong by asking 
Mr G to provide identification and a certified copy of the LPOA. And Im satisfied that Amex 
offered Mrs O an alternative way of giving Mr G authority to discuss her account when it sent 
out a third-party authorisation to sign and return. 
I can see that Mr G has given this service some conflicting information about the monthly 
payment to H. On the one hand, Mr G told us that he accepts the Amex charge was for H 
which is why he sent a cheque to Amex to cover the cost. But hes also unhappy that H has 
said that the payments werent received from Mrs Os Amex account.
Amex has sent us copy statements for Mrs Os account for the period between August 2020 
and July 2021. These show payments made to H in July, August and September 2020 
(although the September payment to H was returned). Based on this evidence, I cant 
reasonably find that Amex wasnt making payments to H. If Mrs O believes that H was also 
taking payment from her bank, she would have to take this up with her bank or H.
I understand that Mrs O is unhappy about the late payment charges and interest that Amex 
applied to her account while it was in dispute. Just because there was a dispute doesnt 
automatically mean that Amex must suspend interest or charges. I can see that once       
Mrs Os account was in default, Amex stopped charging late fees. And no more interest has 
been applied since April 2021. As I dont consider Amex applied the fees incorrectly, I dont 
require it to refund anything  particularly as it has confirmed that its not asking Mrs O to 
repay the outstanding balance.
Mr G is very unhappy about Amexs response to his and Mrs Os attempts to find out about 
the charges on her account. As Ive said above, Amex was limited in what it could tell Mr G 
about Mrs Os account because it wasnt able to register the LPOA and didnt have written 
third-party authorisation. This meant that some of the correspondence between Mr G and 
Amex doesnt go very far in discussing the charges themselves. Amex said it could discuss the account on the phone with Mr G, if Mrs O gave her authority 
and was in the same room. The call notes indicate that calls made in mid-October 2020 were 
disconnected and authority wasnt given by Mrs O.
It looks as though Amex did speak with Mr G in early November 2020 after Mrs O gave 
permission. Amex agreed to refund the late payment charge but told Mr G that it couldnt set 
up a dispute on Mrs Os behalf without the LPOA from him. Amex did clarify that the charges 
werent taxes. So, I cant find that Amex refused to discuss the account with Mr G on this 
occasion. Im satisfied that Amex suggested that if Mrs O didnt recognise the charges, she 
or Mr G should speak with H to find out more. This seems fair.
Amex explained that without registering the LPOA or signed third-party authorisation it would 
need to take Mrs Os authority every time Mr G wanted to speak about the account on the 
phone. I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr G  particularly given the restrictions brought 
about by the pandemic. But I cant find that Amex was wrong to take this approach as it had 
given Mrs O other options to allow it to discuss the account with Mr G. 
Although Mr G says that Amex refused to discuss the account with Mrs O, this isnt reflected 
in the notes that it has given to us. This makes it hard for me to find that Amex did something 
wrong. 
Mr G has raised concerns about the frequency and tone of Amexs contact with him and   
Mrs O. Amex doesnt have the call recordings, but Ive seen some call notes from October 
and November 2020. The majority of these relate to incoming calls from Mr G. I cant see 
evidence of daily calls made by Amex  instead the only outgoing calls appear on 15 and 18 
November 2020. Its possible that some other calls were made but not recorded on the 
notes, but I dont find that Amex harassed Mrs O. 
As the account was in arrears, I cant find that Amex was wrong to write to Mrs O. Although I 
can understand it was upsetting to receive letters about the account, I dont consider they 
were threatening in nature.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Amex made a mistake or treated Mrs O unfairly. I appreciate 
that my decision is likely to disappoint Mr G and Mrs O. But I hope the fact that Amex is no 
longer asking Mrs O to repay the outstanding balance gives her some comfort.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman