DRN-2010705
The complaint
Mr C complains about the suitability of the investment that Logic Investments Limited (Logic) 
recommended for some of the funds within his self-invested personal pension (SIPP)  
following the transfer of his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits. 
What happened
Mr C met with a financial adviser in 2017 and agreed to transfer the benefits from his final 
salary OPS to a SIPP. The adviser that recommended the transfer then suggested Mr C 
engaged Logic to invest the funds on the basis that they represented in her view a balanced 
value for money professional investment advisory service. 
In July 2017 Logic gathered information about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives and 
recommended that he invested part of his SIPP funds according to his medium attitude to 
risk (ATR). Out of the SIPP value of £628,972 the investment was for £126,260, some 20% 
of the total assets, and was made into a fixed income fund. However, the fund in the form of 
that particular portfolio composition was only launched in that same month. 
On 4 January 2019 Logics investment committee reviewed the funds performance and, 
noting it had lost 16% in value, decided to seek alternative investment funds. It explained 
that, following a conversation with the fund manager, it learnt that the underperformance was 
due to fixed running costs of the fund having a disproportionate negative effect due to a lack 
of assets under management within it.
On 13 February 2019 Mr C sold his holding in the fund and lost £24,270 of his original 
investment amount.
 
So, in October 2019 Mr C complained. He said he was unhappy with the loss that his SIPP 
had suffered from that particular fund and wanted compensation for the loss. He didnt think 
that Logic had undertaken sufficient due diligence before recommending the fund. At the 
time of his complaint Mr Cs SIPP was valued at £589,490.
Logic didnt uphold the complaint. It said it didnt think that the recommended fund breached 
Mr Cs requirements according to the information it gathered. It said it had undertaken 
sufficient due diligence before recommending the fund and continued to do so following the 
recommendation. It also said it had tried to gain compensation from the fund for its 
underperformance. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us. He explained that the 
Citywire rating for the fund was poor and its initial fee was high  which led to later 
problems as the fund didnt grow quickly enough to offset the fees. He said he was also 
unaware that the fund was based in Luxembourg. He didnt think it was right for Logic to 
recommend that he invested 20% of his SIPP into a fund that had question marks around its 
viability. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He made the following points:
We dont usually uphold complaints that are purely about performance, so hed 
considered the suitability of the recommendation that Logic had given.
It wasnt unreasonable for Mr C to invest 20% of his portfolio into a mainly bond 
fund  especially as Mr C had a medium ATR. Some risk was necessary to achieve 
the capital growth Mr C had as an objective. He thought Logic had explained this risk 
to Mr C.
Mr C had been made aware that the fund was new  but wasnt made aware of the 
specific risk of the fund not attracting enough new money to reduce its ongoing costs. 
But Mr C was aware of the risk that he might lose money from investing in general.
It would have been difficult for Logic to have anticipated the specific problems the 
fund endured. Based on the due diligence it undertook this was unlikely to have been 
a problem Logic should have foreseen and wouldnt have made any difference to its 
recommendation.
Mr C said he wanted Logic to cover half of his losses. He wasnt complaining about the 
funds performance but about the charges that arose from a smaller than anticipated fund 
size. He said that Logic had subsequently told him that it wouldnt recommend that particular 
fund again. 
The investigator reiterated that he didnt believe Logic could have anticipated the specific 
problem that arose. He remained of the opinion that this was a fund performance issue and 
was the responsibility of the fund managers. Hed also considered the question of whether 
Mr C should have been advised to invest more than the £30,000 hed agreed as a maximum 
amount in any one fund. But he thought the level of investment had been agreed between 
Logic and Mr C in a telephone call and he thought it was suitable. 
 
Mr C didnt agree. He said Logic had been negligent in not considering the management risk 
of a new fund. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so its been 
passed to me for a review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I have some sympathy for Mr Cs position here as his investment fell in value 
and he sold it at a loss. But I dont think Logic did anything wrong in this case, which I know 
is an outcome that will disappoint Mr C  so Ill explain my reasoning. 
The suitability of the recommendation to invest in the fixed income fund
When Mr C was introduced to Logic it opened a trading account for him and gathered some 
basic information upon which it made it recommendations to invest his SIPP funds. Logic 
established that Mr C had:
Limited investment knowledge and experience.
Sought capital growth from his SIPP.
A medium ATR. 
On this basis one recommendation Logic made was for Mr C to invest around 20% of his 
SIPP into a fixed income fund  which was generally a medium rated fund.
 The fund overview document from May 2017 explained that the fund was actively managed 
and invests in a broad range of underlying securities including government, corporate bonds 
and high yield bonds. And it noted that The funds objective is to provide stable growth over 
the medium to long-term and outperform the fund benchmark. 
In my view, having looked at the fund fact sheet and the key investor information document, 
there was nothing contained in the information about the fund to suggest it wasnt suitable 
for Mr C. The overall composition of the fund was across gilts and bonds  mainly in the UK 
and, other than the specific risk of there being insufficient overall investment to offset the 
charges, it doesnt seem to be high risk. Its a fixed income bond fund, which ordinarily would 
be deemed to be fairly medium-low risk. And the stated fund objective was consistent with 
that, so Im satisfied that the underlying fund was suitable for Mr Cs objectives. 
The only note of any concern was that the fund, in this particular form, was only just being 
launched and had no performance history. I dont think investment into a fund shouldnt be 
considered just because the fund is new, but I would expect Mr C to have been made aware 
of this fact and that the fund was just a part of his overall portfolio and fitted in with his 
overall attitude to risk.
 
Even if I were to conclude that the lack of track record was a specific risk which pushed the 
investment into a higher risk profile than a run of the mill bond fund, I would still conclude, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, that the investment, with its slightly elevated risk, still fitted 
into the rest of the investments within the portfolio.
The issue of the due diligence
But I appreciate Mr C, while he hasnt complained about the overall suitability of his SIPP, 
has complained about the lack of due diligence that was carried out on the fund, specifically 
with regards to the fixed running costs which ultimately werent covered and led to the 
negative impact on the net asset value of the fund. Mr C said there was an agreement to 
only invest 5% of his SIPP value into any one fund and he only received a two page 
summary of the fund before he agreed to invest. He said that, despite the due diligence 
Logic said it had carried out, it didnt take him long to discover the fund was rated bottom in a 
Citywire chart. 
Im not aware that the regulator has set out guidance for a standard due diligence test that 
needs to be carried out before a firm can recommend a fund or investment portfolio. The 
main test when giving advice, as noted within the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 
is that a firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client But I think that suitability includes the necessary 
level of due diligence to be carried out on a fund when assessing its suitability. 
I note that Logic used its own investment checklist to evidence the due diligence it carried 
out with regards to this fixed income fund. And Ive seen copies of the main documents it 
used to make the decision that the fund was deemed to be an appropriate investment. I 
havent seen anything to make me think there was any obvious issues with investment into 
the fund or that it carried any unusual risks  outside of the normal risk of the fluctuating 
values of an investment.
 
Looking at the key investor information sheet, the funds objectives were set out along with 
its risk profile (category 4-medium risk) and the charges. So I think Mr C was made aware of 
the main aspects of the fund. It was also noted that the sub-fund does not have sufficient 
data to provide a useful indication of past performance to investors. So it was clear that this was a new fund, with no history of performance, and carried some additional risks because 
of that fact  but I havent seen anything to suggest that these risks werent explained or 
confirmed to Mr C.
In support of that conclusion Ive also listened to the telephone calls Mr C had with Logics 
adviser prior to the agreement to invest. The adviser confirmed that Logic had been given 
the Green light, we can invest in it, have you got any queries or concerns? He then went 
through the key facts. He covered off all the possible risks of underperformance such as the 
bond market falling and the risk of some of the bonds. But there was no suggestion of any 
guarantees of performance and he explained that the fund value could fall as well as rise. He 
read out the paragraph about the lack of data being unable to provide a useful indication of 
past performance, although he explained that the bonds themselves werent new and did 
have historical return data, but the particular composition of the bonds within this fund was 
new. 
So again, I think the main aspects of the fund were set out for Mr C and this included the 
various risks that might occur. I havent seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that Logic 
didnt undertake due diligence around the fund or failed to make Mr C aware of the 
advantages and disadvantages of investing into it. Ultimately the problem with the fund was 
that it failed to attract enough ongoing investment to cover its initial fixed costs  so its value 
fell. But I think the risk of this happening was covered within the general overall risk warnings 
Mr C was given, and in any case I wouldnt have expected Logics due diligence to be so 
specific as to outline this possibility of this particular outcome. 
Logic wouldnt have been able to foresee that this problem would arise when it 
recommended the fund  although I think it did draw attention to the overall possibility of the 
fund losing value because of the various risks involved in investing. But I cant reasonably 
say that Logic didnt undertake sufficient due diligence based on this one particular 
sequence of events which I dont think it could have anticipated happening from what 
research and analysis it did of the fund and its managers.
Logics research told it that if a Mr C wanted a similarly diversified and actively managed 
portfolio he should expect to be charged twice at much from Logics own platform. So Logic 
thought this fund represented good value in terms of relative costs. From the information Ive 
seen that would seem to a reasonable basis on which to put forward its recommendation. I 
would then have expected Logic to set out its recommendation with all the risks and benefits 
involved using the results of the due diligence test it carried out  which I think it did here. 
Logic identified that the fund was new and therefore didnt have previous performance 
history information which Mr C may have hoped to see. But overall, I dont think I can say 
that Logic didnt carry out due diligence on the fund.
Mr C also said he wasnt told that the fund was based in Luxembourg and didnt have UK 
management. And he said that, at the time of advice, the funds under management were 
only £12 million but he wasnt told the fund manager wanted to get over £50 million  which 
with investors paying 3% to invest meant the fund wasnt viable going forward. And I can 
understand why Mr C might consider these pieces of information as being important for him 
to decide if the fund was appropriate for him to invest in. But I think the information about the 
way the fund was structured and where it was based was included with the investor 
information sheets, so I think Mr C ought to have been aware of that.
But it wouldnt have been possible to know how many people were going to invest in the 
fund going forward, so I think to have questioned its viability at the beginning would only 
have been possible with the benefit of hindsight. 
The overall composition of the SIPPIn its terms of business document Logics SIPP advisory service was described as follows: 
you will be advised not only on single transactions, but on your portfolio as a whole. And 
ongoing advice, based on your portfolio as a whole.
At the time of the advice Mr Cs SIPP held 43% in cash, 41% in bonds and around 16% in 
equities. So I think his plan was invested within a low- medium risk rated environment. Logic 
has said that Mr Cs original financial adviser recommended that he should build up his 
equity content gradually to take advantage of future opportunities, and Ive seen that a 
month later the cash content of the SIPP had decreased to 26% while the equity content had 
risen to 33%. So I think that represented a broad investment across a number of areas 
which, overall, demonstrated a medium risk profile.
And looking at the individual investments I cant see any evidence of any unusual or non-
mainstream type investments  which might have carried an even higher risk within the 
portfolio. It would seem that the equity content was balanced out by other lower risk 
investments, which suggest to me that the overall portfolio wasnt unsuitable. It is after all 
quite common for there to be higher risk investments in an overall medium or balanced risk 
portfolio. And if those individual investments lose money, they might be moderated by gains 
elsewhere. So looking at Mr Cs SIPP, Im satisfied that it was invested in line with his overall 
ATR and wasnt unsuitable. 
However, weve asked Mr C if he was concerned about the overall suitability of his SIPP 
within the model Logic operated, and he told us that he was only concerned with the fixed 
income fund that had lost value during the period he remain invested. So it wouldnt be fair 
for me to make further judgements on the suitability of the overall portfolio composition.
 
But Mr C has questioned why, when Logic said it would only invest 5% of his SIPP into a 
single investment, it invested 20% into the fixed income fund. So Ive looked at Mr Cs initial 
application form which did say that he had a limit of £30,000 that he would be prepared to 
risk on any individual trade. Theres no evidence to say that an agreement to invest no more 
than 5% specifically in any fund was agreed, but Ive taken the £30,000  being 5% of the 
SIPP value at that time, as evidence of such a discussion and agreement regarding this 
particular investment, so I can understand Mr Cs point here.
Logic has explained that the £30,000 was an agreement for the total amount Mr C could 
afford to lose from an overall investment, but Im not sure I agree with its interpretation of 
that statement within the application form. But I have taken into account here that Logic 
made Mr C aware of the amount it was recommending that he invest, and Mr C agreed to 
that size of investment. And crucially it was still only 20% of his overall SIPP into a medium 
risk investment which, in my view, was appropriate for Mr C considering his ATR. Even 
though Mr C says this was too much to invest into a new fund, as Ive said previously, I still 
believe it was suitable for his ATR and just because it was a new fund shouldnt have 
precluded Logic from recommending investment into it, should it believe that it was 
appropriate for Mr Cs overall objectives. 
What would Mr C have done if the question of the fund not covering its fixed costs been 
explained clearly?
Logic needed to find a suitable investment for Mr C  taking into account his circumstances 
and objectives. It was responsible for ensuring that the investment was suitable for him and 
his wider portfolio  which I think it did here. So I also have to consider if Mr C would have invested, if the specific undisclosed risk of the 
fund not attracting enough investment had in fact been disclosed. And without the benefit of 
hindsight I dont think that further knowledge of that specific risk would have put Mr C off 
investing. I say that because there was no performance history available at the time of the 
recommendation so Mr C couldnt have known how the fund would perform. I think he would 
have accepted Logics recommendation, even if the specific risk was fully explained, as it 
wouldnt have been obvious that this would be a problem going forward. Having listened to 
the telephone conversation Mr C had with Logics adviser I dont think the insertion of that 
extra information would have prevented him from agreeing to invest. 
Of course I cant be certain of that fact, Ive drawn that conclusion based on what I think was, 
on balance, likely to have happened. But even if I am wrong, I am satisfied that the fixed 
income fund Logic recommended was suitable given Mr Cs situation and ATR. And, from 
the evidence Ive seen, I think it undertook reasonable due diligence before it made the 
recommendation. Im not persuaded that the specific risk Mr C has referred to was 
something that Logic could have reasonably foreseen or wasnt at least covered to some 
extent in the general risk warnings about investments as a whole.     
 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman