DRN-2011084
The complaint
Mrs D says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs D took out in 2002.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the policy for Mrs D, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But 
it did have to give her information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading  so 
she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
I cant see that AXA gave Mrs D clear enough information about the policys key exclusions. 
And I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs D, as at the point of sale shed only been working 
for a short time and had been out of work for several months before that. The policy 
excluded unemployment claims unless the customer had been in continuous employment for 
at least six months, with any gap in employment being two weeks or less. So Mrs D wouldnt 
have been considered to be in continuous employment under the policy terms, and couldnt 
have claimed if shed lost her job in the coming months.
Given that Mrs D had only recently started her job at the time of the sale, there wasnt any 
reasonable guarantee that shed be there for six months. But in the meantime, shed be 
paying for a PPI policy that didnt protect her, and that she couldnt claim on if she lost her 
job in the foreseeable future.
If AXA had given Mrs D enough information about the exclusions, I dont think she wouldve 
bought the policy. So I think Mrs D has lost out because of the flaws in this sale. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs D in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt had the PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.) AXA should find out how much Mrs D would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs D owes and what she would have 
owed.
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.
B.) If  when AXA works out what Mrs D would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs D paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs D wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) AXA should tell Mrs D what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman