DRN-2679875
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that when she and her husband, Mr B, (who has since passed away) 
took out their equity release mortgage with Norwich Union (now Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited), it was never explained to her that there would be an early repayment charge (ERC) 
other than a £300 fee. Mrs B is also unhappy at what she says is jargon in the 
documentation and the lack of transparency about the ERC, and about the interest rate 
applied to the loan, which she says is too high.
In addition, Mrs B says there is no evidence of any fact-find being completed in 2003 to 
show she and Mr B had only £25 per month disposable income, which should have raised 
concerns. 
Finally, Mrs B believes Aviva has sold on her information to another equity release business.
To settle the complaint, Mrs B would like Aviva to reduce the interest rate and the ERC, and 
to explain how another equity release business obtained her details.
Mrs B has been assisted in bringing the complaint by her daughter, Mrs T.
What happened
On 24 June 2003 Mr and Mrs B were given advice by Aviva about an equity release 
mortgage. At the time Mr and Mrs B had an existing mortgage of £36,000 which they told 
Aviva they wanted to pay off. 
It appears from the documentation that what prompted Mr and Mrs B to talk to Aviva was 
that their endowment policy, due to mature in October 2006 and originally projected to yield 
£20,000, would fall far short of this sum. Mr and Mrs B had worked out that paying the 
premiums of £177 per month would be of less benefit than surrendering the policy 
immediately with a surrender value of £9,000. As a result, Mr and Mrs B decided to clear 
their mortgage with an equity release, which would free up disposable income and improve 
their standard of living.
At the time, taking into account mortgage repayments and endowment premiums, as well as 
living expenses, Mr and Mrs Bs net monthly income was £1,200, and it is recorded that the 
net monthly expenditure was £1,175. Mr and Mrs B decided to weigh up their options of 
either surrendering the policy or making it fully paid up, or even selling it on the traded 
endowment market. 
Aviva recommended a Flexible Cash Release Plan of £33,000 (the maximum amount 
Mr and Mrs B could borrow on their property valuation), at a fixed interest rate of 7.29%, 
secured on their home by a mortgage. In common with this type of mortgage, no repayments 
are due to be made; interest rolls up over the term of the loan. It is repayable on the death of 
the surviving borrower, or when the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing care. If 
the mortgage is repaid early, an early repayment charge (ERC) applies. But the terms of the 
mortgage provide that it can be transferred onto another property and if that property is of a 
lower value, part of the equity release mortgage will need to be repaid. In that situation, no 
ERC will apply.
A requirement of the mortgage was that Mr and Mrs B had to take advice from their own 
solicitors  not Avivas. After doing so, the mortgage completed on 16 October 2003. I 
understand Mr and Mrs B paid off their existing mortgage of £36,000, making up the balance 
from their own resources. 
I am very sorry to note that Mr B passed away in November 2016. Since then the mortgage 
has been held in the sold name of Mrs B.
On 8 April 2019 Mrs B raised a complaint with Aviva. Shed recently received a redemption 
statement and was shocked to learn that the ERC would be over £28,000. Mrs B said shed 
been told when the mortgage was taken out that the ERC would be £300 and there had 
been no explanation about any ERC linked to gilt yields.
Mrs B was also unhappy about the interest rate applied to the loan, and felt she and Mr B 
had been persuaded to take out a fixed rate when a variable rate would have been less 
punitive for them.
A further complaint was raised because Mrs B had been contacted by another business 
which sold equity release products. She believed Aviva had sold her details on.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied that the ERC had been explained to 
Mr and Mrs B at the time the mortgage was taken out and that it was also detailed in the 
documentation. Aviva also noted Mr and Mrs B had taken advice from their own solicitors. 
Aviva also explained that the product it offered with a variable interest rate was linked to the 
Retail Prices Index, and that this would have resulted in faster erosion of the equity in the 
property than the fixed rate Mr and Mrs B had decided to take.
Overall Aviva was satisfied the loan hadnt been mis-sold. Aviva also clarified that it did not 
sell on customers information.
Dissatisfied with Avivas response, Mrs B raised her complaint with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that the mortgage hadnt been mis-sold, or that the documentation 
lacked transparency. He was also unable to find Aviva responsible for Mrs B having been 
contacted by another business.
Mrs T responded on behalf of Mrs B. She did not understand why the investigator made 
reference to a mortgage, as she had no idea if this referred to her mothers case. Mrs T also 
said that Aviva was asked for the greys test to be considered. Mrs T said that her mothers 
financial autonomy had been taken away, due to excessive fees and that in a free market 
economy, this was daylight robbery.
The investigator asked Mrs T to clarify what the greys test was, as neither he nor 
colleagues he asked about this had ever heard of it. Mrs T said that In consumer law there 
is a greys list grey list of 20 terms, which may be considered to be unfair. The terms on this 
list are not automatically unfair but it is likely that in most circumstances they will be viewed 
as unfair. [sic]
Mrs T said that the failure of the investigator to consider the grey list makes her question 
the impartiality of the Financial Ombudsman Service and that the reasonable question for the greys list/test to be looked at have been overlooked, in the first instance by Aviva and 
now the Ombudsman. [sic]
Because the questions Mrs B and Mrs T had raised hadnt been answered to their 
satisfaction, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sale of the product: When these products were first offered to the market from the late 
1980s onwards, it was envisaged that there was the potential for family members to be 
unhappy once they learned that their relatives had taken out an equity release mortgage, or 
for borrowers to regret the erosion of the equity in their properties. Precisely because of this, 
even before mortgage regulation came into effect on 31 October 2004, the sales process for 
these products has always been very robust, with borrowers required to take advice from a 
solicitor, as well as a financial advisor. (In this case, the financial adviser worked for Aviva, 
and sold only Aviva products. There is nothing untoward about this, as it was disclosed at 
the outset.) 
The mortgage was sold in line with the requirements of the code of practice of the Safe 
Home Income Plans (SHIP) (now known as the Equity Release Council) and in line with the 
Mortgage Code (which was a voluntary code of conduct for mortgage lenders and advisers).
There is a detailed fact-find which contains information provided by Mr and Mrs B about their 
circumstances. This shows that, with their existing mortgage and other expenses, they had 
available disposable income of £25 per month. Their decision to take out the equity release 
mortgage was as a result of their concerns about the performance of their endowment 
policy. Mr and Mrs B were aware thered be a substantial shortfall from the projected 
£20,000 the policy had originally been anticipated to pay out, and they wanted to pay off 
their mortgage and free up income. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied the recommendation for an equity release mortgage was 
reasonable. It allowed Mr and Mrs B to pay off their mortgage (with them having to find about 
£3,000 from their own resources), and would increase their income for their day-to-day living 
expenses.
Im not sure why Mrs B thinks it should have raised concerns that, before they took out the 
mortgage, she and Mr B only had £25 per month disposable income. In fact, it was precisely 
this situation which resulted in them taking out the equity release mortgage, in order to free 
up their income. There are no affordability requirements for equity release mortgages, 
because no monthly payments are due. A very low disposable income is, in fact, persuasive 
that, with their previous mortgage and other commitments, Mr and Mrs B had insufficient 
income to enable them to manage comfortably.
The fact the Aviva mortgage didnt complete until October 2003 suggests Mr and Mrs B gave 
careful thought to this before they decided to proceed.
Im satisfied that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold and that the recommendation was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, taking into account all the information they provided to Aviva 
about the financial circumstances and available resources. Im satisfied the fixed interest rate and the ERC were explained and drawn to Mrs Bs attention, and I will discuss these in 
more detail below.
Interest rate: The interest rate was fixed at 7.29% for the duration of the mortgage, and this 
is explained in the documentation. The advisors letter dated 26 June 2003 says: 
I confirm that we have fully discussed both the Index-linked Cash Release Plan and 
the Flexible Cash Release Plan, and that you have decided to take your equity 
release on the Flexible Cash Release Plan basis because you preferred the fact that 
the rate of interest on your loan is fixed for its duration with the Flexible Cash 
Release Plan
Aviva has explained that the Index-linked Cash Release Plan is linked to the Retail Prices 
Index. Looking at how that index has moved since 2003 (when it was 183.5) to 2020 (295.4), 
I think its likely that if Mr and Mrs B had opted for the Index-Linked Cash Release Plan, 
Mrs Bs overall debt would have been much higher than it is under the fixed rate option she 
and Mr B chose.
I appreciate the interest rate is high in comparison with todays mortgage interest rates, but I 
dont have any power to order Aviva to reduce it. The interest rate reflects the commercial 
fact that Aviva has lent money on the understanding that it will receive no return on it for 
many years, and so the product is priced to reflect this.
The ERC: In general ERCs are payable if a consumer wants to repay their loan or mortgage 
early where the product includes a fixed interest rate. Financial businesses borrow large 
slices of fixed rate money, to lend on to their customers. That involves cost to the business if 
the customer repays early, leaving them with a fixed rate liability still to support. 
I agree that the way the ERC is worked out is complicated, but that is why there is such a 
detailed explanation of it in the documentation. Its also why Mr and Mrs B were required to 
take advice from their own solicitors about the product prior to going ahead with it. This type 
of ERC, linked to gilt yields, is not uncommon for equity release mortgages. Im satisfied that 
the existence of the ERC and how it worked was drawn to Mrs Bs attention by Aviva. Im 
also satisfied that it is written in language that is plain and intelligible.
The documentation provided at the point of sale sets out clearly the circumstances in which 
an ERC might be payable, and how this will be calculated. The adviser confirmed in the 
letter dated 26 June 2003 that Mr and Mrs B should read the documentation and to contact 
him if there was anything they didnt understand or were unclear about. 
Mr and Mrs B were also told: 
For early repayment, the amount repayable will also include the capital advanced, 
any accrued interest, plus an administration fee of £300. In addition, there may also 
be an early repayment charge, which could be substantial. I have explained 
how the early repayment charge is calculated. (my emphasis)
Mrs B insists that she was told by the advisor that the £300 administration fee was all that 
would be payable if the mortgage was repaid early. But I think its unlikely the advisor would 
have said this when, at the same time, he also confirmed in writing that there may be a 
substantial ERC. There would be no benefit whatsoever to the advisor saying something that was directly contradicted by both his own letter of advice and by the product documentation, 
because any discrepancy would have been apparent once Mr and Mrs B read the letter of 
26 June 2003. So although I dont doubt Mrs Bs veracity, I think its likely that her 
recollection of what was discussed is inaccurate, due to the passage of time.
Unclear terminology and unfair terms: Mrs T, on behalf of Mrs B, says the terminology 
used by Aviva and our investigator is unclear. In this regard, I note Mrs T is confused about 
why there is reference to a mortgage by the investigator, when the product taken out by her 
mother is a Flexible Cash Release Plan. 
In the loan agreement for the product, in the alphabetical list of expressions used in the 
agreement, mortgage is described as:
our mortgage on the property, which you agree to give to us as security for the total 
loan 
I trust this clears up any confusion on Mrs Ts part about why there is reference to a 
mortgage, either in documentation from Aviva or in correspondence from the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
The grey list to which Mrs T refers is part of the Consumer Rights Act 2015, which did not 
exist at the time Mrs B took out this product in 2003. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 
incorporates the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR), which 
was in force in 2003. Under UTCCR, where a contract term is considered unfair, it may not 
be binding on the disadvantaged party. 
The regulator (at that time the Financial Services Authority) issued a statement in 2010 
setting out its view on the extent to which the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1999 applied to ERC clauses. This included the view that the level of charge 
cannot be assessed for fairness because it was likely to form part of the price of a mortgage 
product. But a charge may be assessed for fairness on other grounds such as whether or 
not it has been drafted in plain and intelligible language.
As I said above, this product was sold before mortgages were regulated. But since 
regulation, equity release mortgages have contained the same types of gilt-linked ERCs and 
the same explanations of how the ERCs are calculated. If the regulator considered such 
terms to be unclear or unintelligible, I think its unlikely the wording would still be used in this 
type of contract.
However, ultimately only a court can determine whether or not a contract term is fair or 
unfair; it is outside the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide contractual 
disputes between Mrs B and Aviva. So if Mrs T considers there are unfair terms in the 
contract between Mrs B and Aviva, this will need to be referred to a court.
Im satisfied that it is reasonable for Aviva to charge an ERC if the mortgage is repaid early, 
calculated in accordance with the contractual terms agreed to by Mrs B.
Sale of Mrs Bs information: Aviva has confirmed that it does not sell or give away 
information about its customers to other businesses. I dont know how a third party obtained 
Mrs Bs information, but Im not persuaded that it was from Aviva. If Mrs B considers Aviva 
has breached her data protection rights by passing on her information to a third party, she 
will need to refer this to the Office of the Information Commissioner.Conclusion: I appreciate Mrs B is unhappy about the amount owed on the mortgage taken 
out in 2003, and about any potential ERC should she sell the property. But, after careful 
consideration, Im unable to find Aviva has done anything wrong.
If Mrs B doesnt accept my decision, it wont be legally-binding on her or Aviva, and Mrs B 
will be free to pursue her grievances against Aviva in court, if she wishes to do so. Mrs B 
might want to take advice from a solicitor before taking any legal action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman