DRN-1727261
 
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr W say Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2001 Mrs F and Mr W bought a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for 
a mortgage in one of the banks branches. The policy gave them protection against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it. When Mrs F and Mr W took 
out a further advance in 2003 they increased the cover on their PPI policy to protect their 
additional borrowing as well.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F and Mr W disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mrs F and Mr W that the PPI was optional, and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mrs F and Mr W say they haven't seen any confirmation that Lloyds told 
them that their mortgage was not dependent on, or more likely to be approved, if they took 
the insurance.
I can't know what was said in either meeting but I've looked at the paperwork from both 
sales. On Mrs F and Mr W's 2001 mortgage application form they indicated that they wanted 
PPI, and the option to decline it was set out with equal prominence. And Mrs F and Mr W 
then signed a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate. Theres nothing on 
the forms that I think could reasonably have led them to believe the PPI was mandatory.
In 2003 Mrs F and Mr W completed and signed a separate PPI application form, showing 
that they wanted their level of cover to increase to protect both the existing mortgage and 
the new borrowing. Again I can't find anything on that form, or their application for the further 
advance, that could reasonably have led them to think the borrowing was dependent on 
taking PPI. I've thought carefully about Mrs F and Mr W's comments but on balance, in both 
years, I think it's most likely Lloyds make it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs F and Mr W 
opted to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs F and Mr W so it had to make sure it was right for 
them. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances I think the PPI was suitable. Mrs F 
has told us her employment benefits didn't change significantly between 2001 and 2003, and Mr W has provided his employment contract showing his sick pay would have increased by 
ten working days a year for each year of service.
Mrs F says she was entitled to six months' full pay and six months' half pay if she was sick. 
And from what I can see Mr W was entitled to six weeks' full pay in 2001 rising to ten weeks 
by 2003. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 12 
months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave them up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. The PPI would have allowed them to use any savings they had to cover 
other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for their future needs.
Mrs F said they had a life assurance policy already but that offers a different kind of 
protection and wouldn't help with monthly mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. 
They have said they could rely on each other's income but that's not suitable 
alternative protection. It's not guaranteed and people's circumstances can change. 
Mrs F and Mr W had borrowed a large sum over a long period secured on their home, that 
they further increased in 2003. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage 
payments, I think the cover wouldve been useful for Mrs F and Mr W if they were sick, had 
an accident or lost their job(s).
Mrs F and Mr W feel strongly that Lloyds has not shown it provided full and sufficient 
information at the time of the sale. I agree its possible Lloyds didnt give Mrs F and Mr W all 
the information they needed before they decided to buy PPI. But what I need to decide in 
order to conclude the policy was mis-sold is if it's most likely they would have made a 
different decision with better information.
I dont know when Lloyds made the cost clear in 2001 or 2003, but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know that it pointed out the main things the 
PPI didnt cover. But Mrs F and Mr W dont appear to have been affected by any of those 
things (such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical conditions). So 
on balance I dont think it's most likely better information wouldve changed their decisions.
It follows I dont think Mrs F and Mr W were mis-sold PPI. Ive also thought about whether 
Lloyds needs to give back any of the commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling 
and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of mortgage agreement  including 
a regulated mortgage. As Mrs F and Mr Ws mortgage became a regulated mortgage 
before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mrs F and Mr W paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman