DRN-3630730
The complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc returned her funds to source, and used her 
remaining funds to repay her credit card debt. Shed like the funds repaid and compensation 
for the impact. 
What happened
Mrs C had several accounts with HSBC. 
In April 2020 Mrs C received £500 into her current account. In May 2020, HSBC received a 
fraud report regarding the payment. And after investigating they decided to return the funds 
to source. 
In November 2020 HSBC made the decision to close Mrs Cs accounts. They also decided 
to use Mrs Cs available balance  £1,873.86  to set off some of her credit card balance. 
Mrs C complained to HSBC but on reviewing her complaint they thought theyd acted fairly. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Cs complaint but they didnt uphold it. They asked 
Mrs C what the £500 payment was for, and Mrs C advised it was for a mobile phone shed 
sold via an online reselling platform. Mrs C explained she sold the mobile phone for £1,000 
and hand delivered it to the buyer. She provided a hand-written note, and screenshots from 
her selling account. 
However, our investigator wasn't satisfied with the evidence provided to show Mrs C was 
entitled to the funds. So they didn't think HSBC should do anything more.
Mrs C wasnt happy with our investigators view, and in response argued that she had 
thousands of pounds in her accounts and should be reimbursed this as well as the payment 
for the mobile phone. 
 
As Mrs C didnt agree the case was passed to me for a decision. 
On reviewing Mrs Cs case I asked HSBC for more information regarding the use of the 
funds in Mrs Cs account. Specifically I asked for more detail to show what HSBC relied on 
to make the decision to use Mrs Cs funds to pay off some of her credit card balance. I 
explained that between May and October 2020 Mrs C made the minimum payment towards 
her credit card. And before using the right to offset, I'd expect HSBC to be able to 
demonstrate Mrs C wasn't making the minimum payment, and repayment was being chased 
as outlined in best industry practice guidance. And I also highlighted that the majority of the 
funds used from Mrs Cs current account, £347.19, were benefits. 
HSBC reviewed their decision to use Mrs Cs benefits, and concluded this wasnt fair. They 
decided to offer Mrs C the full value of the benefits she received just prior to the account 
closure  not just the amount used to offset Mrs Cs credit card. In total they offered £629.33.
HSBC also asked for Mrs C to make an arrangement to repay her outstanding credit card 
debt of £2,687.21. 
I explained to Mrs C that I wouldnt be asking HSBC to repay the funds theyd returned to 
source  and I advised her of the offer from HSBC. Mrs C accepted that the £500 wouldnt 
be returned. However, she didnt accept the offer, and she highlighted they didnt only use 
£347.19 of her funds instead she had thousands of pounds in her account. 
I considered Mrs Cs response  and I agreed that in total £1,873.86 was used to pay off part 
of Mrs Cs credit card across her four accounts. I considered whether this should be 
refunded to Mrs C  but I didnt think it should as this would lead to an increase in Mrs Cs 
outstanding debt. I explained that I thought HSBC should pay Mrs C £600 for the 
inconvenience caused to her, plus return the £347.19 plus 8% interest from 
26 November 2020 to the date of repayment. 
HSBC accepted my recommendation, but Mrs C didnt. 
In response she said:
HSBC shouldnt have used her funds
Some of the funds, £1,000, were an inheritance from her Grandmother
Shed have made regular payments to repay the debt if theyd returned her funds
It ruined her families Christmas  and doesnt believe the compensation is enough
As Mrs C didnt accept my thoughts, Ive reviewed my conclusions.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has now accepted that HSBC acted fairly in returning her funds to source, so I wont 
consider this any further.
I've firstly considered HSBC's actions in closing Mrs Cs account. And having done so I think 
they acted fairly here. And I'll explain why. To close an account immediately HSBC need to 
evidence they've complied with the terms and conditions of an account. And Im satisfied 
they've done so. 
HSBC have accepted they acted unfairly in using Mrs Cs available funds to offset part of her 
credit card. I've considered whether I think HSBC should repay the entire balance used, 
£1,873.86, but I don't think it should. I say this because the funds were used to pay off an 
outstanding balance, and if the funds are removed from Mrs Cs credit card balance then her 
debt will increase - causing her, as a vulnerable consumer, more detriment. 
However, I do think HSBC should refund the benefits taken from Mrs Cs current account 
totalling £347.19, plus 8% from the date the funds were taken to the date of repayment. 
 
I've thought about the impact of HSBC's actions on Mrs C. Part of the distress caused would 
have been due to HSBC's decision to close Mrs Cs accounts and return £500 to source - 
which I regard as fair. So I need to take this into account in my conclusions. However, Mrs C 
was also deprived of £347.19 from her benefits, and £1,873.86, just before Christmas 2020. 
Mrs C explained how this impacted her mental health and ability to care for her children. In Mrs Cs response she argued that HSBC shouldnt have used her funds to pay the debt, 
they hadnt accepted responsibility until now and the level of compensation wasnt sufficient 
for the impact on her and the errors they made. 
Ive considered Mrs Cs arguments. My role isnt to punish HSBC for their failings, instead I 
need to assess the impact of their actions. And Im satisfied Mrs C was caused significant 
inconvenience and distress during Christmas 2020 because of HSBCs actions. For the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C I think £600 compensation is fair. 
Mrs C has an outstanding balance on her credit card of £2,687.21. Id encourage Mrs C to 
make contact with HSBC who have a responsibility to treat her positively and 
sympathetically when arranging an affordable repayment plan. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think HSBC should compensate Mrs C £600, plus 
return the £347.19 and pay 8% from 26 November 2020 to the date of repayment. HSBC are 
entitled, if they wish, to remove the £347.19 from Mrs Cs credit card balance. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Repay Mrs C £347.19 plus 8 % interest from 26 November 2020 to the date of 
repayment. 
Pay Mrs C £600 in compensation for the impact caused to her
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman