DRN-4110501
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund money thats been debited from his 
account. 
What happened
On 27 September 2022, a payment of £4,155 was made from Mr Hs account to a new 
payee. 
The next day, Mr H contacted Monzo and said he hadnt made the transaction and asked for 
it to be reversed. He said the money hadnt been sent by him and he was unaware of the 
payment. He suggested that someone else had accessed his device. 
When Monzo declined the claim, Mr H said hed made the payment himself and was tricked 
into sending it as part of a bank impersonation scam. He said hed received a phone call 
from someone claiming to be from the banks fraud department and was told that his money 
was at risk and a new account needed to be set up for him. Mr H explained that he was busy 
at the time of this call and didnt think much of it, but when he missed calls from that number 
again over a week later, he called back and was told that he needed to move his money into 
the new account. Mr H says he thought it was odd that the account wasnt in his own name 
but accepted what he was told about the new account belonging to bank staff. 
Mr H said initially he thought someone else had accessed his device, but hed since 
gathered more information and remembered what happened. Mr H said hed reported the 
payment as unauthorised as he thought this would be the quickest way to get the money 
back. He explained he couldnt afford to lose it as it was his student finance. Mr H said hed 
contacted Monzo within 24 hours of the payment being made and didnt understand why the 
money hadnt been reversed and sent back. Mr H explained that he was receiving threating 
messages on his phone and on social media from the person who he suspects carried out 
the scam. 
Monzo looked into the case again in light of Mr Hs further information but did not change its 
position. In its final response letter, Monzo said it had followed its internal processes properly 
and offered appropriate advice. It felt Mr H didnt take enough steps to check who he was 
paying and what for. 
As Mr H was unhappy with Monzos position, he referred his complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator looked into the situation but did not recommend that it should be upheld. 
She said Monzos investigation was hindered when Mr H deceived the bank about how the 
payment was made. She thought Mr H had doubts about what he was being told to do. 
She wasnt persuaded there was an urgent risk and suggested the reason Mr H had been 
given as to why the account wasnt in his name was not plausible. 
Mr H was disappointed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed again. As no agreement 
could be reached, the complaint has now been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised the matter in my own words and in less detail than has been provided. 
No discourtesy is intended by this as it enables me to focus on the key issues of this 
complaint and its surrounding investigation. 
The starting position at law is that Monzo is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that its customer authorises it to make. As Mr H agrees that he made the payment himself, 
he is presumed liable for it, even though hes later said he was tricked into doing so. Once a 
faster payment has been authorised, the funds will be received by the payee almost 
immediately after leaving the senders account. It is not possible to recall or cancel a faster 
payment once it has been sent, so Mr Hs expectation that Monzo could return the funds to 
him because hed reported it within 24 hours of the money leaving his account was sadly 
mistaken. 
It is important for me to point out that Monzo does not automatically have to refund scam 
victims. There are some circumstances where it might be fair and reasonable for Monzo to 
take responsibility for losses incurred by a victim of a push payment scam, but from what 
I have seen, I cannot fairly agree that they apply in this case.
The difficulty here is it is not very clear exactly what happened or how it happened. Mr H has 
changed his account of the key events, which are significant details that go to the very heart 
of this complaint. Hes provided different explanations of the circumstances surrounding the 
disputed payment and it was only after his claim was declined that he suggested hed been 
the victim of a scam. But this means Mr H has acted dishonestly and obstructively in a 
material respect. As such, I cant place much weight on what Mr H has said and described 
as being an accurate version of events.  
In addition, I am not persuaded by Mr Hs evidence of the alleged scam. Mr H has provided 
us with copies of threatening messages that he received. There is no question that these 
messages are unpleasant. But the tone of the correspondence suggests to me that Mr H 
might know the sender. Mr Hs screenshots show a message was received at 12:18 on 
27 September 2022. The message said You need to cancel that shit with the bank cah 
people know where you live and your involving our mom [sic]. In my experience, it is 
unusual for a fraudster to send threatening messages to a scam victim. Im also mindful that 
Mr H did not dispute the payment with Monzo until 28 September 2022 and that Monzos 
records show the disputed payment was made at 18:26 on 27 September 2022. 
I dont doubt that not having this money has been very hard for Mr H. This is a lot of money 
for anyone to lose and I am particularly mindful of the impact it has had on Mr Hs university 
experience. Hes provided evidence to show hes had to apply for financial support from the 
universitys hardship fund to be able to buy food and pay his rent. Its clear that this has not 
been an easy time for him. But I think Mr H probably knows more about this payment than 
hes told us. Mr H has told us he was fearful for his safety so it is possible that he got caught 
up in a situation that escalated. My role is to consider whether Monzo has any responsibility 
to refund the money in dispute. I know this will disappoint Mr H, but in these circumstances, 
I cant fairly and reasonably say that it does.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman