DRN-3316244
The complaint
Mrs H complains that NewDay Ltd didnt refund money she lost as part of a scam.
What happened
Mrs H was searching online for investment opportunities and came across a company Ill call 
E. She was interested in investing with them because well-known celebrities were 
promoting them and explained theyd earnt a lot of money with them. This gave her 
reassurance that they were legitimate and that she could do the same. She left her contact 
details on Es webform and was subsequently contacted by a representative who sold her an 
investment opportunity. 
Mrs H was promised training in order to understand the complex trading system and a 
dedicated account manager. She was also reassured that shed be in control of her trading 
account and shed be able to withdraw her funds whenever she wished. Mrs H was told she 
needed a minimum deposit to be able to open a trading account and she was subsequently 
pressured into investing more funds when her investments began to decline. E told her the 
further deposits were needed to counteract the loss. 
Between 16 September 2019 to 23 September 2019, Mrs H deposited three payments 
totalling £4,500 onto her E trading account using her NewDay Laura Ashley Mastercard 
credit card. On 23 September 2019, Mrs H deposited a total of £10,999 onto her E trading 
account using her NewDay Opus Mastercard credit card (this included a single payment of 
£10,000 which was initially blocked by NewDay and subsequently released following Mrs Hs 
confirmation that she had indeed made the payment). 
Mrs H suspected E may not be legitimate when her account manager told her to apply for a 
bank loan and to give the reason as a car purchase for her son. She contacted NewDay to 
help recover her money. Mrs H also reported the matter to the police. NewDay declined to 
assist on the basis that Mastercard didnt have chargeback dispute options available to Mrs 
H.
Mrs H referred her complaint to this office. One of our Investigators agreed that chargeback 
wasnt a viable option for Mrs H but felt that s.75 could be applied to the transactions and 
Mrs H had a valid misrepresentation and breach of contract claim.
 
As NewDay didnt respond, the case has been referred to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons as that of our 
Investigator. 
Ive first considered that Mrs H had no valid chargeback rights because the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme significantly limits any chargeback options related to investments or 
gambling. 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether s.75 could be applied to the disputed payments. For s.75 to apply 
there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
Act. 
Im also satisfied that there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain in 
relation to the payments as Mrs H (debtor) paid E (supplier) using her NewDay (creditor) 
credit cards. 
Im satisfied Mrs Hs payments to E financed their agreement  which was that E would 
invest Mrs Hs money and earn her a profit similar to the celebrities they worked with. 
Im further satisfied that Mrs Hs claim relates to the transactions in that she feels she was 
tricked into depositing the payments with E for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit-transactions; and
b) Encouraging Mrs H to deposit larger amounts. 
Mrs H does not believe that E legitimately obtained celebrity endorsements and believes she 
was misled into thinking they had. Mrs H also believes that E misled her about the risks 
involved with investing with them as they told her verbally that she wouldnt lose money and 
would only profit. 
This claim  that Mrs H was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if Mrs H was told by E matters that were factually untrue in order to 
trick her into entering into the deposit-transactions, her claim would be for misrepresentation. 
Or, if E made binding promises to her as part of those transactions and went on to breach 
these that would make her claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
Im satisfied E told Mrs H they helped particular celebrities earn large profits and those 
celebrities endorsed their service. Im also persuaded that E told Mrs H that her deposit-
transactions would be risk-free as professionals would manage her investments for her and 
shed be in control of her trading account and able to withdraw funds when she wished.  Mrs 
H was induced into entering into an agreement with E on the basis of these claims. E was regulated in Cyprus at the time Mrs H invested with them. They also had passporting 
rights through the FCA to offer their services to UK customers. In June 2020, the FCA 
removed Es passporting rights. It said in a press release dated 1 June 2020, E (amongst 
others):
.used social media and webpages carrying fake endorsements from celebrities to 
entice consumers into the scams involving CFDs. 
The FCA estimates that UK investors have lost hundreds of thousands of pounds in 
these investments.  
None of the firms and their operators have any actual presence in the UK and the 
firms have addresses in Cyprus. 
The FCA took action because consumers were not provided with sufficient 
information as to the nature of the investments, some were pressured into making 
increasingly large investments in CFDs, which referenced bitcoin, foreign exchange, 
shares and indices, and some were even encouraged to take out credit to make the 
payments. 
It also appears that the firms had failed to pay money owed to investors, charged 
customers undisclosed fees and failed to tell them about the risks of trading CFDs.
CFDs are complex financial investments which allow traders to speculate on the 
movement in prices of underlying assets and can cause heavy losses to unwary or 
inexperienced investors. 
A number of customers are known to have lost more than £100,000 to the schemes. 
The Cypriot-regulated firms  which were permitted to operate in the UK through a 
method known as passporting  must now cease all regulated activities with UK 
consumers. 
It is the first time the FCA has used its power to remove passporting rights from a 
firm.
There are also negative reviews online that echo Mrs Hs testimony. 
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely E informed Mrs H of the risks involved in 
trading with them and specifically informed her they were risk-free. They sought to mislead 
Mrs H of her earning potential on the basis of fake celebrity endorsements. Im further 
persuaded that they assured Mrs H that if she deposited more money with them, this would 
be the only way to counteract the losses she was experiencing. Im satisfied that if Mrs H 
had known the real risk that she may lose all of her money, she wouldnt have deposited any 
money with E, so she was induced into the contract on the basis of these 
misrepresentations.
Breach of contract 
Here, Mrs H has deposited funds with E in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them when she wished. Given the exchange 
of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a transaction 
(the deposit-transaction) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that E had contractual obligations:a) To enable Mrs H to use the funds from her deposit-transactions on an investment 
platform;
and 
b) To enable Mrs H to withdraw the funds deposited as and when she wished.
Mrs H wasnt permitted to withdraw the funds from her trading account and didnt appear to 
have control of her trading account at all. She might have made losses or profits from her 
investment  so a breach of the former term has not  on the balance of probabilities  
caused her to lose trading profits and she would (on balance) have been left no better or 
worse off than when she made the deposit-transactions.   
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mrs Hs loss amounts to the full 
amount of the deposit-transactions.
I think a claim under misrepresentation is the strongest and supported by evidence 
published by the FCA. 
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd should refund Mrs Hs deposit-transactions plus 
interest. It should:
Refund three payments to E totaling £4,500 debited from Mrs Hs Laura Ashley 
Mastercard;
Refund two payments to E totaling £10,999 debited from Mrs Hs Opus credit card;
Pay 8% interest on each of those payments from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement.
If NewDay Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mrs H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman