DRN-3195161
The complaint
 Miss W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) imposed an 
excess mileage charge at the end of her agreement when she had been led to believe none 
would be raised.
What happened
 In January 2016 Miss W entered into a Hire Purchase agreement with VWFS for the
acquisition of a new car with a 48 months term. The annual mileage allowance was 10,000.
Miss W, whose testimony is both consistent and credible, as is that of her father who was
involved in both the purchase and the complaint, says that she was told by the dealer that
VFS didnt routinely impose excess mileage charges.
Miss W has explained that she was unable to afford the original quote and the dealer
explained that with a reduced annual mileage the monthly payments could be reduced to an
affordable sum. Some five months before the end of the term the dealer offered to buy her
car as it had customer, but the price offered would have left her with negative equity.
She says she asked about whether voluntarily terminating the agreement early or waiting to
the end of the term would be best and she was told the latter.
The contract came to an end in March 2020, the car was collected with a mileage reading of
77,075 and Miss W received an invoice for £2,609.42 on 11 March 2020 for the excess
mileage. Miss W enquired about how she could pay this as she didnt have the funds and
was referred to the collections department and completed an income and expenditure form
on 25 April.
On 8 May 2020, she raised a complaint with VFS. It rejected this complaint and said it had
made clear in the documentation at the time of sale that Miss W would be liable for any
excess mileage.
Miss W has explained that she had been told there had been a change of approach by VFS
during the term of Miss Ws contract and while it had once not sought to charge excess.
mileage this practice had changed. In a phone call with Mr W the call handler explained that
this change of practice only applied to voluntary terminations and Miss W would always have
been liable for the charge since she let her contract run to term.
I gather the change happened some time ago and if Miss W had voluntarily terminated the
agreement five months before as she had contemplated she would still have faced an
excess mileage charge. Mr Ws offer to pay half the charge was rejected.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She asked VFS if it would accept 50%, but
it again refused. Our investigator concluded that Miss Ws recollection of what she had been
told by the dealer was accurate, but she felt that Miss W had signed up to the written terms
and conditions and so she was liable to pay the bill.
Miss W didnt agree and sought to get a written response from the dealer, but to no avail. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows;
I said I had given a great deal of thought to this complaint and after due consideration I 
believed it should be upheld in part at least.
I was satisfied that Miss W was led to believe that she would not have to pay any excess
mileage charge. Her explanation of what she was told was credible and I believed it induced 
her to enter into the contract. I didnt believe she would have done so unless she had been 
given reassurance that no additional charge would be made.
It was clear that the 10,000-mile limit would only be sufficient to cover her journeys to and 
from work and she would have sought an alternative deal with the dealer or elsewhere to 
obtain a car which met her needs.
It wasnt disputed that VFS had a change of policy after the agreement was taken out. It
seems that it had an informal policy of not charging excess mileage when a car finance
agreement was voluntarily terminated. Most consumers are not fully aware of the various
ways an agreement can be ended and it seemed reasonable to conclude that whatever was
said by the dealer it did say that excess mileage wasnt normally charged. It may have
referred to voluntary termination, but I said most people wouldnt understand the distinction 
unless it was explained and I doubted that it was made clear.
I explained that I had listened to the call between Mr W and the call handler from VFS and 
he struggled to get full clarity about the situation. I too felt the explanation while accurate 
was somewhat convoluted and it added to my view that there was in all probability a lack of 
clarity at the time of the sale.
It seemed to me that the dealer which acted as an intermediary in the setting up of the 
agreement on behalf of VFS most likely misrepresented the impact of taking out a reduced 
mileage agreement and this induced Miss W to sign. Without that reassurance I considered 
the dealer may well have lost a sale.
I agreed the documentation made it clear that excess mileage could be charged, but if a
customer is told not to worry about it by someone acting on behalf of the lender then I could
see that they would do so.
I noted Miss W had had additional use of the car and she had offered to pay half the charge 
and I thought this was a responsible and fair offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 VFS has accepted my provisional decision, but Miss W has not responded despite being 
reminded. It follows that I have concluded that my decision should stand.  
Putting things right
VFS should write off half the excess mileage charge.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that this complaint is upheld and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to write off half the charge for excess mileage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman