DRN-3648289
The complaint
Mr C has complained Metro Bank PLC is holding him liable for a personal loan he didnt take 
out.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr C contacted the company he took out a loan with. Ill call them R and 
they acted as the credit broker arranging Mr Cs £5,000 loan with Metro Bank. Mr C told R 
hed not taken out the loan himself. And although the money credited his bank account he 
was pressured into giving the money to a third party.
R didnt believe the evidence they obtained from Mr Cs bank matched his testimony. R told 
him theyd not be doing anything further as Mr C had taken out the loan himself.
Mr C brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt the evidence showed Mr C had taken out the loan himself.
Mr C remained dissatisfied and asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I can see Mr C has provided powerful testimony about his mental health issues. I can 
reassure him Ive taken this into account. Ive also noted his verbal evidence about what 
happened in a hotel and having his ID stolen, bank account being taken over and being 
pressured into providing money to a third party as he believed his family were under threat.
However Mr C has not been able to provide any additional evidence on this issue and never 
reported this matter to the police. I appreciate this must have been a difficult experience. But 
the lack of any supporting evidence has an impact on whether what happened matches what 
he told us happened.
And overall I believe Mr C took out this loan himself and benefitted from it. I say this for the 
following reasons:
All the information provided to R to support Mr Cs loan application match Mr Cs. 
This includes the email address. If a third party had stolen Mr Cs details, Id not 
necessarily expect that.
Evidence to R from Mr Cs bank confirms the loan proceeds were paid into his 
current account. Some of this money was then transferred into a savings account.
Theres no evidence that Mr Cs bank account was taken over by a third party.
Mr C has no evidence of correspondence between himself and the third party which 
he said formerly existed.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not intending to ask Metro Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Cs complaint against Metro 
Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman