DRN-3318034
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy with the way Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) handled an issue 
that arose whilst he was depositing a cheque via an ATM.
What happened
Mr Y was depositing a cheque to his current account using an ATM. When keying in the 
amount on the cheque, he mistakenly keyed in the wrong amount. The ATM asked him to 
verify the amount, but Mr Y says he just pressed yes without checking the amount hed 
entered was correct. But when he looked at the printed receipt, he realised hed made an 
error, so he notified a member of staff. Mr Y says he was told in branch that the error would 
be rectified that same day.
Mr Y checked his account the next day, and he noticed the incorrect amount was still there. 
He called Nationwide, who got in contact with the correct department. That department 
verified the error immediately, corrected it and advised that it would take 7-10 working days 
to refund the third party. At this point Mr Y said hed wasted too much time with this, and he 
requested £25 compensation. 
The handler at Nationwide raised a complaint for Mr Y. Nationwide investigated the 
complaint. It apologised for any inconvenience, but it didnt uphold the complaint.
So, Mr Y complained to our service. He said he wanted to claim £150 for the valuable time 
hed wasted pursuing this. An investigator looked at the complaint. But the investigator said 
the Nationwide had already done enough to put things right for Mr Y. 
Mr Y doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
As a service we'll consider whether compensation is appropriate in each case. Well ask 
about what happened, and the impact it had on a consumers life. A business's mistake can 
affect a consumer practically or emotionally, as well as financially. For this reason, the rules 
we follow say that we can award fair compensation if a consumer experiences an 
inconvenience.
But we're all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and a certain level of 
frustration and minor annoyance is expected. For us to make an award we'd need to see 
that the impact of a business's mistake was more than someone would expect to experience 
as part of everyday life. Using financial services won't always be totally hassle-free. So, just 
because there's been a mistake it doesn't necessarily follow that we would always award 
compensation for that mistake  especially when the impact of it is minimal. 
In this specific instance, Mr Y had admitted he made the initial error. He didnt check the 
amount he keyed in at the ATM. He says he brought this to the attention of the bank, and he 
says he was told in branch that Nationwide would amend it that same day. However, when 
he checked the following day the issue hadnt been corrected in his account, so he called 
Nationwide immediately.
Nationwide says that it wouldnt have told Mr Y that his error would be rectified immediately. 
It says deposit issues following an ATM transaction are not the responsibility of the branch. It 
says deposit issues are referred to a specialist team, reconciled and amended within a few 
days.
The agent Mr Y spoke to when he called was very clear with her information. She put Mr Y 
on hold whilst she contacted the correct department. Mr Y was on hold for a very short 
period, and when she came back, she was clear that the issue had now been rectified and a 
refund would be due back to the cheque issuer in 7-10 days. Mr Y wasnt happy, and he 
immediately asked for compensation, so the handler offered to open a complaint for Mr Y. 
Looking at the bank statement provided, I can see that the error that Mr Y made was actually 
recorded as corrected the day he made the call. Nationwide has also confirmed that the 
branch that Mr Y notified of the issue had also sent in a referral sheet about the deposit 
error, as per its process. I can see Mr Ys complaint was submitted, he was updated 
regularly, and he received a final response approximately two months later. I cant see any 
delays, or failures here.
I know Mr Y is upset about what he says he was told in the branch. He says as a 
professional having to take up so much time to sort this out means he is out of pocket and 
he now wants compensation of £150 for this time. He says if he hadnt called, this issue 
would never have been sorted. 
But I dont agree. Nationwide has confirmed the referral sheet was sent from the branch. 
And its unlikely it wouldve been received at head office before Mr Y called Nationwide the 
next day. Its hard to say what Mr Y was told in branch. I wasnt there to hear what was said 
and there are no witnesses. But given the correct process was followed by the branch in 
relation to deposit errors, Id say its more likely than not the correct process was explained 
to Mr Y, and Mr Y likely understood it incorrectly. 
Mr Y made the initial error. He has admitted he didnt check the amount he entered at the 
ATM. This was his responsibility, not Nationwides. And even if the procedure wasnt 
explained correctly to Mr Y in branch, the correct referral sheet was sent. When Mr Y called 
Nationwide the next day it rectified the issue immediately and told him the refund to the third 
party would be repaid in 7-10 days. So, Mr Y hasnt suffered financially, and he hasnt 
suffered much distress or inconvenience because of the actions of Nationwide. Theres no 
evidence to suggest that Nationwide made any errors. In fact, Nationwide has taken time out 
of its day to rectify an error that Mr Y has made, and it apologised for any confusion caused 
when Mr Y visited the branch. 
I know Mr Y wants compensation for what happened. I appreciate he felt distressed, and he 
feels there couldve been issues going forward. But Mr Y was never going to be financially 
impacted by the rectification of the amount deposited, and in cases like this we wouldnt 
award compensation for what may or may not happen in the future. From what I can see, all 
of this had minimal impact on Mr Y, and I can see Nationwide dealt with it correctly. This is 
not a situation where we would ask Nationwide to pay compensation. As such Im not 
upholding this complaint and I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman