DRN-2547015
The complaint
Miss N says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Miss N bought the policy in late 1996, at the same time as taking out a credit card using a 
paper application. The PPI covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Miss N and Barclays a provisional decision on 29 December 2020, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Miss Ns credit card application had a section for PPI, amongst the sections for other 
optional extras. It offered her the option to take out a policy or turn it down. The option to buy 
PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Miss N signed the form to 
confirm her choices. I understand Miss N recalls there being a phone call involved, but this 
was a paper application and there doesnt appear to be any indication of such a call. From 
what I can see, Barclays made Miss N aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer remembers doing 
so after so many years.
It not clear whether Barclays gave Miss N tailored advice about buying PPI or not. For 
completeness, Ill consider both scenarios.
If Barclays advised Miss N to buy PPI, that means they had to check it was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Miss N was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions 
or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and covered her for 
significantly longer. And she didnt have any alternative insurance in place. I understand 
Miss Ns family may have been happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be 
unable to help when needed. And this card was Miss Ns sole responsibility, not anyone 
elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Barclays had recommended she rely on 
other individuals to pay it. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for Miss N in 
case she was off sick or lost her job. 
If Barclays didnt advise Miss N about buying PPI, then they didnt have to check if it was 
right for her; but they did need to give her clear information about the policy  so that she 
could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Miss N about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Miss N chose to take out the policy, which indicates 
she wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like she was affected by 
any of the policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for Miss N in 
case something went wrong. So overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was 
likely to have put her off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
26 January 2021. Both Miss N and Barclays let me know they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that the PPI was not mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman