DRN-3466404
The complaint
Mr K complains about Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (SDF) and the 
way they reported his account to his credit file, which resulted in a default being recorded 
incorrectly.
What happened
Mr K held a credit account with SDF. Around 2018, Mr K encountered financial difficulties 
which impacted his ability to maintain his minimum payments to the account. This led to SDF 
explaining they would begin the default process unless Mr K could make payment to the 
account, which he did. So, a default wasnt applied.
But in 2021, Mr K was made aware that a default was recorded as being applied to the 
account on his credit file with one specific credit reporting company, who Ill refer to as E. 
Mr K was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr K was unhappy that his credit file had been negatively impacted by the recording of the 
default. And he was unhappy that this wouldve impacted his ability to obtain credit. So, he 
wanted the default to be removed and to be compensated for the upset this had caused him. 
Mr K also complained about SDFs inability to update his address during the complaint 
process, despite him making them aware he had moved.
SDF responded and upheld the complaint. They recognised they failed to make Mr K aware 
he would need to provide proof of address before they could update their system. So, they 
accepted a letter went to the wrong address and they apologised for any upset this caused. 
But they didnt think they had recorded a default against Mr Ks credit file incorrectly. They 
explained the account had never been defaulted, and that the two other credit reporting 
companies had reported to Mr Ks account showing this. They explained E had incorrectly 
processed information SDF had sent them when the account had closed in 2019, and so 
they thought E were at fault. But they agreed to contact E to ensure the default was removed 
on Mr Ks credit file, which they did do. So, SDF didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr K remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator investigated the complaint and didnt uphold it. They agreed SDF made an 
error when not explaining to Mr K what he needed to provide to complete the change of 
address. But they didnt think SDF needed to do anything more than the apology they had 
already provided. And they didnt think SDF had provided any incorrect information to E that 
led to a default being recorded. They explained the same information had been given to 
three credit reporting companies and only E had used this information to record a default. 
And they also recognised the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) had investigated and 
held E at fault for the error. So, based on the above, our investigator didnt think SDF had 
done anything wrong and so, they didnt think SDF needed to do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree. He was unhappy that both E and SDF were blaming each other and that 
he wasnt being given an answer of who was at fault. Mr K was also unhappy with SDFs 
actions in 2017/2018, around the time of the default and thought this should be factored in. 
But our investigator explained our service couldnt consider SDFs actions from this time, as 
wed already investigated this under another reference some years earlier. And our 
investigator explained Mr Ks complaint about E would need to be handled separately and 
their view wasnt able to focus on E, only on SDF and whether they thought SDF acted fairly. 
And they thought they did. Mr K remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr K. I appreciate Mr K 
wouldnt have expected a default to have been recorded on his credit file for this account as 
he ensured he made payments to prevent this in 2018. So, when he was made aware by a 
financial consultant that he had a poor credit score and this prompted him to check his credit 
file, I can understand the upset and confusion Mr K wouldve felt when he saw the default in 
question. And I can appreciate why Mr K would assume SDF were to blame, as they were 
the lender that provided the account.
But for me to say SDF should compensate Mr K for the upset this default caused, Id need to 
be satisfied that it was their error that led to it being applied incorrectly. And that Mr K had 
been negatively impacted by this in a material way. And in this situation, I dont think thats 
the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider.
Im aware Mr K is unhappy with the way in which SDF handled his complaint. But complaints 
handling is an unregulated activity and so, falls outside of our services jurisdiction. So, I 
havent investigated this further. 
Im aware Mr K would also like us to consider the circumstances of the default, and whether 
SDF were fair to threaten this course of action, around 2017 to 2018. But I can see Mr K has 
already raised a complaint about this which our service has investigated and decided upon. 
So, its not something our service is able to consider again. I appreciate Mr K thinks the 
circumstances have changed and so, the complaint should be reconsidered. But 
unfortunately, any complaint about the debt collection activity SDF undertook, including the 
threat of a default, cant be investigated any further.
And finally, I appreciate Mr Ks complaint also refers to E and it seems as though both SDF 
and E feel the other is to blame. Mr K has raised a separate complaint with our service about 
E, so this decision focuses solely on the actions of SDF and whether I think they acted fairly. 
It hasnt been influenced by the outcome of our services complaint into E in any way.Ive first focused on the recording of the default on Mr Ks credit file, as I feel this is the main 
aspect of Mr Ks complaint. And I dont dispute a default was reported on Mr Ks credit file by 
E, and that this shouldnt have happened. But I dont think this means SDF were responsible 
for this error.
SDF have confirmed that, in July 2017, they initially entered Mr Ks account into their Debt 
Recovery Department (DRD) as it was their intention to default the account. But, as Mr K 
entered into an agreement to clear his outstanding arrears, the account was moved out of 
this department and restarted around a week later. 
The agreement continued until it was terminated on 9 October 2019, when this termination 
was reported to all three credit reporting companies. But from what I can see, I think that 
alongside this information, the accounts full history was provided including the move from 
DRD in July 2017. And this was noted as Restart D 20072017. 
So, from the evidence Ive seen, I think its reasonable for me to assume E read this 
information and took it that the account had been defaulted, when it in fact had only been 
SDFs intention to do so and that this default had never actually been applied.
As Ive explained, its not my role to decide whether I think E were fair to read and report the 
information in this way. But instead, its my role to think about whether SDF were fair to 
provide this information and whether the way they provided it was an error. And I dont think 
it was.
I say this because SDF provided this information to all three credit reporting companies. And 
only E interpreted the information in this way, leading to a default being recorded. Had SDF 
made an error, I wouldve expected all three credit reporting companies to have interpreted 
the information in this way at the time, and for a default to be recorded by all three. But this 
wasnt the case. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume the information SDF provided 
was fair and presented in a reasonable way.
And I can see that once Mr K had made SDF aware of the issue, they acted quickly to 
ensure the default was removed, with it being deleted from Mr Ks credit file within two 
months of it being reported. Ive seen no evidence to show Mr K applied for credit during this 
period. And even if I had, I have no evidence to show that any credit was rejected purely 
because of the default applied by E. So, even if I thought SDF had acted unfairly, I dont 
think Im able to say Mr K was financially impacted by this. And so, I dont think SDF need to 
do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
I understand Mr K wont agree with this. And I dont dispute Mr K is likely to have been left 
both frustrated and confused by the situation, with both SDF and E refusing to take 
responsibility for the issue. I think its clear there was a breakdown in communication 
between SDF and E, and that information has been interpreted in a way the other party 
didnt intend. But this decision focuses solely on whether I think SDF provided the 
information incorrectly. And I cant say they have based on what Ive seen.
Ive then thought about SDFs failure to update Mr Ks address. And its already accepted by 
SDF that they failed to make Mr K aware of his need to provide a proof of address. And 
because of this, a letter was sent to his old address. I dont doubt the worry this wouldve 
caused. But I recognise SDF have apologised for this and ensured the address has been 
updated. And the letter sent to Mr Ks old address didnt hold any personal information that 
would leave him or any account he held vulnerable to any fraudulent activity. Nor have I 
seen evidence that any fraudulent activity has taken place. So, because of this, I think SDFs 
apology is a reasonable response and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as very. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman