DRN-2452504
The complaint
Mr O complains about the service he received from Santander when he complained about 
some transactions.
He would like to be reimbursed for three disputed payments made between April and June 
2020.
What happened
Mr O complained to Santander about three transactions he had made via PayPal in relation 
to in-game purchases.  He said the items purchased were not what he thought they were, 
and he had been misled into buying them.
Santander asked Mr O to provide some further details about the transactions so that it could 
consider a chargeback.  It said the amounts paid and the merchants names did not match 
the transactions leaving Mr Os account so this needed clarifying.
But Santander said it never received the information it needed in order to carry out a 
chargeback request, so Mr Os complaint was closed.
Mr O complained when Santander said it would not re-open the complaint.  It sent a final 
response to him on 2nd November 2020 rejecting his complaint but offering £50 as a gesture 
of good will for its poor service in miscommunicating with him.
So, Mr O came to this service and asked that we direct Santander to refund the disputed 
transactions.
Our investigator didnt think he could do this, and he explained why that was to Mr O  but 
Mr O wasnt happy with the outcome and asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid its bad news for Mr O because I wont be asking Santander to do anymore here.
As the investigator has explained  the chargeback process is a voluntary process.  There is 
no obligation on Santander to carry it out, but it is considered good industry practice for it to 
do so.
On this occasion, I can see that it requested further information from Mr O which he says he 
sent but the evidence which Santander had did not satisfy the requirements.  And when it did 
not hear back from Mr O, it closed the complaint.
The time limits for carrying out a chargeback are set by the scheme and not Santander  so 
after the time limits have expired, there is very little Santander can do. In the absence of the 
relevant information which showed the disputed transactions correlated with those leaving 
Mr Os account, I dont think I can expect Santander to have done much more.
In its submissions to this service, Santander acknowledged it could have been clearer in how 
it dealt with Mr O and in fact, I can see that from the final response letter which it sent.  It 
offered £50 for this.
Ultimately, it was left it with insufficient evidence with which to carry out a chargeback 
request and I remind myself again that this is a voluntary process.  In the circumstances, I 
cant see that it has done anything wrong in how it dealt with Mr Os complaint and I wont be 
asking it to refund these transactions to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman