DRN-3806468
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs and Mr B hold with Bank of Scotland plc
(BOS). Theyre unhappy that BOS hasnt allowed him access to the lowest interest rates 
available over the years, leaving them as, in their eyes, mortgage prisoners. They would like 
redress for the extra interest they say they have overpaid as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ill merely summarise them
here.
Mrs and Mr Bs mortgage was on an initial tracker rate that expired in 2011, at which point 
the mortgage reverted to BOSs standard variable rate (SVR). BOS says it had a discussion 
about a new deal in 2011, but this didnt go through. It says it has no details are to why this 
was. The mortgage remained on SVR until 2021, when Mrs and Mr B applied for, and were 
accepted for, a new fixed rate. However, they think BOS should have offered them this back 
in 2019, when the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced new rules for how lenders 
should treat mortgage prisoners
BOS didnt uphold the complaint, and when it came to us, our investigator wasnt persuaded 
BOS had done anything wrong. Mrs and Mr B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the FCA.
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mrs and Mr B have said about why they believe they should be treated as 
mortgage prisoners. However, thats not what the outcome of the complaint turns on, as this 
case is not about changing lender. Its about changing rates on a mortgage with the existing 
lender. It seems to me that there are two main issues for me to decide here. They are:
whether BOS did enough to let Mrs and Mr B know that better interest rate deals were 
available and what they needed to do in order to get one; and
whether BOS was obliged to offer Mrs and Mr B a better interest rate deal.
 
On the first question, I dont know, and wont speculate on, why nothing came of the 
discussion in 2011 after their initial tracker rate ended. But its reasonable to conclude that 
Mrs and Mr B knew, or should have known, that better rates were available from that point.
On the second question, Its a matter for a borrower to choose whether or not to apply for a 
new rate, and make the application if they want one  including making sure they know when 
to do so. Here the available evidence doesnt point to Mrs and Mr B having submitted a 
formal request for a better rate before 2021. 
Its possible the reason Mrs and Mr B didnt request a new rate earlier than this was because 
of their belief that they were mortgage prisoners, and therefore they assumed any request 
made before the FCA changed its rules in 2019 would be refused. But I cant see that BOS 
said or did anything to foster the belief that Mrs and Mr B were mortgage prisoners; 
meanwhile, the answer is always no until the question is asked. Here, it seems, the first time 
the question was asked formally, the answer was yes.
Its worth pointing out that no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; lenders have to consider 
context and individual circumstances in all cases. They also have their individual lending 
criteria and appetite for risk. Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to say 
what those criteria should be, or to second-guess lenders judgement on risk. 
Putting all of the above together, Im not convinced Mrs and Mr B made a request to vary the 
interest rate on their mortgage before 2021, so BOS was never in a position to decide if they 
were eligible for one. When they did ask for a new deal, BOS immediately said yes. In all the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded Mrs and Mr B have been treated unfairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against Bank of Scotland plc. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman