DRN-3826957
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) handled his claim for a 
refund of a payment he made using his Tesco credit card account.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr G paid a travel agent (T) £4,237.65 for a holiday to Australia, which 
was due to depart on 9 July 2020. It included international flights, domestic flights and 
accommodation. He also had to pay a £116.53 foreign transaction fee. In total, he paid 
£4,354.18.
The holiday was cancelled by T due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It offered to refund the cost 
of the international flights and 2 nights accommodation in Dubai. However, it only offered a 
credit voucher for the domestic flights and accommodation in Australia.
Mr G emailed Tesco on 11 July 2020 to request a full refund. When it didnt respond, Mr G 
emailed Tesco again on 29 July 2020. He referred to his email of 11 July 2020  and 
included in full the content of his earlier email. He asked for a letter of deadlock so that he 
could refer his complaint to our service.
Tesco emailed Mr G on 7 August 2020 to say it hadnt received his email of 11 July 2020. 
Mr G replied the same day by forwarding the email he sent Tesco on 11 July 2020. He 
provided more information to support his claim by email on 16 August 2020.
Mr G referred his complaint to our service on 21 October 2020.
On 22 December 2020, T refunded £3,820.95 (and a foreign transaction fee of £105.07). 
Mr G contacted us to let us know and to amend his claim against Tesco to the outstanding 
balance of £428.16.
One of investigators upheld Mr Gs complaint. She concluded that Mr G had a valid 
chargeback right, and that Tesco could and should have initiated a chargeback. In the 
circumstances, our investigator didnt think T would have been able to present a valid 
defence to the chargeback. As it didnt initiate a chargeback, she said Tesco unfairly 
deprived Mr G of the opportunity to get a full cash refund, and recommended it pay Mr G the 
outstanding balance.
Tesco disagrees. It said it only had Mr Gs testimony, which it says, isnt enough to prove [T] 
has done something wrong in the service promised to him. And its referred to Ts terms and 
conditions, which say: Cancellation fees are likely to be incurred on all confirmed 
reservations or bookings. It says this suggests and supports that the refund [Mr G] received 
is less the fees [T] mentioned in their T&Cs at the time. And it remained of the opinion that 
the evidence [Mr G] provided Tesco was not enough to satisfy the likelihood of a successful 
Chargeback claim and we cant agree that one should be honoured.
As Tesco disagrees with our investigators recommendations, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback is one way for a credit card provider to reclaim money from a suppliers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services he paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Mastercard  
and a strict criteria and time limits apply.
The card provider isnt required to initiate a chargeback just because the consumer asks it to 
 but I think its good practice for one to be attempted when theres a reasonable prospect of 
success.
In this case, I think Tesco should have initiated a chargeback. And if it had, I think its likely it 
would have succeeded and Mr G would have received a full cash refund. Ill explain why.
First, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr G emailed Tesco on 11 July 2020 to request a full 
refund. He sent the emails of 11 July 2020 and 29 July 2020 to the same email address  
and Tesco clearly received the email of 29 July 2020. And he forwarded his email of 
11 July 2020 to the same email address on 7 August 2020. I dont know why Tesco cant find 
the email  but Im satisfied it was sent to Tesco. 
Im also satisfied that Mr G emailed Tesco on 16 August 2020, and attached e-tickets, an 
itinerary from T, and emails sent to, and received from, T regarding the cancellation and the 
request for a refund. He sent his email to the email address that Tesco told consumers to 
use if they wished to raise a dispute/Chargeback or Section 75 claim (including those 
related to Covid-19). Again, I dont know why Tesco cant find the email  but Im satisfied it 
was sent to Tesco.
Second, our investigator referred Tesco to the relevant section of Mastercards 
Chargeback Guide from May 2020, which sets out whats required to initiate a chargeback 
for Goods or Services Not Provided. To initiate a chargeback, Tesco needed a [c]ardholder 
email, letter, message or Dispute Resolution Form, which included:
A description of the cardholders complaint in sufficient detail to enable all parties to 
understand the dispute; and,
A reasonably specific description of the goods/services purchased.
The email Mr G sent Tesco on 11 July 2020  and which he forwarded to Tesco on 
7 August 2020  provided Tesco with the information it needed to initiate a chargeback. So I 
dont accept Tescos argument that it wasnt enough information for [its] Dispute Team to 
raise a dispute. In response to our investigators recommendation, Tesco said it only has 
one chance to raise a chargeback and it wanted to collect as much information and evidence 
as possible to defend a successful claim. However, this dispute is very straightforward  
and I think Tesco could and should have initiated the chargeback using the information Mr G 
provided in his initial email. In any event, Mr G provided the information and evidence that 
Tesco requested  even if Tesco says it didnt receive it  and its on this basis that Ive 
made my decision.
Third, on balance, if Tesco had initiated a chargeback, I dont think T would have been able 
to show that the dispute was invalid or otherwise defend the chargeback.In response to our investigators recommendation, Tesco used an online tool to obtain a 
copy of Ts terms and conditions that it says applied at the time. Its referred us to the terms 
and conditions about cancellation fees and refunds, which say:
Cancellation fees
3. Cancellation fees are likely to be incurred on all confirmed reservations or 
bookings. Further, some tickets may be non-refundable or non-transferable. It is 
important to check the position with us before you confirm arrangements and/or 
before you cancel your confirmed reservations.

Refunds
7. If you cancel your travel arrangements after paying for the same no refund will be 
available to you until after we receive the monies from the Principal involved. In most 
cases, fees will be payable for cancellations and in some instances, you may not be 
able to claim a refund.
Tesco says this suggests and supports its view that the refund Mr G received includes a 
deduction of certain fees that were payable on cancellation, which were mentioned in Ts 
terms and conditions at the time. I disagree. Its clear to me that these terms and conditions 
refer to what happens when the consumer cancels the holiday  not what happens when the 
travel agent and/or the Principal cancels the holiday. To suggest, as Tesco does, that T or 
the Principals can retain a cancellation fee when theyve cancelled the holiday by relying on 
these terms and conditions alone is wholly unconvincing.
Alongside its detailed rules, Mastercard helpfully issued guidance during the pandemic. The 
guidance it issued at the start of April 2020 makes it clear that there is a chargeback right 
when the cardholder prepaid for services (e.g. flight or hotel reservation) and the cardholder 
was notified that the merchant will not be able to provide the services. And it makes it clear 
that this includes situations when they are cancelled by a merchant due to government 
restrictions, insolvency or other exceptional circumstances.
There are two exceptions. First, there may not be a chargeback right if the merchant has a 
right to provide the cardholder with reasonable alternatives based on the terms and 
conditions properly disclosed to the cardholder at the time of the purchase. Second, there 
may not be a chargeback right if the merchant is required by the government to impose a 
voucher or other reasonable alternative on the cardholder in lieu of a refund.
Tesco hasnt referred me to anything in the terms and conditions that permit T or a Principal 
to offer a credit voucher instead of a cash refund for any part of the holiday  or government 
legislation or regulation that requires it. I therefore havent seen anything that suggests T 
would have been able to successfully defend a chargeback if Tesco had initiated one.
It is now too late for Tesco to initiate a chargeback. As Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr G 
would have received a full cash refund if it had initiated one when it should have done, I think 
Tesco should pay Mr G £428.16  which is the difference between the amount he paid and 
the refund hes received.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
to pay Mr G £428.16 with simple interest at 8% per year from 7 August 2020 until he receives the money.
If Tesco thinks it needs to deduct tax from the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Mr G with a certificate of tax deduction if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman