DRN-3918413
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC combined two of his loans, resulting in him paying 
more interest on his original loan.
What happened
In 2017 Mr G visited a branch of Lloyds and asked for a loan.
Mr G already had a loan with Lloyds. He says Lloyds encouraged him to merge his existing 
loan and credit card into a new loan at a higher rate of interest.
Mr G complained to Lloyds and asked it to separate the two loans and recalculate the 
original loan at the lower interest rate.
Lloyds responded and said it didnt think the loan had been mis-sold because the terms of 
the new loan including the interest rate were discussed with Mr G at the time.
Mr G remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he was satisfied that Lloyds had made 
Mr G aware of the terms of the new loan and that he understood that the rate of interest was 
higher. The investigator said that Mr G had signed the loan agreement, which set out the key 
features of the loan including the interest rate, and that he hadnt cancelled during the 
cooling off period.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he thought the loan was mis-sold because it made no sense to 
take the whole loan at a higher rate of interest. He said he thought it was only his credit card 
which was being merged into the new loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the loan applications. The first loan was taken out in October 2015 for £9,526 
with an interest rate of 4.9%. The monthly repayments on the loan were £178 and the term 
of the loan was 60 months.
The second loan was taken out in September 2017 for £10,754 with an interest rate of 
15.2%. The monthly repayments on the loan were £202 and the term of the loan was 84 
months.
Mr G also had a credit card with Lloyds. At the time of the second loan the balance was 
£1615. Mr G was making monthly payments of £50 towards the balance.
The second loan consolidated the first loan and the credit card and included additional 
borrowing.
Ive looked at the available information to see what was discussed when Mr G visited the 
branch. The application notes show that there was a discussion about the benefits of 
reducing Mr Gs monthly payments by consolidating the first loan and the credit card. The 
notes also show that the rate of interest was highlighted to Mr G and that he acknowledged 
that it was higher.
The notes also show that Mr Gs new monthly payment was discussed with him and that the 
benefit of a new monthly payment of £202 was highlighted, as compared to his current 
monthly payment on the first loan and credit card which together totalled £228 (before the 
cost of the additional borrowing).
Ive looked at the loan agreement for the second loan. It clearly sets out the total amount 
repayable, the interest rate and the term. Mr G has signed the agreement and in doing so, 
confirmed that he read and agreed to the terms. The loan agreement contained a cooling off 
period of 14 days under the Right to Withdraw so if Mr G had any doubts about entering the 
agreement he couldve cancelled. Theres nothing to suggest that he tried to do so.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr G was provided with all the information he 
needed to make an informed choice as to whether or not to take out the second loan. I 
appreciate that the interest rate was higher, but Im satisfied that this was explained to Mr G. 
And although Mr G has said that it made no sense for him to put the first loan on to a higher 
interest rate, its fair to say that the second loan resulted in a lower monthly payment overall 
for Mr G. I think this wouldve been a factor in his decision.
Mr G has also said that he didnt realise that the first loan was being included in the second 
loan and that he thought it was just the credit card. From what Ive seen in the loan 
application notes which record the discussions between Mr G and Lloyds, I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr G was given the impression that the first loan wouldnt be 
included. On the contrary, I think the notes make it clear that Mr G understood that the first 
loan was being included.
In conclusion, Im unable to say that the loan was mis-sold. I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman