DRN-1117692
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that UIA (Insurance) Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
declining Mr D's claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. They want the full cost of a 
loan they took out to fund the litigation paid by UIA.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a legal expenses insurance policy with UIA. Mr D wanted to bring an 
employment tribunal claim against his employer, and said that UIA told him this would be 
covered, subject to a positive assessment of his prospects of success. A solicitor advised 
UIA that Mr D's claim didn't have reasonable prospects of success; UIA declined the claim.
Mr D said he took out a loan to fund the litigation, and then settled his claim. Mr D thought 
that neither UIA nor the solicitor who gave the advice adequately discussed the situation with 
him to truly understand the nature of the dispute and simply relied on minutes of meetings 
they were given. He said that this was unreasonable and UIA should pay him back the full 
cost of his loan.
Mr D complained to UIA. It said the solicitor had advised that the claim didn't meet the 
requirements of the policy as it had been assessed as having less than a 50% chance of 
success. UIA pointed out that Mr D had been told if he wanted to get his own barrister's 
opinion, it would reconsider in light of that opinion, but Mr D didn't do this. UIA refused to pay 
Mr D's costs as it was reasonable to rely on the legal advice it received and Mr D didn't send 
it any further legal opinion. UIA said that the policy made it clear that it wouldn't pay any 
legal costs for which it hadn't given consent and refused to compensate Mr D. It also 
explained that it wasn't responsible for the advice given by solicitors and it was possible to 
win a case which was initially assessed as not having a reasonable prospect of success. UIA 
paid £150 compensation in respect of how it handled Mr D's complaint.
Mr D complained to us, and said that it wasn't possible to get a barrister's opinion in 
Scotland in the same way as in the rest of the UK, which was why he didn't get one. Mr D 
said that he did have a positive opinion from the solicitors that he used in the end. UIA said 
that Mr D said he didn't have an assessment from his own solicitors, and he never asked it 
to consider any assessment from any type of qualified lawyer.
The investigator's view was that UIA wasn't at fault. He said that it was fair and reasonable 
for UIA to pay for a panel solicitor to give advice about the prospects of success of Mr D's 
claim, and for it to rely on that advice. The investigator noted that the policy said if Mr D 
wasn't happy with the advice, he could pay for a barrister's opinion and if the opinion was 
positive, UIA would pay the costs and reconsider its decision (and even pay for a third 
opinion if there was a conflict). He noted that Mr D could've paid for an assessment from the 
lawyer he instructed to act on his behalf, but he never responded to UIA on this point. 
The investigator said that as the second opinion needed to have more weight than the first, it 
wasn't unfair or unreasonable for the policy to say that the second opinion had to be from a 
barrister. He pointed out that a barrister's opinion was available in Scotland (from an 
advocate), and that UIA offered to give Mr D the details of those who could assist him. The investigator also said that while Mr D was trying to expand his complaint to add additional 
points about his right to choose his own legal representation, it wasn't relevant as the issue 
in Mr D's case was about reasonable prospects of success; he never got to the point of 
getting the claim accepted.
Mr D disagreed. He said that he was denied his choice of legal representative and ignored 
that he was based in Scotland. Mr D said that UIA knew who he wanted to instruct and 
should've contacted his chosen representative to clarify the position and costs. The 
investigator didn't change his view. Mr D accepted that freedom of choice wasn't relevant but 
felt the requirement to get a barrister's opinion was unfair, particularly as he wasn't told that 
they were called advocates in Scotland.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When I refer to UIA, I'm also referring to 
its agents. I'm going to concentrate on the core of this complaint, which is about the refusal 
to accept Mr D's claim. Complaints handling isn't a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of 
this service, though I will look at whether UIA has generally behaved fairly and reasonably.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UIA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions of the policy say that the prospects of success must be greater 
than 50% to be covered. It also says that if a claim is declined on this basis, the policy holder 
can at their own cost get a barrister's opinion and it will be considered by UIA to see if the 
claim should be covered, with a third opinion paid by UIA if there's a conflict. Mr D didn't 
send any detailed opinion to UIA. The policy also does say that if legal expenses aren't 
approved by UIA, it won't pay.
UIA is an insurer, and not qualified to advise on the law. It's fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to take legal advice about a case, and the insurer isn't responsible for the advice 
given. But I also have to look at whether UIA was reasonable in relying on the advice, and 
acted fairly. The first point to bear in mind is that while Mr D says it was unreasonable to rely 
on the minutes of meetings, these are contemporaneous documents on which a tribunal 
would rely weight. And while Mr D feels the situation wasn't properly discussed with him and 
neither UIA nor the solicitor fully understood his case, the evidence shows that the solicitor 
asked for additional information (which was received) and both UIA and the solicitor 
understood the case Mr D wanted to bring. The advice is lengthy and detailed, and I note 
after it was received by Mr D, the solicitor entered into further correspondence and answered 
Mr D's points, explaining her position further.
The solicitor who advised was suitably qualified to do, and gave reasons for their view. 
There's nothing within that advice that a layman would think was obviously incorrect. I can't 
say that it was unfair or unreasonable for UIA to rely on the professional advice it received. I 
would also point out that ultimately Mr D and his employer chose to settle the case; this 
doesn't mean that the insurer relying on advice that there wasn't reasonable prospects of 
success acted unfairly or unreasonably or that the claim would definitely have been 
successful in the tribunal; settlements are reached for a variety of reasons.
Mr D was told that he could get a second opinion from a barrister at his own cost. There's no 
real difference between a barrister and an advocate. While I personally wouldn't describe a 
barrister of being of a higher standing than a solicitor (the two have different roles and are both worthy of respect as qualified lawyers), I note that Mr D never forwarded a detailed 
assessment of his claim from any suitably qualified lawyer to UIA. It isn't for UIA to contact 
Mr D's chosen representative and try to sort matters out; that obligation is on the policy 
holder.
The policy requires a barrister's opinion, which is available in Scotland, and I can't say that's 
unfair or unreasonable. Mr D was offered the contact details of those who could assist him, 
but he didn't ask for them. I disagree that it was unfair to use the term "barrister" - it is easy 
to find out (as Mr D did) what a barrister is and their equivalent in Scotland, and Mr D was 
offered contact details and had a solicitor advising him.
Mr D's chosen representative was a solicitor, not an advocate, so an opinion from it wouldn't 
meet the terms of the policy.  In any event, even Mr D's chosen representative accepts that 
no detailed opinion was sent to UIA from him by Mr D and Mr D accepts that he didn't 
respond to UIA's email about getting a second opinion. UIA never received any legal opinion 
challenging the assessment of the panel solicitor, and it can only proceed on the basis of 
what it knew at the time. It wasn't unfair or unreasonable for UIA to rely on the panel 
solicitor's view.
I agree with the investigator that Mr D's additional point (which technically wasn't part of the 
complaint he brought to UIA) about his choice of legal representative is not relevant as for 
Mr D to able to choose his representative, the claim would have to be assessed as having 
reasonable prospects of success. It wasn't unfair or unreasonable for UIA to pay for its own 
panel solicitor to give that assessment as the right to appoint your choice of legal 
representative doesn't apply to this stage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman