DRN-2188083
The complaint
A business, that Ill refer to as L, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined its claim 
for business interruption. Mr C has brought the complaint to us on Ls behalf.
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions impacted the types of business L could carry out. So, having previously 
been advised to take business interruption insurance, it made a claim under this cover, 
which was underwritten by Aviva. 
In April 2020, Aviva declined Ls claim. It said that the policy L had purchased covered it 
primarily for business interruption arising from damage to its premises or property. And it 
didnt consider that Covid-19 could be considered damage by the policy definition. 
It said theres cover for certain situations which lead to a prevention or restriction of access 
to, or closure of, the premises, but not where such action was taken to control, prevent or 
suppress the spread of disease. And whilst theres business interruption cover for certain 
kinds of disease occurring at, or within five miles of, the premises, Covid-19 wasnt one of 
the specified diseases included in the list of diseases the policy covers.
L complained to Aviva, but it didnt change its mind. It then complained to our service, but 
our investigator felt Aviva had applied the terms fairly. L disagreed. It said it had been led to 
believe any business interruption would be covered. It felt that the terms were unfair, and 
that the outcome of the test case brought by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) should 
be interpreted in its favour. It added that there was a risk it could go out of business if the 
claim wasnt paid. 
I therefore need to make a final decision. 
This decision will only address the outcome of Ls claim to Aviva. I understand L has also 
raised concerns about the sale of the policy. As the policy was sold by a third party, this will 
be considered separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on L had a considerable financial impact, 
and Im very sorry to hear about that. Ive carried out a careful review of the terms of its 
policy to decide whether there are any sections that would require Aviva to meet its claim. 
Ive kept in mind the FCA litigation, and the consequences my decision could have on L.  
Damage
The core business interruption cover in Ls policy is for:
Loss of Income or increased Expenses resulting from Damage to property used 
by you at Your Premises Such damage must occur during the Period of Insurance, 
and be caused by an Insured Event(s) which is not excluded by the Property 
Damage Section of this policy 
I can see damage is defined in the policy as physical loss, destruction or damage. I havent 
seen anything to indicate Covid-19 has caused damage (by this definition) to Ls property. 
So, Im satisfied this section of the policy doesnt cover Ls claim. 
Prevention of access  damage 
This section of the policy covers L for business interruption caused by:
Damage by any cause included under the Property Damage section to property 
within one mile of the boundary of Your Premises which physically prevents or 
restricts access to, or use of, Your Premises. 
Ive already set out that I dont find the presence of Covid-19 to be consistent with the policy 
definition of damage. So, Im satisfied Ls claim wouldnt be covered under this term either. 
Specified illnesses
This section of the policy covers L for business interruption caused by: 
A Specified Disease occurring at Your Premises or within five miles of the boundary 
of Your Premises
It goes on to say:
For the purposes of this cover, Specified Disease means any of the following 
diseases contracted by any person
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chicken pox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Erysipeloid, Legionellosis, Legionnaires, Disease Leprosy, Leptospirosis, 
Lyme Disease, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal septicaemia, Mumps, 
Ophthalmia neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, Puerperal fever, Plague, Rabies, 
Relapsing fevers, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Toxoplasmosis, 
Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral hepatitis, Whooping cough, Yellow 
fever
Viral haemorrhagic fever caused by the following viruses: Lassa virus, Junin virus, 
Machupo virus, Sabia virus, Guanarito virus, Ebola virus, Marburg virus, Crimean-
Congo, haemorrhagic fever virus, Hanta virus, Rift Valley fever virus, Yellow fever 
virus, Dengue virus. 
As Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases included in this list, Im satisfied this section 
of the policy wouldnt cover the business interruption caused as a result of the restrictions 
introduced by the Government to combat the spread of Covid-19. I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something Aviva might have known about when the policy was 
drafted, and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases, which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19. In contrast, Ls policy sets out a specified list of diseases 
which are covered and theres nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for 
diseases not on the list, including any new diseases which emerge. 
So, on balance, Im persuaded that the purpose and effect of the list is to provide cover in 
the event of these particular diseases. And I dont think the policy can or should fairly be 
read as covering any and all diseases.  
Prevention of access  emergency events
This section of the policy covers L for business interruption caused by: 
The prevention or restriction of access to, or closure of, Your Premises, by any 
Police, Government or other competent Authority, due to an emergency event within 
one mile of the boundary of Your Premises that causes or threatens a danger or 
disturbance.
It goes on to say:
We will not provide cover for action taken in controlling, preventing or suppressing 
the spread of any disease. 
This means cover is provided for situations where, due to an emergency event that causes 
or threatens danger or disturbance, the Police, Government or another competent Authority 
prevent or restrict access to, or close, Ls premises. But this cover is limited by exclusions. 
The exclusion Ive referred to above means that any prevention or restriction of access to, or 
closure of, Ls premises that were taken to control, prevent or suppress the spread of a 
disease, wont be covered under this section. 
Covid-19 is a disease, and the restrictions imposed from March 2020 were intended to 
control, prevent and suppress the spread of Covid-19. So, Im satisfied the exclusion would 
apply here, even if I were to conclude the terms of this section of the policy had been met.  
FCA litigation
The FCAs test case only affected claims made under a relevant non-damage business 
interruption policy (my emphasis). Furthermore, it didnt seek to resolve coverage issues 
relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of diseases which does not include Covid-19. 
So, I dont think its relevant to my findings under the first three sub-headings above. 
Whilst it did consider non-damage prevention of access clauses, Avivas policy wording 
wasnt one of the sample wordings considered. Im satisfied Avivas policy wording contains 
an exclusion it could rely on to decline Ls claim.
Whilst I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to L, I havent found that any 
sections of its policy require Aviva to cover its claim. I dont consider the different sections of 
the policy that Ive addressed in this decision to be inherently unfair. And whilst I appreciate 
L says it was led to believe any business interruption would be covered, Aviva wasnt 
responsible for selling the policy. So, I wont be asking Aviva to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman