DRN-3653076
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way in which AmTrust Europe Limited dealt with a claim he made 
under the legal expenses part of a Home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt references to AmTrust includes the acts carried out by agents on 
its behalf.
What happened
Mr C had an employment dispute with his employer. He made a claim for assistance under 
his legal expenses cover. Mr Cs dissatisfaction with AmTrust, in summary, is as follows:
He feels it unfair that AmTrust wouldnt allow him to obtain a prospects of success 
opinion from his chosen solicitor.
Hes unhappy that AmTrust said hed have to use a barrister for the opinion which 
AmTrust would pay for.
He feels AmTrust discriminated against him by not enabling reasonable adjustments, 
such as him being able to use his own solicitor.
In summary, AmTrusts position is as follows:
It offered the services of a panel solicitor to carry out the prospects of success 
opinion, which is a condition before a claim can proceed.
Panel solicitors explained they could accommodate emails and video meetings, but if 
the matter progressed and a face to face meeting was necessary this could be 
arranged.
It then sent terms of business to Mr Cs chosen solicitor, but Mr C stated that 
according to his solicitor a prospects opinion wasnt appropriate as early conciliation 
was underway.
It requested an independent legal opinion but not from Mr Cs solicitor and shortly 
after agreed to pay for a barrister of Mr Cs choosing to provide an opinion.
Our investigator didnt think AmTrust had acted unfairly, in summary, saying:
The policy was clear that AmTrust would appoint panel solicitors, but Mr C could 
choose his own solicitor once court proceedings are issued.
AmTrust didnt refuse Mr Cs request to use his own solicitor but advised the case 
would only be transferred when court proceedings were issued.
In Mr Cs particular personal circumstances, she wasnt persuaded that the intended  
appointment of panel solicitors was unfair and didnt think it was reasonable to expect 
AmTrust to cover legal fees for Mr Cs chosen solicitor when proceedings werent 
necessary as the matter was at such an early stage.
Panel solicitors were only being asked to provide a prospects of success opinion and 
so there wasnt any prejudice to Mr Cs proposed claim in establishing whether 
prospects existed or not. This was a fundamental condition of cover.
She didnt think it unfair or unreasonable that AmTrust asked for a barristers opinion 
rather than one from Mr Cs solicitor. The barrister appeared suitably qualified in the 
employment law field. And AmTrust wasnt under a contractual duty to pay for the 
barrister but agreed to do so in Mr Cs circumstances.
She was satisfied that AmTrust had made reasonable adjustments to enable Mr Cs 
claim to be assessed in line with the policy.
She was satisfied AmTrust had acted in line with the policy terms.
Mr C disagreed, in summary, making the following point:
The panel solicitors were around 4 hours from him and a conflict of interest with the 
original panel firm should have enabled him to use his own solicitor who has provided 
opinions in the past for AmTrust.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should state from the outset that Mr C has responded in more detail than my summaries 
above and Ive read these in full. The crux of the complaint I have to determine is whether 
AmTrust has acted within the policy terms and overall, fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The starting point for the relationship between Mr C and AmTrust is the contract of 
insurance. This sets out the terms and conditions under which the parties agree to conduct 
their relationship. Theres no issue taken that employment disputes are insured events but 
as with all insurance policies there are terms and conditions that explain, limit and restrict 
what AmTrust will cover and in what circumstances.
Like all other legal expenses policies Ive seen, Mr Cs includes a condition that he only has 
cover where there is a more than 50% chance of winning the case and achieving a positive 
outcome. Under employment disputes and where there are reasonable prospects of 
success, the policy covers standard advisers costs to pursue a legal action. The terms 
in bold are further defined, in summary, as the level of costs that would normally be incurred 
in using a specialist panel solicitor or their agents in pursuing Mr Cs legal case.
It's clear then that before Mr C benefits from cover under the policy his claim must have 
been assessed as having more than a 50% chance of success. And, included in the 
conditions, theres a requirement that Mr C supplies all information that AmTrust reasonably 
requires to decide whether a claim may be accepted. Ordinarily, this assessment is carried out by AmTrusts panel solicitor at no cost to Mr C. There is though provision for Mr C to 
appoint his own legal adviser subject to a condition that AmTrust will only pay its standard 
advisers costs and AmTrust shall appoint the adviser to act on Mr Cs behalf. Finally, of 
relevance, is that AmTrust is only liable for Mr Cs advisers costs for work expressly 
authorised by AmTrust in writing and undertaken while there are prospects of success. So, 
its tacit from this that AmTrust is under no obligation to pay Mr Cs costs should he wish to 
obtain his own legal opinion on the prospects of success.
This brings me then to points Mr C has raised in his complaint against AmTrust:
He feels it unfair that AmTrust wouldnt allow him to obtain a prospects of success 
opinion from his chosen solicitor.
The reality on this point is not so much the case that AmTrust wouldnt allow Mr Cs chosen 
solicitor to provide an opinion simply that it wouldnt accept this as it wanted an independent 
legal opinion. AmTrust advised Mr C that in other cases it had where his chosen solicitor 
was involved there was still an independent legal on prospects which wasnt provided by his 
chosen solicitor. I appreciate Mr Cs point that he believes his solicitor is independent as he's 
a third party separate from AmTrust. But AmTrust was acting within the policy terms by not 
accepting prospects from his solicitor and indeed it was offering to pay for a barrister 
independent of both Mr C and AmTrust as an alternative. In these circumstances Im 
satisfied AmTrust acted fairly in specifying that the legal opinion needed to come from an 
independent source. This is within the discretion of what the policy allows.
Hes unhappy that AmTrust said hed have to use a barrister for the opinion which 
AmTrust would pay for.
This is very much linked with the above issue and Im not persuaded it was unfair of AmTrust 
to require an independent legal opinion from a barrister, particularly given it was paying the 
barristers fee in full which was apparently more than panel solicitors would have cost. I 
make no adverse finding against AmTrust on this point. 
He feels AmTrust discriminated against him by not enabling reasonable adjustments, 
such as him being able to use his own solicitor.
I must take into account relevant law, but its not my role to make a finding about whether the 
Equality Act 2010 has been breached, thats for the courts. Given its apparent that Mr C has 
a protected characteristic (disability - Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)) the Equality Act is a 
relevant consideration. 
Its possible a court may find that AmTrusts policy of sending prospective claims to a panel 
solicitor to assess whether that claim has prospects of success puts those with Mr Cs 
disability at a disadvantage compared to those customers without ASD. But Im not 
proposing to make a finding on what a court is likely to say because Im satisfied AmTrusts 
policy to request a prospects of success opinion from a panel solicitor at no cost to the 
policyholder, didnt put Mr S at a disadvantage in all the circumstances.
The process requires Mr C to provide AmTrust with information he already had in his 
possession or direct access to if not in his possession. There was no cost to him in having 
panel solicitors give an expert opinion on the facts of his case, and theres no necessity to 
have any meeting or fact-finding conversation for the panel solicitors to have had with him. 
They simply provide an assessment based on the information that Mr C was asked to send. 
And as the panel solicitors made clear, should the need for a face to face meeting arise in 
the event there were prospects and the litigation moves forward, that could be facilitated. Indeed, Mr C was happy to communicate by email and that wasnt an issue as it was 
something the solicitors and AmTrust were able and willing to do. In addition, Mr C was 
originally happy for the first recommended panel solicitors to provide an assessment, but 
they couldnt act due to a conflict of interest. The fact that the second firm of panel solicitors 
were further away from Mr C geographically wasnt a disadvantage in terms of a prospects 
opinion being provided given there was no requirement for a face to face meeting as, like the 
original panel solicitors, the assessment would be based on the information Mr C was to 
provide.
Ive also thought about if it could be considered AmTrusts process puts those with Mr Cs 
protected characteristic at a particular disadvantage in law, Im required to determine what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And as such my determination remains that Im 
not persuaded Mr C has been treated unfairly. AmTrust did enable Mr C to obtain a 
prospects assessment from an independent barrister of his choosing and covered the cost of 
this. As such, Im not persuaded Mr C has in anyway been disadvantaged because of his 
disability.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman