DRN-1877741
 
The complaint
Mr A says that after he applied for a credit card from Barclays Bank Plc trading as 
Barclaycard (Barclays Bank), it refused to tell him what his credit card limit would be until 
he activated it. When the card was activated, Mr A says he didnt get the credit limit hed 
applied for.
What happened
Mr A applied for a credit card with Barclays Bank that was accepted on 7 January 2019.
On 8 January 2019, Mr A called Barclays Bank to chase the acceptance of his application 
and in this call Barclays Bank told him the card had been accepted with a credit limit of 
£1,200. Mr A asked if the credit card limit could be increased as he intended to use the card 
for a balance transfer of about £3,000. Barclays Bank told him that this was an option, but it 
couldnt consider this until the card had been activated, and any increase was not 
guaranteed. Barclays Bank confirmed it had sent the card to his home address.
Mr A called Barclays Bank on 10 January 2019 to confirm he had received the card, but he 
wanted a credit limit increase to £3,000. In this telephone call, Mr A confirmed to Barclays 
Bank that it hadnt promised a limit of £3,000. Barclays Bank told Mr A he could make an 
instant request for the credit limit to be increased, but that this would be subject to credit 
checks and credit reference information. Mr A declined this option, and said he felt the 
increase would be declined. Barclays Bank provided Mr A with a freephone telephone 
number so that he could talk to a specialist team, who would consider the request before the 
credit card was activated. Mr A told Barclays Bank he would talk to the specialist team, then 
call back to activate his card.
Mr A called Barclays Bank on 11 January 2019 and requested an increase in the credit card 
limit to £3,000. Barclays Bank told Mr A that as this was a new card, it was unlikely an 
increase in the limit would be allowed. But it transferred the call a specialist team, who would 
consider the request.
The credit card was activated on 11 January 2019 at 19:11, and a request to increase the 
card limit was declined at 19:30.
Mr A made a further request to increase the card limit to £2,000 on 12 January 2019, but 
Barclays Bank declined this request. And Barclays Bank declined a further request on 19 
January 2019 to increase the limit to £1,500.
Mr A says that during the telephone calls with Barclays Bank, he was told that if he 
complained about its decision to provide a credit limit of £1,200, it would be increased. 
Mr A says that Barclays Bank told him he would need to activate his card before it could 
consider a further request to increase the limit, and he felt pressured into accepting the lower 
limit. 
He complained to Barclays Bank and it didnt uphold the complaint. It says it offered a credit 
limit of £1,200 to Mr A before activation and he accepted it when he activated the card. 
Barclays Bank says that over the following weeks, Mr A made further applications to 
increase the card limit, but each request was declined.
Our investigator considered the evidence and thought Barclays Bank didnt do anything 
significantly wrong. Before activating the credit card, Mr A was given the opportunity to apply 
for an increase, but he declined. Our investigator considered Mr A knew his credit limit was 
£1,200, and not £3,000, and he then made the decision to activate the card on this basis, 
and then apply for an increase in the limit.
Mr A doesnt accept the investigators view and says that Barclays Bank told him to keep 
complaining and it would increase his limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules governing credit limits and responsible lending are set by the industry regulator - 
the Financial Conduct Authority. Ive looked at what steps Barclays Bank took in response to 
Mr As requests to increase his credit limit from the £1,200 the bank initially approved. Ive 
considered whether Barclays Bank made a mistake in this individual situation, and whether 
Mr A has lost out because of this.
Barclays Bank had previously explained in its terms and conditions that it would tell Mr A 
what the limit would be when the account was first opened. It explained the limit would be 
set according to his personal circumstances, account usage and history, information from 
other parts of the Barclays group, information from credit reference agencies, and other 
information it thought relevant.
The terms and conditions in respect of a balance transfer explained the offer would depend 
on Mr As credit status, which is affected by how he managed accounts with Barclays Bank, 
and/or other lenders.
I have seen no evidence to persuade me Barclays Bank told Mr A that he would have a 
credit limit of £3,000. This may have well been what Mr A wanted, but Barclays Bank made it 
reasonably clear that any credit limit depends on several factors, and the limit would be set 
when these factors had been considered and the account opened.
I have listened to the telephone calls between Mr A and Barclays Bank from 2 to 11 January 
2019. Mr A feels there may have been calls as early as December 2018 in which the new 
applications team at Barclays Bank told him he should complain about his credit limit to get 
an increase. However, the limit on the card wasnt accepted until 7 January 2019, and Ive 
not seen anything to support an increase to the limit being discussed until 8 January 2019. 
I am satisfied that the call recordings Barclays Bank provided are enough for me to make a 
fair and reasonable decision on Mr As complaint about the credit limit being less than he 
applied for, and in respect of Barclays Bank telling him he couldnt ask for a further increase 
until the card had been activated.
On 8 January 2019, Barclays Bank told Mr A he had an option to increase his credit limit 
once the card had been activated. 
The evidence Barclays Bank has provided shows that several on-line attempts were made to 
activate the card on 10 January 2019, but these werent successful. This evidence is 
sensitive information from internal bank systems that I cannot share with Mr A. However, it 
clearly shows attempts were made to activate the card on 10 January 2019.
When Mr A called Barclays Bank on 10 January 2019 to activate his card, it told him he 
could apply for an instant increase in the card limit, but it may mean additional credit checks. And these may include reference to a credit reference agency. Mr A said he didnt wish to 
take up the offer of an instant request for an increase as he felt it would be declined. 
Barclays Bank provided Mr A with a direct access telephone number for a specialist team 
who dealt with pre-activation matters.
On the 11 January 2019, Mr A called Barclays Bank, the card was activated and an increase 
to a £3,000 credit limit was declined by Barclays Bank.
Having listened to the telephone calls I have referred to, I have heard nothing to persuade 
me Barclays Bank told Mr A that the credit limit would be increased if he complained. I did 
hear Barclays Bank tell Mr A that an increase could be considered before the card had been 
activated, but Mr A declined to do this. Regardless of this, I am satisfied by 8 January 2019 
Mr A knew the credit limit was going to be £1,200. And Mr A had attempted to activate the 
card on-line and failed. By 11 January 2019, the card had been activated and potential 
balance transfers started.
I can appreciate that Mr A was disappointed that Barclays Bank didnt agree the £3,000 limit 
he applied for. And that after he activated his credit card Barclays Bank declined further 
request for increases. However, Barclays Bank didnt at any time during the application 
process provide any guarantee it would agree this limit. Nor did Barclays bank make any 
promise it would increase the limit after the card had been activated. And it isnt required to 
explain to Mr A why it didnt approve the initial £3,000 limit, or any other limit Mr A 
subsequently applied for. This is commercially sensitive information.
I dont think the information Barclays Bank provided could reasonably have led Mr A to 
believe his credit limit would be £3,000. Barclays Bank made it clear the credit limit would 
depend on Mr As credit status. I am satisfied Barclays Bank made it clear to Mr A he could 
apply for an increase instantly when he called on 10 January 2019, but this may not result in 
an increase being agreed. This was before the card was activated, and Mr A declined this 
option. The card was activated late on 11 January 2019, and an increase to the limit was 
declined shortly after. But by this time Mr A had accepted the £1,200 and begun the process 
of making balance transfers.
I dont consider Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard has done anything wrong in 
respect of this complaint, so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020. 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman