DRN-4389034
The complaint
Miss P complains that the software in a car acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited VWFS) was incompatible with her phone.
What happened
In May 2022 Miss P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS.
In October 2022 Miss P raised concerns because she was unable to connect her new 
phone.
The dealership advised Miss P that the vehicles software wasnt compatible with her phone 
and that a software update would be required, but that as yet there was no release date for 
the software update.
Miss P complained to VWFS and asked to reject the car.
In its final response VWFS said there were no faults with the car and no grounds to reject it.
Miss P complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained that although there was a compatibility 
issue with the software and Miss Ps phone, there was no evidence that the software was 
faulty or that the car wasnt functioning as intended. I said that there wasnt enough evidence 
to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality so I couldnt recommend a rejection of the 
car. But I did recognise that Miss Ps use and enjoyment of the car has been impaired 
because of the compatibility issues. I acknowledged that VWFS had made an offer of £500 
to compensate Miss P for this but said I didnt think this sum was sufficient because there 
was no guarantee as to if or when the software update would be available, and this had left 
Miss P in an uncertain position where she may well experience the compatibility issue 
throughout the agreement.
I said that I thought the fairest way to resolve Miss Ps complaint was for VWFS to refund 5% 
of all the monthly payments made by Miss P so far in addition to paying her the £500 
previously offered. I also said that as soon as the software update becomes available this 
should be applied to Miss Ps car at no cost to Miss P.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence they wished to rely on or arguments 
they wished to raise.
Miss P replied and accepted my decision. VWFS replied and said it had no further evidence 
to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any further arguments or submitted any further evidence. In the 
circumstances I havent changed my mind and Im recommending that VWFS put things right 
for Miss P in the manner I set out inn my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must;
Refund 5% of all monthly payments made by Miss P to date to reflect impaired use and 
enjoyment
Pay £500 compensation to Miss P (if not paid already)
Install the software update as soon as it becomes available at no cost to Miss P
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman