DRN-4096316
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt recover a 
payment made in error.
What happened
S contacted NatWest to explain that a payment for £2,820 it made on 11 August 2022 had 
been sent to the wrong account at another bank. It is unhappy that NatWest hasnt 
recovered the payment and says it has had to make it again.
NatWest said that it had tried to recall the payment. But that the receiving bank told it that 
this wasnt possible. The only reason it had been given was due to sensitivity on the 
account. It accepts it wrongly told S that it hadnt attempted to recall the payment due to a 
systems error. But it had made the recall request on 12 August 2022 and couldnt make this 
again.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part and S be paid £150 for 
the service issues. NatWest agreed to pay this. S hadnt been told the outcome promptly and 
wrongly thought that the claim hadnt been dealt with correctly. The outcome hadnt been 
affected. She had contacted the receiving bank to see if any more clarity about what had 
happened could be provided but there was no further information.
S didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. The compensation for the service 
issues was fine but it wanted its money back too. And for further efforts to be made to 
achieve this. It said that the receiving bank should give further information about what 
happened to the money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is industry guidance about dealing with a misdirected payment like this. NatWest is 
expected to make reasonable efforts to recover the money once it is alerted to the error. And 
it should be refunded by the receiving bank if it is still available, and the actual recipient 
doesnt dispute what happened. There is no guarantee that this will be successful.
Im satisfied that NatWest followed the appropriate process here to attempt to recover the 
money. It wasnt able to and with a delay it told S what the receiving bank has said. I note 
that the director of S discussed with NatWest what he thought had happened to the account 
and payee involved but none of that information came from or could be confirmed by 
NatWest to him.
NatWest had exhausted its process. But unfortunately, it initially gave S incorrect information 
about that. Our investigator has since asked the receiving bank if it has any further 
information. Shes not had a response and that bank isnt a party to this complaint. 
I appreciate what S says about the loss, but Im afraid that this loss isnt due to any error by 
NatWest. And as a result, its not something we are going to be able to assist with in a 
complaint about NatWest. I consider that the compensation for the service issues is 
reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require National Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay S £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman