DRN-2037633
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard closed his account 
without warning and havent provided a satisfactory reason for doing so. 
Mr M also complains about the level of service he received from Barclaycard in relation to 
this matter.
Barclaycard have paid £165 in compensation to Mr M, but he is unhappy with this amount.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr M and Barclaycard, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its relevant to the 
issues I need to deal with. 
Our investigator thought Barclaycard had acted fairly and reasonably and didnt think they 
needed to do anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. He also asked for the following complaint points to be 
looked at in more detail:
Loss of access to the Barclaycard app 
Online banking message showing an incorrect statement balance
Changing the repayment date on the account
Letters not received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate. I have considered 
both sides views in considering whether Barclaycard acted fairly and reasonably. Ive looked 
at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I think Barclaycard 
has paid Mr M suitable compensation for the mistakes it did make, and Ill explain why.
Account closure
Barclaycard are entitled to make a commercial decision about closing accounts, using their 
own criteria and internal processes to determine this. This information can be commercially 
sensitive so its often not possible to get a specific answer to explain why an account has 
been closed.
Barclaycards process required them to write to Mr M to inform him of the closure of the 
account. I can see that they did write to him, although the letter was not received by Mr M, 
so Ive looked at this in more detail below. 
Mr M also told us he was given two different reasons for the closure of the account. 
Barclaycard agreed that this was an error on their behalf and have apologised to him. Whilst 
it was frustrating for Mr M to be given two different reasons for the closure, it doesnt change 
the fact that Barclaycard were entitled to close the account in line with its terms and 
conditions. 
In this instance, Barclaycard have told us that they closed the account as it no longer met 
their lending criteria. This is all Barclaycard are required to do. They arent required to go 
into any more detail or explain how their processes work. So, I cant say they have done 
anything wrong in relation to closing the account.
I can see that the closure of the account led to a number of other issues that have caused 
Mr M upset and have taken him time to deal with. So Ive looked at some of those issues in 
more detail below.
Barclaycard App
I understand Mr M can no longer access Barclaycards mobile banking app which has been 
a source of frustration for him. Hes told us that having access to the app would make it 
easier for him to make payments and to check his balance. Whilst I understand that this is 
inconvenient for Mr M, I can see that he still has access to online and telephone banking so I 
cant say that Barclaycard have stopped him from accessing this information.
Mr M also told us that Barclaycard gave him several different reasons for his access being 
removed and that he spent time chasing them for an answer about why he couldnt access 
the app.
I agree that Barclaycard shouldve told Mr M sooner that he wouldnt have access to the app. 
However, I can see they told Mr M that even if the technical issues with the app were 
resolved, it was likely he would no longer have access to the app due to the account being 
closed. 
Although this is inconvenient, I cant say that Barclaycard have treated Mr M unfairly. Mr M 
still has a number of ways to access this information, Barclaycard have apologised, and 
compensation has been paid to him for the inconsistent answers he was given. So, I wont 
be asking Barclaycard to do anything more in respect of this aspect of the complaint.
Online banking message showing an incorrect statement balance
I understand that in February 2020 Mr M received a message on his online banking saying 
the outstanding balance on the account was £206.92. The previous statement balance was 
£281.17. There was a disputed payment of £63.75 in January 2020 and this is the reason for 
the inaccuracy in the balance that was displayed.
Not all transactions appear in real time on the account and there was an ongoing 
investigation into this disputed payment. Therefore, the balance shown on the online banking 
was different to the previous statement as the online banking message hadnt taken this 
disputed payment into account. 
I dont think Barclaycard have treated Mr M unfairly here as he knew from the previous 
statement how much was due on the account and he hadnt made any payments to reduce 
it, so there was no reason why the account balance wouldve been the lower amount.
Changing the repayment date on the accountThe terms and conditions of the credit card account set out that Barclaycard can change 
your payment due date by changing your statement date. You cannot change your 
statement date if you have changed it twice in the last 12 months, or you have already 
changed it during the current or previous statement period.
I can see that Barclaycard had agreed to change Mr Ms payment date on two previous 
occasions to accommodate his changing paydays. One of those changes had to be 
overridden by a manager as it breached Barclaycards policy.
I understand Mr M was frustrated Barclaycard wouldnt change the date for him a third time 
and Mr M eventually spoke to a manager who did change it for him. However, I dont think 
Barclaycard treated Mr M unfairly here. Barclaycard were following their internal processes 
when they refused to change the date and it was a gesture of goodwill that led to the 
manager overriding this. 
Letters not received 
It mustve been extremely frustrating for Mr M not to receive letters from Barclaycard, 
especially the one detailing the account closure. I dont doubt that Mr M didnt receive these 
letters, but Ive had a look through the information Barclaycard provided and I can see that 
there is a record and reference on their system for all letters they have sent to Mr M -  
including the missing ones. I have also checked that the address they hold for him is correct.
On balance, I think it is likely that the letters were posted but never delivered. Barclays have 
apologised to Mr M and resent the missing letters. They have also credited his account with 
a £50 gesture of goodwill despite being unable to find any fault on their part. As such I will 
not be asking Barclaycard to do anything further in this regard.
Conclusion
Barclaycard were entitled to close the account in line with its terms and conditions. However, 
there is no doubt there have been some service failings along the way, including issues with 
call backs and long hold times. And I know that dealing with these issues has been 
frustrating and time consuming for Mr M. 
Nevertheless, I can see that Barclaycard have apologised, fixed any errors where it was 
possible and paid a total of £165 in compensation to Mr M for the issues he has 
encountered. I think this is a fair and reasonable award in the circumstances. So, Im not 
going to ask Barclaycard to make a further payment to Mr M as they have, in my view, dealt 
with the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021. 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman