DRN-3797936
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lendable Ltd are pursuing him for a loan that was taken out as part of a 
scam. Mr B wants Lendable to clear the loan, interest and charges because the scammers 
told him he wouldnt have to pay any money back. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr B was interested in making some investments and came into contact with a merchant 
online. He was told to apply for a loan with Lendable because it was a branch of the 
merchant he was speaking to and that he wouldnt have to repay any money. 
Mr B then agreed to download software giving the merchant access to his device. On 
18 June 2022 a loan was taken out for £5,000 with a total of £5,370 to be repaid and a 
monthly repayment of £182.35. Later in June 2022 Mr B contacted Lendable to say that he 
wasnt aware of the loan and that he was surprised a direct debit had been set up to repay 
the funds. Mr B said that he had been scammed and wanted the loan to be cleared. 
Lendable considered the complaint. It said it had frozen the interest on the loan indefinitely. 
But that it had fairly held Mr B liable for the loan. Lendable also offered to waive the loan fee 
and the interest that had accrued on the loan prior to it being frozen as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr B was unhappy with the offer and brought his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr B has said that he 
signed and submitted a loan application to Lendable and when the funds arrived in his 
account, he sent it to the scammers. The investigator said that Lendable had agreed to clear 
the interest and charges on the loan which she thought was fair. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that the scammers told him 
that they were linked to Lendable and that he didnt have to pay the loan back. He said he 
did as much due diligence into the scammers as he could and the scammers used the 
software he had downloaded to tell him how to complete the application. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not asking Lendable to do anything further, and Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
To decide this complaint, I need to consider whether Mr B agreed to take out this loan and to 
be bound by the terms and conditions. 
I note Mr B downloaded software which enabled the scammers to help him with the 
application for the loan. I understand he says he did his due diligence into the scammers by 
looking into the merchant involved in the scam and reaching out to who he thought were 
board members. But when he raised the complaint with Lendable, he said he was aware of 
the application with Lendable at the time it was applied for and that he was assured he didnt 
have to repay it. And that he was guided through the application by the scammers. 
Ive considered Mr Bs testimony carefully. But having done so I dont think I can reasonably 
say to Lendable that he didnt agree to take out the loan when it was applied for. The 
application was completed by Mr B and was in his name as he pointed out in his messages 
to the scammers. But he still went ahead and agreed to be bound by the terms and 
conditions. 
So, Im satisfied Mr B willingly applied for this loan. That means Lendable can fairly ask him 
to repay the capital amount it paid into Mr Bs account. I note that Lendable has agreed to 
waive the interest and charges in the circumstances. And I think thats a fair offer.  
I know this will not be the outcome Mr B was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. I understand this has been a very difficult experience for him. But this 
final decision ends what our service can do for him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman