DRN-4095586
The complaint
Mr K complains about several service issues with Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis).
What happened
Mr K had a credit card from Vanquis. In October 2021, the balance was £3,454 and the limit
was £3,500. Mr K ran into financial difficulty and in October 2021, Vanquis agreed a
payment plan which included monthly payments of £34 per month. In April 2022, this was
extended for a further four months through to August 2022. Interest was charged in October
2021 (£97.00); November 2021 (£55.51); April 2022 (£34.18) and May 2022 (£15.54).
Monthly payments were all made on time. In May 2022 and June 2022, the payment was
duplicated as an additional monthly payment of £34 was made by debit card. This was
refunded both times to Mr Ks bank account.
Mr K complained. He said 1) Interest shouldnt have been charged when he was on a
payment plan 2) he couldnt access his account while on the payment plans and so couldnt
monitor his account. This meant he didnt realise that payments to the account were
duplicated. He had been told that this was because he was on a payment plan  but that
was an error. Vanquis later told him it was because he had entered the wrong password. He
said that couldnt be the reason - as he hadnt changed it and was certain it was correct. 3)
the duplicated payments to the account were an error by Vanquis 4) Several calls with
Vanquis dropped out 5) Vanquis response to his complaint didnt deal with the charging of
interest or the duplicated payments.
Vanquis said that Mr K couldnt access his account online because he entered the password
incorrectly. They apologised that Mr K had wrongly been told it was because he was on a
payment plan. They apologised for some of the calls dropping out  which may have been
due to connection problems. They had tried to call Mr K back but without success. On the
monthly payments, £34 was paid monthly under a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA). But
in May 2022, this was duplicated as a debit card payment was also made. Vanquis paid
compensation of £75 for the matters they addressed in the final response.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Vanquis acted reasonably in dealing
with the complaint. Theyd dealt with the various issues; and in addition he noted that
Vanquis refunded interest of £232.82 in June 2022.
Mr K didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. So it has come to me
to do that.
I made a provisional decision which said:
I will deal with Mr Ks complaint points in turn:
Interest charged when he was on a payment plan:
I can see that Mr K entered a payment plan in October 2021 which included payments of
£34 each month. I asked Vanquis for evidence that theyd set out the terms of the payment
plan to Mr K in writing  but unfortunately, they couldnt provide anything. I can see the
agreement to the payment plans were made on the phone  Vanquis call notes show this. I
listened to the call which set up the second payment plan  on 12 April 2022. The call
handler, while professional and helpful, didnt state whether interest would be charged or
not. But I agree  in such circumstances, it would be normal practice not to charge interest
on a payment plan. And in the call on 20 June 2022, Vanquis call handler agreed that
interest shouldnt have been charged on either of the payment plans.
She went on to refund interest of £232.82  this being interest charged for the months of
October 2021, November 2021, April 2022, and May 2022. This was the right thing to do,
and Vanquis put things right at that stage.
Access to the account while on the payment plans:
Mr K said he couldnt log on to his account during the payment plans and so couldnt monitor
his account. He was told on a call on 20 June 2022 that this was because he was on a
payment plan  this was an error by Vanquis. In fact, the reason was that Mr K entered his
password incorrectly. I looked at Vanquis records and they confirm he entered the wrong
password three times on 17 June 2022, and was then locked out. So - it does appear that
was the reason. I know Mr K will disagree, but the records Ive seen are conclusive here.
Duplicated payments to the account:
Mr K says this was an error by Vanquis. I listened to the call on 12 April 2022 and the call
handler explained she would amend the existing CPA of £34 (which had been running on the
first payment plan) so it would continue for the second payment plan. Mr K said he thought
he had a standing order set up  but she said he hadnt, and the CPA would take care of the
payments. I can then see that Mr K made additional payments by debit card on 15 May 2022
and 15 June 2022  these werent needed and were returned to his bank account by
Vanquis. So here, I dont consider that Vanquis acted unreasonably  and the duplicated
payments were because of Mr Ks actions.
Several calls with Vanquis dropped out:
Vanquis cant tell us why this happened. Theyve shown us the call records which show calls
were ended both by Vanquis and Mr K on different occasions  Vanquis say there may have
been a connection problem. I think its reasonable to assume that was the case. This was 
unfortunate and frustrating for Mr K, but I cant hold Vanquis responsible here.
Vanquis didnt deal with the charging of interest or the duplicate payments in their final
response:
I agree that Vanquis didnt address the charging of interest in their final response  but the
response did deal with the duplicated monthly payments. I listened to the call on 20 June
2022  and on it, Mr K clearly set out his complaint points, including the charging of interest
on his account. In fact, that was his main complaint point. Vanquis did refund £232.82 as a
result of that call, and a previous call that day. So  they dealt with the points Mr K raised on
the phone.
But  Mr Ks complaint  as put to Vanquis on the call  was that it shouldnt have been
necessary for him to call them many times to sort this out. I can see he called Vanquis eight
times on 17June 2022 and twice on 20 June 2022. I can appreciate that this was time
consuming and stressful for Mr K, as he has said. And - it was unfortunate that Vanquis
didnt deal with this point in their final response.Therefore, I think it is reasonable to ask Vanquis to pay an amount of additional
compensation for this omission in their final response, and for the time taken by Mr K to
contact Vanquis several times about the charging of interest. I propose an additional amount
of £100 is paid.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Vanquis accepted the provisional decision. Mr K did - except for one point. He said:
He hadnt entered his password incorrectly. He was certain about that. 
He tried to log on on 10 April 2023  and again, he was told his password was wrong. 
But he said it couldnt be.
To clarify what had happened, we put this to Vanquis. They told us that it was the case that 
Mr Ks password had expired, and he needed to reset it. It was Vanquis process that if a log 
on hadnt been done within the last 30 days, a password reset would be needed. They also 
told us that its likely that happened in June 2022  when Mr K complained. 
This was contrary to what theyd told us before. Vanquis internal records show wrong 
password  which is what Id relied on before when I wrote the provisional decision. But in 
fact, this may be due to an expired password - requiring a reset. Vanquis told us that if 
customers have problems login in, they are prompted to get in touch.
I therefore need to consider whether to award Mr K more compensation for this. But Vanquis 
also sent to us a recording of a call on 2 August 2022. I listened to it. The call handler 
explained that the password expires after a period and needs to be reset. She helped Mr K 
log on successfully.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The provisional decision has been accepted by Vanquis and Mr K, other than the issue of 
the resetting of Mr Ks password. Ive considered whether that warrants an increased 
amount of compensation. 
While I understand the resetting of the password after non-use for 30 days can be frustrating 
- it is part of Vanquis security processes. And we cant ask them to change that  it is not 
within our mandate. And because I heard evidence (on the call on 2 August 2022) that Mr K 
was advised that passwords expire after a period  he was advised about it. So - Im not 
persuaded to award a higher amount of compensation.
Therefore, my final decision is unchanged from the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited must:
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman