DRN-3255191
The complaint
Mr K Is unhappy with his motor insurer, Skyfire Insurance Company Limited, because when 
he had an accident which wasnt his fault, his no claims bonus reduced.
What happened
Mr K found damage to his car, he claimed against his policy and Skyfire settled the claim. 
But then his policy premium increased because Skyfire had reduced the years Mr K was 
recorded as not having had a claim (from six to three). Mr K found cover at a lower price 
elsewhere but complained to Skyfire as he believed his no claims bonus shouldnt have 
been affected by this incident. Skyfire felt it had acted in line with the policy.
When Mr K complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
Skyfire had done anything wrong. Mr K asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the loss Mr K experienced was not his fault. And I can understand why its 
frustrating for him to see his no claims bonus reduced. But it is a no claims bonus not a no 
blame bonus, so its awarded when no claims have been made and reduced when they 
have. And, regardless of how the damage was caused, or by whom, Mr K did make a claim.
When Mr K arranged his policy, he had the option of paying to protect his no claims bonus. 
That would have meant that in the event of a claim, the bonus wouldnt have been affected. 
But Mr K didnt choose to do that.
Mr Ks policy explains that where claims are made, and the no claims bonus isnt protected, 
that the bonus will be affected by the claim. And I note that when Mr K called Skyfire to 
report the incident  Skyfires advisor explained to Mr K that if he went ahead with a claim, 
the no claims bonus would be affected. Mr K then chose to proceed with the claim anyway.
In the circumstances here I think Skyfire gave Mr K an option of whether or not to proceed 
with the claim  in full knowledge of what that would mean for his cover. And when he did it 
amended the bonus as the policy allowed it to do. So I dont think it did anything wrong. As 
such Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman