DRN-3578457
The complaint
Mr T complains that BUPA Insurance Limited hasnt refunded his premiums for his private 
health insurance policy, that BUPAs rebate of the policy premium is unfair and that it gave 
him conflicting information about cover under the policy.
What happened
Mr T has a private medical insurance policy which hes renewed for several years, insured 
by BUPA. He renews the policy in November each year.
In March/April 2020 private medical facilities were requisitioned to the NHS to provide 
support due to the demands of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr T complains that:
Due to the requisition he wasnt able to get the private medical services he paid the 
policy for. In particular he was supposed to have a lung function test for his asthma in 
March 2020, but that didnt happen. In September 2020 he had a face to face 
appointment with a respiratory consultant as his asthma had flared up. But the 
consultant wasnt able to carry out the lung function test and didnt know where a test 
was available. He contacted various BUPA approved hospitals to get a test but the 
approved hospital list BUPA gave must have been out of date as the hospitals didnt 
provide the test. He asked BUPA customer services to help but the earliest the test 
was available privately was in December 2021. 
BUPA told him it wasnt responsible if none of its approved hospitals could carry out 
the test. But hed been paying a substantial premium so he could be seen by  a 
private specialist if NHS treatment wasnt available. If hed had a life threatening 
condition BUPA may not have been able to provide the treatment even though hed 
been paying for the policy for many years.
BUPA wouldnt extend his premium payment holiday and gave him conflicting 
information about cover. As hes self-employed he had financial hardship due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic so BUPA offered him a three month payment holiday from May 
to July 2020. Hed understood he was still covered by the policy for those three 
months. In August 2020 he asked BUPA for another three month payment holiday. 
He says BUPA then told him he hadnt been covered for the payment holiday and he 
wouldnt have policy cover if he wanted to extend. He continued to make the 
payment as he didnt want to risk not being covered. 
The £154.78. rebate  BUPA offered him in June 2021 isnt a fair amount. Its less 
than one months premium but he hadnt been able to use the services under the 
policy since March 2020.
Mr T wants BUPA to refund the premium payment hes paid since March 2020 which he 
calculates to be premiums for 17 months, totalling about £3,614.91. He also wants BUPA to 
pay him compensation for his inconvenience in trying to find a hospital for the test he needed  
and having to go through the complaint process. 
BUPA said:
It acknowledged some private hospital services were disrupted due to requestioning. 
But time critical treatments (such as for cancer) continued and while other treatments 
were delayed the treatment happened at a later date and were covered by the policy. 
It had also provided customers with health services from home, support to access 
care and helped those experiencing financial hardship. Mr T had four claims covered 
by the policy in 2020.
It wasnt responsible to find a facility available to carry out a test and the policy is 
clear it cant guarantee the availability of procedures or treatments at any facility. The 
hospital facilities arent able to provide a comprehensive list of every test they carry 
out.
It had offered Mr T three months policy cover free which hed accepted. When the 
three months ended Mr T phoned to ask for an extension. In a call on 5 August 2020 
it told him he could have a premium pause which was different to the previous three 
months free cover offer. The premium pause meant Mr T wouldnt pay a premium but 
he wouldnt be able to claim during that time. Mr T said that wasnt suitable for his 
needs and didnt accept the three months premiums pause. It had sent Mr T a letter 
dated 17 August 2020 which explained the offer. 
The rebate wasnt a refund of premium. It was passing back the exceptional financial 
gain arising from the pandemic in the form of a rebate,. The independent reviewer it 
appointed to look into BUPAs allocation of rebate said its approach was reasonable 
so the rebate it paid to Mr T was fair. 
Our investigator said BUPA had acted reasonably and didnt need to take any action.
Mr T disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he added:
Our investigator had referred to a female BUPA representative giving him information 
about the payment holiday but hed spoken to a male representative.
He claimed on the policy in 2020 before March 2020 and in September 2020. His 
next claim was in 2021.
He thought BUPA did, or used to, own some hospitals and anyway he shouldnt have 
to wait so long to get treatment through his policy. He queried why he paid for his 
policy if BUPA couldnt guarantee availability of treatment he needed or may need in 
the future, even for a very serious medical condition. He feels very let down by the 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I  think BUPA treated Mr T fairly in all the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Medical services and policy refund
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy provide that his cover is for one year (but can 
generally be renewed) and premiums must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that 
year. Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over 
the duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to 
cover the risk during that time even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. 
BUPA provided cover under Mr Ts policy from 21 November 2019 to 20 November 2020 
and 21 November 2020 to 20 November 2021 and thereafter. BUPA is entitled to retain the 
premium it charged to cover the risk of him making a claim during that time. Its clear Mr T feels strongly that he didnt benefit from his policy because his lung function 
test had to be delayed and I sympathise with his position. But I cant reasonably say the 
policy didnt met Mr Ts medical needs. Hed successfully claimed for medical costs during 
his 2019/20 policy period including in September 2020 during the pandemic. Mr T says he 
waited for BUPA services to resume in November 2021 in relation to another medical 
condition. I dont have the date of the treatment for that condition to know whether it fell 
within the 2020/21 or 2021/2022 policy year. So it may be that Mr T also claimed in the 
2020/21 policy year. Even if not, BUPA would still be entitled to retain the premium it 
charged to cover the risk of Mr T making a claim during the 2020/21 policy year even if he 
didnt make a claim.
Mr T was frustrated and concerned that he couldnt have his lung function test as planned 
even when he was able to see a consultant face to face. But theres no term in Mr Ts 
contract with BUPA that requires BUPA to refund any premium in part if it becomes difficult 
to access private treatment. And I wouldnt expect an insurer to refund part of a premium if 
medical services and treatment were unavailable due to circumstances outside its control, 
and the requisitioning of private hospitals for use by the NHS was outside of BUPAs control. 
BUPA doesnt own or operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and 
even for those facilities the requisitioning of insurer approved private facilities for use by the 
NHS was still outside of BUPAs control.
Mr T and the consultant he saw in September 2020 couldnt find a facility that could give him 
a lung function test. BUPA also tried to help Mr T find a facility for the test, which was 
reasonable. Mr T wasnt able to have the test until December 2021, but BUPA wasnt 
responsible for the service not being available until that date. And the policy is clear that  
BUPA cannot guarantee the availability of any facility, practitioner or treatment.
So even though Mr T had to wait for his lung function test through his private medical policy 
longer than he would usually have to wait, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that 
means BUPA has to refund the policy premium.
Mr T was also frustrated at phoning hospitals on BUPAs approved list to be told they 
couldnt or didnt do the test. He wants compensation for his inconvenience in trying to find a 
hospital for the test he needed. BUPA says the hospital facilities cant provide a 
comprehensive list of every test they carry out so the information wasnt available to pass on 
to Mr T. So I dont think its that BUPA provided an out of date list to Mr T and, as Ive said, it 
acted reasonably in helping him find a facility that could do the test. Theres no basis for me 
to say BUPA must pay Mr T compensation for his inconvenience due to this issue. 
Mr T has queried why he has the policy if BUPA cant guarantee treatment and is concerned 
that if he had a serious medical condition it couldnt guarantee treatment for that. BUPA says 
treatments for time-critical cancer and heartcare did continue during the pandemic. And I can 
only make my decision on Mr Ts actual circumstances, not what might have happened. Its 
a matter for him to decide whether he wants to continue the policy in the future, I cant 
advise him on that matter.
Payment holiday and conflicting advice
The policy doesnt provide for payment holidays but BUPA decided to offer a payment 
holiday for some eligible policyholders who were in financial hardship. BUPA offered, and 
Mr T took, a three months payment holiday from May to July 2020. During that period he still  
had cover under the policy. 
Mr T believes BUPA gave him conflicting information about his cover when he phoned to ask 
for an extension of the payment holiday. In the call of 5 August 2020 BUPA tells Mr T he was 
still able to access cover during the May to July 2020 payment holiday but that three months 
is the maximum payment holiday with cover BUPA will offer. It detailed that Mr T had two 
other options, a premium pause or reducing his cover. It explained that a premium pause would mean Mr T would stop paying premiums but he wouldnt have any cover under the 
policy for that time. Mr T said neither option was are suitable as he wanted full cover under 
the policy and BUPA told him that meant there were no other options available.
BUPAs representative in that call is female and Mr T says a call must be missing as he also 
spoke to a male representative. There is a note on BUPAs file of a call between Mr T and a 
male BUPA representative on 3 August 2020. The note of the call says Mr T was told the 
three months free cover was the longest level of free cover, which is an accurate description 
of  BUPAs position. Ive not asked for a copy of the earlier call as even if in that call BUPA 
had wrongly told Mr T he wasnt covered for the May to July 2020 payment holiday it told him 
the correct position in the 5 August call. Mr T made his decision to continue the payment 
having been told the correct information about cover.
Mr T was disappointed BUPA wouldnt extend the payment holiday beyond three months but 
BUPA is entitled to decide in what circumstances its prepared to use its discretion to offer a 
payment holiday. Ive seen no evidence that Mr T was treated any differently to any other 
policyholder who was in the same situation as he was.
Rebate
Before  Mr T renewed his policy in November 2020 BUPA wrote to him to say it was 
considering a rebate to pass back any exceptional financial benefit arising as a result of the  
Covid-19 situation and would appoint a third party review to make sure its approach was fair 
and reasonable for all its customers. Mr T says the rebate BUPA sent him wasnt a fair 
amount as wasnt even one month of premium.
The rebate wasnt a refund of premiums due to a lack of available services during Covid-19. 
It was a refund of the exceptional profit BUPA made from the pandemic (due to there being a 
reduction in claims as access to private medical treatment was reduced).
Mr T thinks the rebate should be more, he says treatments werent available for months. But 
BUPA says that delayed non-urgent treatments still needed to be funded by BUPA at a later 
date, once private facilities were no longer needed by the NHS to treat patients. And it was 
covering time critical treatments which werent delayed and putting in place other benefits to 
support its customers. I accept what BUPA says about that. 
BUPA commissioned a third party to review whether the way it shared out the rebate was 
fair and reasonable across eligible health insurance customers. The third party is 
independent of BUPA and it was satisfied with BUPAs approach. The third party says on 
BUPAs website:
We have independently reviewed BUPAs proposed approach to allocating its rebate 
fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers. We recognise that finding 
the right balance between fairness, simplicity and BUPAs desire to act promptly in 
distributing the rebate fund is challenging, and that no single approach will fully 
satisfy all stakeholders. We are satisfied that BUPAs proposed approach to 
allocating its rebate fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers is 
reasonable and strikes an equitable balance between these objectives.
Based on the evidence I think BUPA acted reasonably in the rebate payment it made to 
Mr T.
Mr Ts wants BUPA to pay compensation for his inconvenience in going through the 
complaint process. I generally dont award compensation just because a consumer has had 
to complain, and theres no basis for me to so in Mr Ts circumstances. For the reasons Ive 
given above Im satisfied BUPA did treat Mr T fairly.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman