DRN-2289759
The complaint
Miss S complains that she was unable to use her Barclays Bank UK PLC mobile banking 
applications.
What happened
Miss S says she was unable to use two banking applications over a weekend in August 
2020. She said she went to a branch to sort matters out and says she was told to contact 
Barclays by telephone. Miss S says she spent some time on calls to Barclays which were 
not dealt with appropriately and says it compensation offer doesnt go far enough.
Barclays has apologised for what took place and paid £50 compensation. It says the impact 
of the unavailability of the applications would have been minimal and Miss S could have 
used other applications or used other ways of making payments.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Barclays had paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation. The investigator thought Barclays records showed 
Miss S was able to use a mobile banking application that weekend and asked Barclays for 
£40 compensation, but it had paid £50. The investigator also thought Miss S could have 
used other ways of making payments and thought Barclays had dealt appropriately with Miss 
S when she called.
Miss S doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Barclays has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it to increase its compensation offer.
I have no doubt Miss S was caused inconvenience in August 2020 when she was unable to 
use banking applications and that she spent some time telling Barclays about the problem. 
But Im satisfied Barclays has apologised and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable 
amount of £50 compensation which I can see is more than Miss S asked for. I dont think 
Miss S was caused a significant level of inconvenience or suffered any financial loss. I also 
think, having looked at Barclays records, that she was able to access other mobile banking 
applications and could have made payments for example using her account card. I think the 
application was unavailable for a relatively short time period. And I make clear that although 
complaint handling is not something we normally consider, I dont think Miss S was dealt 
with inappropriately when she called Barclays.
So, it follows that I cant fairly ask Barclays to increase the compensation offer. I appreciate 
that Miss S will be disappointed with my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman