DRN-3652740
The complaint
Mr L has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) was unable to repair a 
boiler under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr L contacted British Gas to repair a boiler at a rental property he owned. Over a series of 
visits, engineers inspected the boiler and sometimes fitted new parts. British Gas then told 
Mr L that it wasnt possible to repair the boiler and said it should be replaced. 
Mr L replaced the boiler but complained to British Gas and said he shouldnt have needed to 
replace the boiler as British Gas should have been able to repair it. When British Gas replied 
to the complaint, it said it had investigated the issues with the boiler. The boiler was 18 years 
old and wasnt fitted to the manufacturers instructions, as the flow and return pipes were the 
wrong size, which could cause the boiler to lock out or overheat. A manager had already 
refunded the cost of some previous upgrade work that hadnt fixed the issue. Mr Ls boiler 
was also on the restricted service list and he had been advised to replace the boiler since 
2013.
When Mr L complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said British Gas 
had investigated the fault and replaced parts where it found issues. British Gas had also 
advised that, due to the age of the boiler, it might not be possible to replace some parts or 
repair it. He said British Gas had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
As Mr L didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr L reported issues with a boiler. Looking at British Gass engineer records, these showed 
it visited on multiple occasions to deal with the boiler. On some of those visits, issues were 
found and British Gas replaced parts to fix them. However, on other visits, the engineers 
found that the boiler was working and couldnt find any issues with it. So, I think British Gas 
took steps to identify issues and repair the boiler, when required.
In 2020, Mr Ls renewal documents said:
 - Your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular model of boiler
a while ago. Theyre still making the most important parts for your boiler,
some other parts are becoming difficult to source
-This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but well
do our best to keep it running for as long as possible
The engineer records also showed that since 2013, during visits, engineers had been 
advising that the boiler be replaced. Mr L said he wasnt aware of this. Given a tenant lived 
at the property, I think this advice might have been provided to the tenant. Nonetheless, Im 
satisfied that British Gas took steps, including in the renewal documents sent to Mr L, to 
advise that it might not be possible to repair the boiler and that it might need to be replaced.
The policy also said:
If weve agreed to cover a boiler or appliance but warned you that it might be difficult
to find replacement parts, well do what we can, within reason, to repair it.
Mr L has said he asked British Gas to replace each part in the boiler until it found the 
underlying issue. British Gas declined to do this, which I think was reasonable. Although the 
policy said British Gas would repair the boiler, I dont think this meant it needed to replace 
working parts in order to see what effect, if any, this had on the overall functioning of the 
boiler.
British Gas also reviewed the work it had carried out. It identified that it had said upgrade 
work should be carried out, which it thought would fix the issue. However, when it found this 
hadnt made any difference, it refunded the cost of that work. I think that was reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr L has also said he had the same boiler fitted in another property and with an identical set-
up and that boiler was still functioning. Although that might be the case, that doesnt 
persuade me that British Gas didnt properly assess the issues with the boiler or provide 
reasonable advice, which in this case was that the boiler needed to be replaced.
After investigating the issues, British Gas told Mr L the boiler hadnt been fitted in line with 
the manufacturers instructions. It said the flow and return pipes were the wrong size, which 
could be causing the problem. Mr L said that when the new boiler was fitted, which was 
through British Gas, this included a quote for replacing those pipes. However, while the 
boiler was being fitted, British Gas decided the existing pipes were fine for the new boiler 
and so didnt replace them. Mr L said this showed that British Gas conclusion about the 
issue with his boiler was wrong. 
British Gas provided this service with the details of the quote for the new boiler and for the 
pipework that then wasnt replaced when it was fitted. This showed that it was the gas pipe 
that was quoted for and then not replaced. This is different to the flow and return pipes, 
which is what British Gas said was the issue with the original boiler. So, I dont think this 
showed that British Gas came to the wrong conclusion about the original boiler.
From what Ive seen British Gas seemed to carry out a thorough assessment of the boiler 
over several visits. I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that the boiler needed to be 
replaced based on the reported issues, the age of the boiler, the attempts it had made to 
repair it and the manufacturers instructions. So, thinking about all of the above, I dont 
uphold this complaint or require British Gas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman