DRN-3832303
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Standard Life (SL) has dealt with a pension sharing 
order (PSO) made against his pension in favour of his ex-spouse. He has said SL has been 
biased towards his ex-spouse and has acted outside of the relevant legislation.
What happened
A PSO was granted (in Scotland) on 21 February 2022 as a result of Mr P and his ex-
spouses official divorce agreement. Under Scottish law there is a time limit of two months 
from the activation date of by which the PSO must be settled, unless an extension is granted 
by the courts.
On 7 March 2022 an email was sent to SL from Mr Ps ex-spouse solicitors enclosing a copy 
of the Extract Decree of Divorce. They also enclosed a copy of the signed Minute of 
Agreement.
On 12 March 2022 SL replied explaining that the Minute Agreement doesnt appear to have 
been registered. It explained before it could give effect to the PSO, it must have sight of the 
Minute Agreement which has been registered in the Books of Council and Session. SL 
asked for this to be sent to it and explained the paperwork would then be sent to the relevant 
team on receipt of the outstanding document.
On 14 March 2022 the solicitors responded and attached a copy of the Extracts Registered 
Pension Sharing Agreement.
On 18 March 2022 SL replied and explained it had what was required to give effect to the 
PSO and that the paperwork had been passed to the relevant team.
On 23 March 2022 SL wrote again to the ex-spouse solicitors to chase some missing 
information. SL also included details about the expiry date and stated that if information 
wasnt received by this date the solicitors would be required to obtain an extension from the 
Court in order to proceed.
Following this there was contact between Mr P and his ex-spouse.
On 5 May 2022 Mr P contacted SL to get an update on what was happening. During this call 
Mr P was told that a PSO was valid for an indefinite amount of time and was told his 
solicitors had been incorrect in telling him it stops if not completed within two months.
There was then further contact between SL and Mr Ps ex-spouses solicitors in which SL 
explained the two-month time period and that it started on 21 February 2022. SL explained it 
was unable to compete the terms of the PSO because of the time limits and as part of that 
communication it was confirmed the two months could be extended by the courts upon 
application.
SL explained that it wouldnt be able to proceed with the implementation unless an extension 
was granted.
SL also explained it required clarification regarding the solicitors intentions and provided 
them with a deadline to respond by. Within this deadline SL received confirmation that an 
extension to the implementation of the PSO had been applied for.
During this time SL informed Mr P of the situation.
Due to the appeal being considered by the Court SL couldnt take any further action during 
this period until a decision had been made. This happened in August 2022 when the court 
granted an extension of four months.
On 9 August 2022 Mr P confirmed with SL that he had appealed against the extension. The 
appeal hearing was to start on 2 December 2022 and SL confirmed it couldnt implement the 
order until the appeal had been heard.
Mr P believes that in contacting his ex-spouses solicitors SL has been biased towards his 
ex-spouse as it wasnt its responsibility to do this. He feels it deliberately withheld his 
pension from him and continued to provide legal advice to his ex-spouse solicitors regarding 
the right to apply for an extension.
As the extension was subsequently granted Mr P believes this was due to SLs continued 
delays and he feels as a result he has lost out on around £70,000 of his pension.
When SL investigated the complaint, it was satisfied it had acted appropriately and correctly 
in dealing with the PSO. It did however acknowledge that it had given Mr P wrong 
information in the call on 5 May 2022 when it had told Mr P that a PSO could be valid 
indefinitely. It explained this only applied to the law in England and Wales not to Scotland. 
So it offered him £150 in recognition of the error.
Mr P was not satisfied with the response and so brought the complaint to this Service where 
it was assessed by one of our investigators. She was of the view it couldnt be upheld. She 
felt that while SL had informed his ex-spouses solicitors of the possibility of an extension 
she was satisfied this was part of SLs duty of care to both parties. She was also satisfied 
that SL hadnt acted outside of the law as legislation provided and extension if required. She 
also thought the offer of £150 was suitable to recognise the impact of the error SL had made 
in giving Mr P the wrong information.
Mr P didnt agree with the assessment. He remained of the view that the relevant legislation 
was clear on what pension providers had to do in relation to a PSO and that if it wasnt 
implemented within the allotted two-month period it would be deemed to have failed to exist. 
He feels that SL ignored this part of the regulation and persistently pursued his ex-spouses 
solicitors and provided more time to allow them to apply for an extension. He also felt the 
offer SL made was insulting and didnt reflect the serious nature of the situation.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.I can appreciate Mr Ps frustration and understand that this is an emotive issue. But I must 
look at this complaint objectively and make my decision based on the evidence in front of 
me.
My consideration is whether SL has acted incorrectly and outside legislation in dealing with 
the PSO.
The relevant legislation in this case is the Welfare Reform and Pensions Act (WRAP) 1999 
and the relevant section is 28, subsection 7 and 10.
Subsection 7 states:
For the purposes of this section, an order or provision falling within subsection(1) (e), (f) or 
(g) shall be deemed to have never taken effect if the person responsible for the arrangement 
to which the order or provision related does not receive before the end of the period of 2 
months beginning with the relevant date-
(a) Copies of the relevant F13  documents, and
(b) Such information relating to the transferor and transferee as the Secretary of State 
may prescribed by regulations under section 34 (1) (b) (ii).
Subsection 10 goes on to state:
The Court of Session or the Sheriff may, on the application of any person having an 
interest, make an order- 
(a) Extending the period of 2 months referred to in subsection (7) [above], and
(b) If that period has already expired providing that, If the person responsible for the 
arrangement receives the documents and information concerned before the end of 
the period specified in the order, subsection (7) is to be treated as never having 
applied.
So it can clearly be seen that an extension can be applied for under the law. The legislation 
is, however, silent on how one of the parties becomes aware of that possibility. Therefore in 
SL contacting the solicitors to inform them about the possibility of an extension I dont think 
SL can be found to have been acting outside of the law.
In considering whether this was reasonable action for SL to take, my view is that I think it 
was. SL had to inform the solicitors that it wasnt going to be able to meet PSOs 
requirement within the required timescale and that it needed further information. It also 
seems that the solicitors misunderstood the PSO so again I dont think it was unreasonable 
for SL to give the solicitors the correct information. This was required for SL to fulfil its 
requirements in relation to the PSO and also formed part of its general duty of care.
Its also worth noting that Mr Ps ex-spouse was the party who would be benefiting from the 
PSO so if there was a chance she would be missing out then its only right for her to have 
been made aware of this. And it wouldnt have been reasonable for SL to not disclose this 
information to her. If this is considered from the reverse perspective, had SL not informed 
her then it could be argued that it was acting more in favour of Mr P. But in this situation it 
appears that SL informed both parties of the expiration of the PSO and that unless an 
extension was granted by a court the PSO would be implemented so I think it acted fairly 
and in line with the way the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires.
I know Mr P feels SL persistently contacted his ex-spouses solicitors but the information 
I have seen indicates this was because the solicitors hadnt made it clear whether an 
extension was being applied for, so SL had to chase for this information. It also needed to know this information in order for it to not deprive Mr P access to his pensions plan 
unreasonably or allowed him access to an incorrect amount.
Its also worth noting that the PSO is a court order served against SL so it must ensure that 
neither party is disadvantaged or favoured over another. So, if this meant SL had to liaise 
with a solicitor unaware of the FCA mandated requirements to transfer in to a pension then 
that was reasonably something SL would and should do.
So overall I dont think that SL has acted incorrectly or in a biased manner in its handling of 
the PSO. I think it was acting in the right way for both parties. I also think it has interpreted 
the legislation correctly  it clearly states that the PSO would not be valid after the expiry of 
the two-month time limit and it also stated that an extension can be applied for and may be 
granted by the Court.
I do agree however that Sl gave Mr P the wrong information when he contacted it in May 
2022. But I think the offer SL made of £150 in recognition of this mistake is sufficient to 
recognise the impact of the error. I therefore dont think it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman