DRN-3277994
The complaint
Mr G complains that Experian Limited wont remove from his credit record information about 
a county court judgment which he says is not his.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr G says that he noticed on his credit report a county court judgment in 
the name of Mrs G. The first name and surname were similar to his own but spelt differently. 
And, whilst the date of birth recorded the same day and month as his own, the year replaced 
a 6 with an 8. Mr G complained to Experian, asking for the record to be removed.
Experian would not remove the record. It said that the discrepancies were likely to be the 
result of administrative errors. It had not identified anyone else whose details matched those 
included in the judgment as closely as Mr Gs. It noted too that the address it had been 
provided with was the same as Mr Gs address.
Mr G referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She was not persuaded however that it was fair of Experian to have registered 
the county court judgment against Mr Gs name  given the differences in the judgment 
details when compared to Mr Gs own details.
Experian did not accept the investigators recommendation that it remove the judgment from 
Mr Gs record. It asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision. I considered the information that Experian had 
received from R, which operates the Register of Judgments, Orders and Fines for England 
and Wales. That information recorded the amount and date of the judgment. The address 
matched that of Mr G, but other information differed in some respects. Specifically:
The debtors title was recorded as Mrs. 
Their first and surnames were spelt slightly differently from the spelling used by Mr G. 
The year of birth ended in 8 instead of 6, although the month and year were the 
same. 
I commented that it would be easy to dismiss one of these differences as an administrative 
error, but that it was much harder to dismiss all of them in the same way. There were 
therefore two possibilities, namely:
There had indeed been a series of administrative errors in recording Mr Gs details.
The judgment concerned someone other than Mr G, but someone who shared his 
birthday (but was two years younger), who had very similar first and surnames and who 
shared his address. 
I thought that the more likely explanation was that there had indeed been a series of 
administrative errors. Whilst that would certainly have been unusual, the alternative 
explanation  that the judgment had been made against someone with similar details to Mr 
G and who lived at his address  was not supported by any evidence.
Mr G did not accept my provisional decision. He did not accept that there were four 
administrative errors and commented that anyone with a similar name could run up a debt 
and the resulting judgment would be linked to him. Because the details did not match, he 
could not find out any more details about the debt from the court. It seemed that the 
judgment details were a close fit and that was enough.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Gs point here. Because he cant get any information from the court (other than 
what Ive summarised above), he cannot deal with the judgment  either by applying to have 
it set aside or by paying the debt. That is not however the fault of Experian, which has no 
more information than Mr G does about the judgment.
I am satisfied however that Experian has registered the judgment against Mr Gs name not 
because the details are a close fit, but because it is satisfied that it is more likely than not 
that the judgment relates to him, rather than to anyone else. As Mr G has said, there is 
nobody else at his address to whom the judgment could relate. I remain of the view that the 
incorrect details are likely to be the result of administrative errors. I am not persuaded that 
the judgment in fact relates to someone else.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Experian Limited to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman