DRN-3098312
The complaint
Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
for two secured loans.
What happened
Mr L took out a PPI policy with a secured loan in 2003. A few months later, he took out a 
second secured loan with its own PPI policy. Mr L paid for the policies with regular monthly 
premiums, which did not attract interest. The policies covered him in case he was off work 
sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr L and Bank of Scotland a provisional decision on 10 September 2021, to explain 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think these policies were mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Both of the loan agreements involved had a section for PPI. It offered two options  one to 
take PPI, and one to turn it down. In each sale, its recorded that the option to buy PPI was 
chosen, whereas the option to turn it down was left blank. And in each sale, Mr L signed the 
agreement to confirm his choices. The cost of each policy was set out separately to the cost 
of the lending itself  the PPI was not a hidden cost, nor was it part and parcel of either loan. 
And Ive not seen anything which said it was compulsory. Further, Ive not seen any wider 
problems with Bank of Scotlands sales process from around the time, nor any evidence 
which shows that they misled or unfairly pressure Mr L into buying PPI here. So I think its 
most likely that Bank of Scotland made Mr L aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it on each occasion.
Bank of Scotland recommended the policies to Mr L, so they had to check they were right for 
him. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think they were. For 
example, it looks like Mr L was eligible for each policy and wasnt affected by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay or redundancy 
provisions and covered him for far longer. It also meant he could effectively protect his 
savings and use them for other things, instead of potentially needing to sacrifice one asset to 
save another. I understand that Mr L had other work benefits too, like death in service and 
private healthcare, but those were for different things to the PPI and Im afraid they werent 
relevant here. I also understand Mr Ls parents may have been happy to help, but there was 
always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And these secured loans were 
Mr Ls responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Bank of 
Scotland had recommended he rely on other individuals to make the payments.
Mr L could potentially have been granted an ill health retirement once his sick pay ran out. 
Its not fully clear how this would work from the documents provided so far. But it looks like 
this was something one could be considered for, as opposed to something guaranteed. And 
normally, one could only retire this way if one was prevented from working permanently due 
to an illness or injury, which is quite rare. Whereas if, for example, Mr L were too sick to work 
for a year  but not permanently  then his sick pay wouldve run out just half way in, but 
hed still have been unable to take the early retirement. In that sort of situation, he wouldve 
been at serious risk of losing his home without PPI. Further, it looks like his pension benefit 
wouldve been significantly lower than his salary. So it seems that the PPI couldve been 
really quite useful for filling the gaps in Mr Ls cover. Of course, if Mr L can provide further 
documents in response to this provisional decision which set out the ill health retirement 
benefit in more detail, then Ill be happy to reconsider this point.
The PPI policies both had a relatively modest cost and were competitively priced given how 
much they could pay out in a claim. And they were covering significant, long-term loans 
which were secured against Mr Ls property. Ultimately, if Mr L fell behind on those loans he 
couldve lost his home. So it seems reasonable that he took out these policies, to protect his 
home and provide some peace of mind.
For each loan, the cost of the PPI policy was set out clearly. So I think Mr L wouldve 
understood how much he would need to pay for each policy if he chose it.
It is possible that Bank of Scotland didnt adequately point out all the main things each policy 
wouldnt cover. But as I said above, Mr L doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
those things. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
8 October 2021. But neither Mr L nor Bank of Scotland sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think these two particular 
policies were mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman