DRN-2579683
The complaint
Mr E says Close Brothers Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out in connection with a hire
purchase agreement Mr E arranged in 2011. Mr E took out the cover over the phone.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Close Brothers disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 5 January 2021. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, but for reasons that were different to the adjudicators. Ive 
summarised my provisional findings below:
Mr E had an existing medical condition when he bought the policy, so he wouldnt 
have been covered if hed had to take time off in connection with that condition, 
unless hed been symptom free for two years before the claim. This was why the 
adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld.
Close Brothers pointed out that the medical condition Mr E had mentioned in his 
complaint, and which the adjudicator had referred to, wasnt mentioned by Mr E 
during the phone call he had with Close Brothers where he bought the policy. Mr E 
had, in fact, mentioned a different medical condition during that call.
The adjudicator reviewed the complaint again but she still recommended it should be 
upheld. She wasnt persuaded Mr E wouldve been covered for his pre-existing 
conditions, and she didnt think the policys exclusions had been made clear enough 
to him by Close Brothers.
I considered very carefully what Mr E had told us about his medical conditions, and 
what happened when the policy was sold.
Having listened to the phone call between Mr E and Close Brothers where the policy 
was sold, it seemed Mr E didnt mention the medical condition that hed since 
referred to in his complaint. So I accepted that Close Brothers couldnt have realised 
Mr E wouldnt have been covered by the policy if hed had to take time off work in 
connection with that condition (unless hed been symptom free for two years before 
the claim).
But during the call Mr E told Close Brothers about a different medical condition that 
he suffered from. This was an advised sale, so Close Brothers had to make sure
that the policy was suitable for Mr E. The policy terms meant Mr E wouldnt have 
been covered if hed had to take time off in connection with his condition, unless hed 
been symptom free for two years before the claim.
Keeping in mind the nature of the condition Mr E suffers from, and the regular 
medical input he had, I thought Close Brothers shouldve realised it was unlikely he 
wouldve been able to make a successful claim on the policy if hed had to take time 
off work in connection with his condition.
This meant Close Brothers recommendation to take the policy was unsuitable for
Mr E, even though the business pointed out the exclusion to him.
I didnt think Mr E would have bought the policy if Close Brothers had made it clear it 
wasnt suitable. So, I thought Mr E had lost out because of what the business did 
wrong.
Mr E didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
Close Brothers responded to say, in summary, that despite the exclusion for his existing 
medical condition, Mr E wouldve been covered for other illnesses and redundancy. It 
considered it was unreasonable to find that the whole policy was unsuitable because of one 
exclusion that was brought to Mr Es attention. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es case.
Ive noted everything Close Brothers has said in response to my provisional findings. But as I 
said in my provisional decision, this was an advised sale so Close Brothers had to make 
sure the policy was suitable for Mr E. 
The exclusion that affected Mr E meant the policy wasnt suitable for him. So even though he 
may have been able to claim in connection with other illnesses and redundancy, the 
exclusion in question meant Close Brothers shouldnt have recommended the policy to him.
Overall, Im not persuaded to depart from the position set out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
Close Brothers should put Mr E in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Close Brothers should:
-Pay Mr E the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
-Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Mr E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Close Brothers can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest. Close
Brothers must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Close Brothers Limited to pay 
compensation to Mr E in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman