DRN-4432788
The complaint
Ms W complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a fee-paying Platinum 
packaged account, which was sold to her in January 2011.
Ms W has given a number of reasons why she says it was mis-sold. These include that she 
was told she would get preferential treatment for an overdraft, and that it would improve her 
credit score. Ms W says that no other discussion was had about the total cost of the account 
or its suitability.
What happened
Lloyds investigated Ms Ws complaint, and although Ms W had only initially complained 
about the sale of the Platinum account, Lloyds included the sale of an earlier packaged 
account in its investigation. 
Lloyds didnt think the earlier packaged account (a Select account sold at some point prior to 
September 2001) had been mis-sold. Lloyds also said that Ms W had complained too late 
about the sale of the Platinum account for our service to be able to consider that aspect of 
her complaint. 
Lloyds explained that another financial business is responsible for looking into Ms Ws 
complaint about experiencing financial difficulties.
After Ms Ws complaint was referred to our service, Lloyds changed its stance and agreed 
that our service could consider Ms Ws complaint about the sale of the Platinum account.
One of our investigators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that either the Select 
account or the Platinum account were mis-sold. 
Ms Ws representative disagreed with the assessment. After reviewing the reasons why Ms 
W disagreed with the assessment, the investigator changed the outcome and concluded 
that, the Platinum account had been mis-sold. 
To put matters right, they thought that Lloyds should put Ms W back in the position she 
wouldve been in had the Platinum account not been sold to her. They thought that this could 
reasonably be achieved by asking Lloyds to refund the difference between the Platinum 
account fees and the Select account fees over the duration that Ms W had the Platinum 
account. They also recommended that 8% annual simple interest, less tax, be paid on the 
fees to be refunded. Lloyds agreed with this outcome.
Ms W responded and said that she wanted the settlement figure and explanation as to how 
the figure was calculated, before she decided to accept the offer. The investigator responded 
and said that it is Lloyds responsibility to calculate the offer, and said that if they accept the 
offer and upon receiving the settlement amount they believe it is incorrect, then we could 
look into that separately.
Ms Ws representative responded and said that Lloyds failed to assess the suitability of 
either account, and that they were unhappy with how Lloyds dealt with the complaint. They 
said that they would consider an offer, but would not be willing to accept anything until they 
were provided with information about how the settlement figure is calculated. 
The investigator provided Ms W with a breakdown of the settlement calculation document 
that Lloyds had provided from its internal records. However, the representative asked for a 
simplified breakdown as they didnt understand the settlement calculation. They also 
questioned why the redress had been paid already, when they had not accepted the offer.
Because Ms Ws representative remained unhappy with the outcome of the complaint, the 
matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
Ms Ws complaint about financial difficulties is being dealt with by another financial business. 
Because of that, I will not be addressing that complaint in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I think the 
outcome reached is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As such I dont think that 
Lloyds needs to do anything more in relation to this complaint. I will explain why that is.
Select account
Looking through the original complaint, it doesnt seem that Ms W had actually complained 
about the sale of the Select account, as her testimony focused on what she was told during 
the sale of the Platinum account in 2011. Nevertheless, from what I understand, Ms W has 
since said that the Select packaged account was also mis-sold on the basis that Lloyds 
failed to check if it was suitable for her.
Due to the lack of evidence from the time, its not clear whether the Select account was sold 
on a non-advised or advised basis. If it was the former, then Lloyds was not required to have 
checked whether the account was suitable for Ms Ws circumstances. Conversely, if it had 
been sold on an advised basis, Lloyds wouldve been required to check it was appropriate 
for Ms Ws circumstances. From the evidence that has been provided, I think it was more 
likely to have been sold on a non-advised basis. But, even if I concluded that it was sold on 
an advised basis, I still dont think the Select account was mis-sold.
From the earliest statements that are available, I can see that the account cost £4 per 
month. And at the time one of the key benefits it provided was a £50 interest free overdraft 
facility, with preferential rates on interest on overdrawn balances above this amount  up to 
the agreed limit. Another key benefit of the account at the time, was that by having the 
Select account, Ms W was able to avoid paying a £5 monthly overdraft usage fee that was 
applicable on the standard fee-free account at the time.
Looking at Ms Ws earliest statements, I can see that her account would regularly go 
overdrawn most months. This meant Ms W paid £1 less in monthly fees and less overdraft 
interest by having the Select account than she wouldve paid on a fee-free account - 
providing it remained within the overdraft limit. As such, even if it was the case that Ms W 
didnt need any of the other benefits it provided, it seems that it wouldve been appropriate 
for Ms W  just for the overdraft benefits alone.
I appreciate that the account benefits changed over time. So I acknowledge that the account 
mayve, at a later date, no longer been such a good fit for Ms Ws circumstances. However, 
there was no requirement for Lloyds to regularly assess whether the account continued to be 
appropriate for Ms Ws needs. Its also the case that the account was provided as a package 
 this meant that Ms W couldnt pick and choose what it came with. So in summary, it 
wouldve been up to Ms W to change her account if the Select account was no longer a good 
fit for her needs (either because of changes to the account benefits or changes to her 
circumstances). Lloyds was however required to provide Ms W with important information about the account 
during the sale. This was to ensure Ms W could make an informed decision about whether to 
upgrade to it or not. Due to how long ago the account was sold, there is barely any 
information now available to indicate what was discussed during the sale. But I think its 
likely that Lloyds wouldve, at the very least, pointed out how much the account cost and 
explained roughly what it came with. Had it not done this, I doubt that Ms W wouldve agreed 
to it in the first place.
Having said that, I accept its entirely possible that Lloyds may not have provided Ms W with 
all of the important information about the account, during the sale. But given that the monthly 
fee was less than the monthly cost to use an overdraft on a fee-free account, and given that 
Ms W was also charged less in overdraft interest than if she had a fee-free account, I doubt 
that Ms W wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had she been given even 
more information about it.
So taking everything into account, I dont think that the Select account was mis-sold. It 
therefore follows that I dont think a refund of the Select account fees is warranted in this 
case.
Refunding the difference
After the investigator took on board Ms Ws representatives comments about the Platinum 
account, I can see that they agreed that it likely had been mis-sold. And Lloyds ultimately 
accepted the investigators findings.
Where a packaged account has been found to be mis-sold, this service would generally 
require that any redress paid out to a consumer would put them back in the position they 
wouldve been in, had the packaged account not been sold.
In this case, had the Platinum account not been sold to Ms W, then as far as I can see, the 
account wouldve remained as a Select account. I recognise that Ms W, with the benefit of 
hindsight, may make arguments to say that she wouldve done something differently or that 
she wouldve downgraded her account to a fee-free account sooner. But Ive not seen 
anything in this complaint that makes me think that wouldve likely happened. So I think that 
a refund between the Platinum account fee and what Ms W wouldve paid had her account 
not been upgraded, seems reasonable in the circumstances. 
In addition to refunding the difference in account fees, because Ms W has not had the 
benefit of that money in that time, I also think its fair that Lloyds pay 8% simple annual 
interest on those fees, less any deductible tax. This is what I wouldve recommended had 
Lloyds not already agreed to do so.
So in summary, I think that the redress that the investigator proposed (and has since been 
paid ) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Redress calculations
I can see that Ms W was reluctant to accept the offer, until she understood how the offer was 
calculated. Whereas the investigators explained that at this stage, this service is only 
proposing what Lloyds should do to put matters right. It would then be Lloyds responsibility 
to go through its records and calculate how much redress should be paid to achieve the 
outcome recommended by the investigator. If it is the case that Lloyds pays the redress, but 
the consumer then believes it has made a mistake when calculating that redress, as the 
investigator explained, it is the usually the case that would need to be looked into as a 
separate complaint.
Nevertheless, in an attempt to resolve this complaint, I can see that the investigators have 
shared Lloyds internal calculation document with Ms W  although Ms W and her 
representative have said they dont understand it and insisted that a simplified breakdown of 
the settlement calculation is provided.
Because of this, I have reviewed the redress calculations that Lloyds has provided, and Im 
satisfied that the method it has used to calculate the redress is fair.
To explain, under the Account fees column of the Account Fees and Charges section of the 
document, this lists all of the monthly packaged account fees that Ms W paid. I note that Ms 
W initially paid a lower amount between January and March 2011. This likely reflects an 
initial discount on the monthly account fee that Lloyds would typically provide when account 
holders upgrade. The fee then increases to the full amount of £17 per month from 2 April 
2011. It also looks like the Platinum account fee increase is incorporated into this calculation, 
as the amount increased to £20 towards the end of 2019.
The Account fees column of the Account fees and charges without PBA/RA section of the 
document lists how much Ms W wouldve been charged had her account remained as a 
Select account. This shows that it wouldve remained at £8.95 per month  which again 
looks to be correct.
The Account fees, inc. reward adjustments column of the Redress  account level section of 
the document shows the difference between what Ms W was charged for the Platinum 
account and what she wouldve been charged had she held the Select account instead. The 
total for this column is shown as £1,280.39.
These are the fees that are to be refunded to Ms W, as she would not have paid these 
increased amounts, had the account continued as the cheaper Select account package. 
Finally, the furthest column on the right of the document is the 8% simple interest that has 
been calculated on the difference in account fees that are to be refunded. These are 
calculated from the date Ms W paid each fee, up to the date the redress was paid to Ms W. 
Having looked at the figures provided, these look to be correct and reflect the amount of time 
that has elapsed since each fee was charged. I should add that the interest is calculated on 
a simple, not compounded basis. I should also add that the total amount of £610.59 is the 
gross amount, which is £488.39 after basic rate tax has been deducted. Should Ms W need 
a tax certificate to show how much tax is deducted, she will need to contact Lloyds directly.
I note in the redress that Lloyds also included a refund of account fees of £80  which 
reflects four months of account fees. This was to allow Ms W time to decide what account 
she wanted to change to going forward. In my view, including this additional amount to allow 
Ms W some time to consider her options seems reasonable. 
I also note that Lloyds didnt make any deductions for any overdrafts savings that Ms W 
received as a result of having the Platinum account (that she wouldnt have received had 
she held the Select account instead). The Platinum account included a £250 (later increased 
to £300) interest free overdraft benefit and provided lower rates of interest on balances 
above this amount, up to the agreed limit. Whereas the Select account only included a £50 
interest free facility.To put Ms W back into the position she wouldve been in had she not had the Platinum 
account, Lloyds wouldve been reasonably entitled to also deduct the savings she received 
as a result of having the Platinum account, from the redress. The fact it didnt make such a 
deduction, means that its likely put Ms W in a better position than she wouldve been in, had 
she continued with the Select account.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the redress paid to Ms W was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Dissatisfied with Lloyds handling of the complaint
Finally, Ms Ws representative has raised concerns about how Lloyds dealt with the 
complaint. 
As the current Investigator has explained, it is the case that there are limits on what our 
service can deal with. And, generally speaking, complaint handling by a financial business, 
in itself, is not something that this service is generally able to deal with. Because of this, Im 
unable to comment on how Lloyds dealt with the complaint, in this decision. 
However, whilst I cant go into the ins an outs of how the complaint was handled, I thought it 
might help to point out (given Ms Ws representatives recent comments) that Lloyds issued 
its final response letter on 15 June 2022  which was within 8 weeks of Ms W raising her 
complaint on 25 May 2022.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Select account was mis-sold. But I 
do think that the Platinum account was mis-sold and I think that the redress that Lloyds Bank 
PLC has already paid to Ms W, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I therefore dont think that Lloyds Bank PLC needs to do anything more than what it has 
already done, to put matters right in this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman