DRN-3824504
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties. So I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows. 
In February 2022, Mr C was tricked into making two payments, totalling £1,200, for what he 
thought was the purchase of some scaffolding tubes, that hed seen on an online 
marketplace. But unknown to him at the time he was dealing with fraudsters. The payments 
he made were as follows;
23 February 2022 £1,000
26 February 2022 £200
Mr C raised the matter with Metro. Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.
Metro looked into Mr Cs complaint and issued its final response on 15 March 2022, not 
upholding it. In summary it said it gave a scam warning and Mr C hadnt taken reasonable 
steps to check if the payment was genuine.
Unhappy with Metros response, Mr C then brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In 
summary she thought Mr C had a reasonable basis for belief when making the first payment 
for £1,000, so thought Metro should refund this payment. But she thought at the time Mr C 
was making the payment for £200, there was enough going on for Mr C to realise the sale 
may not be legitimate, so she didnt think Metro were liable for refunding this payment to    
Mr C. 
Metro disagreed with our Investigators view. In summary it maintained that Mr C should 
have done more to question the seller. As well as this, it said Mr C had selected the incorrect 
purpose of payment.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having considered things carefully, Im satisfied that, adhering to the CRM Code, Metro 
should have refunded Mr C the first payment he lost, of £1,000. Im not persuaded any of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this payment. Ill 
explain why.
Ive carefully considered all Metros representations about whether Mr C had a reasonable 
basis for believing the purchase was genuine. Weighing everything up, I dont think it would 
have been evident to Mr C that there was a risk with this purchase, I say that because;
- Mr C saw the item he was interested in on a well-known social media platforms 
marketplace. He engaged with the seller through a number of messages. From 
reviewing these messages, I dont consider the seller was applying any pressure 
(which can often be the indicator of a scam), and the seller seemed knowledgeable 
about the items being sold.
- It doesnt seem to be the case here that the items Mr C was intending to buy, were 
being offered at a price that Mr C ought to have considered to be too good to be true 
(which is often, but not always, a hallmark of scams such as this).
- Mr C carried out checks on the company, both online and through Companies House 
and didnt see anything which concerned him. Which is not surprising given the 
nature of this scam, which was a fraudster impersonating a genuine company. 
- The fraudster was clever in gaining Mr Cs trust further by providing a legitimate 
looking invoice.  
- Metro has questioned why Mr C bought the goods from an online marketplace, when 
he could have purchased them from a well-known builders merchants. But in the 
circumstances of this case, I dont consider it follows that because Mr C chose to 
shop here, which is a legitimate marketplace after all, that this in itself ought to have 
caused him to question the legitimacy of what he was buying. 
- Metro has also argued that Mr C should have questioned why the employee was 
selling on Facebook. But I dont consider it implausible that an employee would be 
dealing with the sale of an item, on behalf of a company. So I can understand why  
Mr C reasonably moved passed this. Especially given he was told the beneficiary 
was one of the owners of the company. 
- Mr C also asked the fraudster if he could send £1 before proceeding with the 
payment for £1,000, to check the bank details were correct and the payment was 
going to be received. I think this supports that Mr C was taking steps to protect 
himself when making the payment. 
People dont want or expect to be scammed and I think overall Mr C took reasonable, 
appropriate and proportionate steps to try and protect himself, when he was making this 
payment for £1,000. I dont consider he had any reason to think the seller would not keep to 
their side of that bargain. The fact that the bank can think of additional things Mr C could 
have done does not mean that he did not do enough. Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that Metro has shown that Mr C lacked a reasonable basis of belief for making 
the payment for £1,000.
When considering the second payment Mr C made, for £200, I do think, by this point, there 
was enough going on that Mr C ought reasonably to have questioned what he was being 
told. Mr C has said that when the delivery hadnt materialised as expected, he had called the 
fraudster and told them he was going to come and find them, along with the police. But then, 
having hung up the phone, he called the fraudster back, and hes said the fraudster then told 
him if he paid £300 he would arrange for the delivery.
Mr C has said he questioned this, as the delivery was meant to have been included in the 
initial price, so he told the fraudster he couldnt pay this. But when the fraudster asked Mr C 
how much he could pay, he agreed to send another £200.
Im mindful Mr C has said that he had separate arrangements in place for a lorry to leave for 
his homeland, that was dependant on the delivery of goods he was expecting from the 
fraudster. So I can understand why he was keen to get things sorted out. But by now there 
had been issues with Mr C not receiving the goods as expected and, at this point he was at 
the address where he expected the scaffolding to be, but it wasnt there. Im persuaded that 
there were warning signs by now that things may not have been as they seemed.
Having considered the circumstances of the second payment, for £200, I cant fairly say     
Mr C has proceeded to make the payment with a reasonable basis for believing this payment 
was legitimate. Im persuaded this was sufficient reason for Metro to fairly decline to 
reimburse Mr C, with the payment he made for £200, under the CRM Code.
For completeness, I also dont think the warnings Metro presented Mr C with would be 
considered as effective under the CRM Code. While the warnings, in part, intend to warn 
customers about potential scams they may be at risk of. The warnings dont bring to life what 
the type of scam Mr C was falling victim to looked like or highlight the common features of 
these types of scam. They also dont make it clear that any money sent as a result of a scam 
would be lost and likely irrecoverable. However having said that, considering the relatively 
low value of the payments Mr C was making (and therefore a lesser indication that Mr C may 
be a risk of fraud), I dont consider there was a requirement on Metros part for an effective 
warning to be provided.
Finally, Ive thought about what Metro did when Mr C reported the scam. I can see it 
contacted the receiving bank, but unfortunately no funds remained to be recovered. I dont 
think Metro has missed an opportunity to recover the money Mr C has lost.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Metro Bank PLC, should now; 
- Refund Mr C the £1,000 payment, he lost as a result of this scam.
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Metro Bank 
PLC originally declined Mr Cs claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC in part.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman