DRN-3273145
The complaint
Miss M and Mr S complain that Nationwide Building Society has unfairly charged Miss M an 
early settlement charge on a mortgage when it should have transferred the mortgage to a 
new property instead.
What happened
Miss M owned a property she shared with Mr S, and had a mortgage with a fixed interest 
rate. There was an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage was repaid before 2024.
In late 2020 Miss M and Mr S wanted to buy a property that was at the time owned by a 
family member. They put their current home on the market and agreed a sale. They asked 
Nationwide to transfer or port the existing mortgage on to the new property and top up the 
amount. If they did this, it meant Miss M wouldnt have to pay the ERC. Miss M and Mr S got 
a decision in principle in mid-December, and a full mortgage application was started. As part 
of the process a valuation was carried out in early January 2021. The valuer said he didnt 
think the property was suitable for a residential mortgage. That was for several reasons, 
amongst them that this was a large property with a small commercial element  and the 
valuer didnt think there was much demand for this sort of property should it become 
necessary to sell it.
The member of staff helping Miss M and Mr S with their application asked that the decision 
be reviewed  but without success. The application was finally declined on 25 January.
Miss M and Mr S had by this time moved out of their old property and say they were very 
stressed by this as they had to stay with family, which they hadnt intended to do. They did 
find a lender prepared to offer a loan on the new property, but then had to redeem Miss Ms 
old mortgage and pay about £8,000 in early repayment charges.
Miss M and Mr S say the valuer was wrong when he valued the property as he did and that 
the small commercial element is in fact an old shop front that they cant remove because of 
the age of the building. When they complained, Nationwide acknowledged the difficulties 
theyd had and paid them £300 for the stress and inconvenience theyd suffered. But it said it 
had assessed their mortgage application in line with its normal practises, and had applied 
the ERC in line with Miss Ms mortgage agreement, so it wouldnt refund this.
Our investigator looked at the complaint for Miss M and Mr S. He thought Nationwide was 
entitled to rely on the opinion of the valuer, and if they didnt think the property was suitable 
for a residential mortgage then there was no compulsion for Nationwide to port the existing 
mortgage as Miss M and Mr S wanted. He noted Nationwides criteria in respect of large 
properties and didnt think it had done anything wrong when it declined the application. He 
thought the £300 was a fair way to compensate Miss M and Mr S for any distress theyd 
suffered.
Miss M and Mr S dont think this is fair so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment on every point made: instead Ill concentrate on the key issues as I 
see them. But I have considered everything provided by both parties.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I understand this will disappoint Miss M and Mr S, but 
Ill explain how Ive reached this conclusion.
I have no doubt Miss M and Mr S were told that they could port Miss Ms mortgage to a new 
property. But I also think they were most likely told, as is the norm, that this would be subject 
to them qualifying for the new mortgage  which would include the property being valued. 
The member of staff from Nationwide says thats what he tells customers in this situation. 
Although there arent any available call recordings I understand he has many years 
experience, and I see no reason to doubt him.
Problems only arose after the valuation was carried out. The valuer didnt think the property 
was suitable security for a mortgage and explained why. Whilst he did mention a possible 
commercial use, that wasnt the only reason why he didnt think this property was suitable. It 
might help if I explain that the reason a lender takes a mortgage over a property is to ensure 
it can recoup however much its owed by selling the property if it has to. A property that 
might be difficult to sell is unlikely to be accepted.
I can see that the valuer later supported his comments about the lack of interest generally in 
this property by pointing out that it had failed to sell at auction some time earlier. He also 
said the reserve price (£180,000) was lower than Miss M and Mr S were now planning on 
paying for the property. That does suggest that Nationwide might have difficulty selling the 
property in its existing state if it needed to. 
Nationwide uses professional valuers to support its decisions when deciding whether to lend. 
I think its entitled to rely on such reports, so I cant say it did anything wrong when it relied 
on this one.
I appreciate Miss M and Mr S think the valuer was wrong, but I havent seen any evidence 
that contradicts his conclusion that the property would be hard to sell. Even without the 
number of bedrooms and the shop front, this point alone could well lead to any lender 
deciding it didnt want to provide a mortgage.
Miss M pointed out that the valuer said at one point that the property would cost £650,000 to 
replace  so it must be worth a substantial amount on the open market. She thinks him 
saying the property had no value is unfair. I understand why Miss M thinks this, especially as 
she and Mr S managed to get a mortgage elsewhere. Im glad she and Mr S have found a 
lender prepared to take this property as security. Each lender has its own criteria that reflect 
the level of risk its prepared to take, and thats a commercial decision they  and Nationwide 
 are entitled to take. The valuer here was looking at whether the property was suitable for a 
mortgage in line with Nationwides lending criteria. And he was doing that for Nationwide, not 
Miss M and Mr S. I cant say he was unfair when he said the property didnt have a value if 
he concluded it was unsuitable for a mortgage. 
Taking everything into account I cant ask Nationwide to refund the ERC, as thats been 
charged in line with the terms and conditions of the old mortgage.
I do understand that Miss M and Mr S were upset that theyd sold their old property and were without their own home for a while. But it was their decision to agree a completion date for 
their old property, and they hadnt been guaranteed the new mortgage by Nationwide. 
Nationwide did acknowledge that this was a stressful and disappointing time for Miss M and 
Mr S. I think the payment of £300 was reasonable compensation for this. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman