DRN-3327142
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund a payment. The 
director of N, Miss S, also says Barclays prevented her from accessing online banking for 
too long.
What happened
Our investigator covered the background to this complaint in some detail, so I find no need 
to repeat everything again here.
In summary, Miss S is the director of N, a limited company. N held a business account and 
Miss S held a personal account with Barclays.
N received a bounce back loan in September 2020. Later that month a large payment was 
made to a third-party company, which represented a large part of the loan funds. Miss S 
says she didnt make the payment or otherwise agree to it. She says Barclays should have 
contacted her prior to allowing the payment to debit Ns account. 
Miss S later had difficulty accessing online banking despite Barclays agreeing to remove the 
blocks they placed on it being accessed following Miss Ss report of fraud.
Barclays decided the information and evidence they had pointed to Miss S making the 
disputed payment. They acknowledged they should have given her access to online banking 
earlier, and they paid her £200 for the delay and to compensate her for phone calls she 
made trying to sort the problem out.
Miss S wasnt satisfied by Barclays answer. She wants the payment refunded to N, and 
further compensation due to the financial loss she says N experienced and the impact 
Barclays actions had on her.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They found:
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) generally require Barclays to refund a 
payment a customer didnt consent to. But considering all the information available, it was 
understandable why Barclays decided Miss S did agree to the payment.
Barclays initially blocked the payment, but someone rang them to confirm the payment was 
genuine. After comparing some of the calls that person made to Barclays with the calls Miss 
S made to our service, they sound like the same person. So, this strongly points to Miss S 
agreeing to the payment.
Its unclear how the person who rang Barclays obtained the large amount of personal 
information they needed to access Miss S online banking and pass through Barclays 
security. Only someone close to Miss S could have known or had access to this information. 
And, given the person who made the phone calls sounded like Miss S, it was likely her who 
made the payment. 
The £200 Barclays paid Miss S was fair compensation for Barclays not letting her to access 
online banking earlier.
Miss S disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached. She asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman, so Ns complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to not uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
Under the PSRs Barclays needs to refund N if Miss S or someone acting on her 
behalf didnt consent to the payment. So, I must decide whether based on the 
evidence I have it was fair for Barclays to conclude she did consent to the payment.
Ns account was accessed by online banking without using Barclays PIN sentry 
system. To access online banking this way the alleged fraudster needed to know 
either Miss Ws membership number, sort code and account number or card number. 
They also needed both her passcode and memorable word. There is no record of the 
passcode or memorable word being changed. And Miss S has not provided a 
plausible scenario to explain how someone would have known those details, 
particularly as prior to 20 February 2020, she had not accessed online banking this 
way for several years.
The device used to make the payment was set up using Barclays PIN sentry system, 
which required the business debit card for Ns account. Miss S says the card was 
kept on her windowsill, so its possible somebody could have taken it, such as a 
visitor. But to register the device, the cards PIN was also needed. Miss S has not 
provided a plausible explanation as to how a fraudster would know the PIN, 
particularly as no card and PIN payments were made on Ns account.
I listened to several of the calls the alleged fraudster made to Barclays when trying to 
make the payment. And I listened to several calls Miss S made to our service. I agree 
the person on the calls sounds very similar to Miss S, to the extent that it would be 
reasonable to conclude they are the same person.
Miss S experienced some inconvenience and frustration trying to access online 
banking after reporting the payment. Barclays paid £200 for their delay and to 
compensate her for the cost of phone calls. I find this is a fair sum, particularly given 
the evidence points to Miss S consenting to the disputed payment. And I have borne 
in mind that the mistakes Barclays made ultimately stem from the dispute she raised 
about the payment.
So, I find Barclays acted fairly by concluding Miss S consented to the payment. As a result, I 
am not directing them to refund the payment to N or to pay Miss S more in compensation.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision on behalf of N before 24 March 2022.
 Liam King
Ombudsman