DRN-4514112
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited plc and their contractors have 
incorrectly assessed her claim for storm damage and not paid a fair settlement.   
What happened
Mrs K held a buildings insurance policy with RSA. 
In September 2022 Mrs K made a claim under her buildings insurance policy as her roof was 
damaged during a storm. 
RSA appointed a contractor to visit the property and survey the damage. He reported that 
the storm had caused damage to the ridge tiles and some roof tiles. Some internal damage 
was also assessed and paid for and Mrs K is satisfied with that part of her claim.  
 Mrs K says that the external damage was more extensive than RSA said and included a 
broken chimney stack, broken and missing roof tiles, damaged soffits and a broken batten 
under the tiles that was caused by the aerial being blown off during the storm. 
RSAs contractors initially offered a settlement of £1550 after the excess deduction and then 
increased this to £1751.40 after accepting that some of the soffits also needed replacing.
Mrs K was unhappy with this settlement offer and so RSAs contractor agreed to appoint 
their approved repairer to carry out the work. However, their lead time was three months and 
Mrs K was unhappy with this as winter was approaching and was worried her roof was liable 
to further leak if it wasnt repaired. She therefore submitted further quotes for RSA so that 
she could use her own contractor. RSA asked for a breakdown of these costs. Mrs K 
provided breakdowns but RSA didnt increase the settlement offer. 
Mrs K was unhappy with this and so she raised a complaint. 
RSA responded saying that they had reviewed the matter but under the terms and conditions 
of the policy they will only pay the lowest of either the cost of the repairs by their own 
contractor, or the lowest quote provided by the customers nominated contractor. 
Mrs K was unhappy with this and so she brought her complaint to us. 
 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ks complaint and he thought that RSA had 
acted in line with the terms of the policy and settled the claim fairly. 
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider:
1. Were storm conditions present on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened
2. Is the damage consistent with damage caused by a storm? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, then a claim will usually succeed.  
Were storm conditions present
It is agreed by RSA that although the damage wasnt reported till September 2022, it was 
caused by Storm Eunice in February 2022.   
Is the damage consistent with the damage caused by a storm
The photographs taken after the storm show that there are missing ridge tiles, and a fallen 
aerial. Im satisfied that this is the sort of damage that could be caused by a storm. 
 
Were storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
The initial surveyors report from September 2022 says that he thought displacement to ridge 
tiles and surrounding tile area were attributable to Storm Eunice but there were previous 
issues not related to this. The scope of works allows for damage to five metres of fascias 
and soffits, removing ridge tiles and resetting, replacing where necessary, stripping and 
renewing clay tiles and battens where necessary and associated labour and clean up costs  
the surveyors have costed it at £1696.63 including scaffold costs. 
However, the report also shows that they considered that some of the issues related to the 
chimney stack and fascias were not storm related. Whilst the storm was the main cause of 
the damage, it wasnt the main cause of all of the damage. 
Mrs K has paid her own contractor £3250 for all the repairs that she has had done, but I 
havent seen a breakdown of these costs, so Im unsure how this has been arrived at. She 
says she is unable to get a breakdown from the roofer who undertook the work. RSA say 
that the work that has been done extends beyond the scope of works, and the photographs 
after completion show work that they didnt consider was included. 
So Ive thought about whether RSA have acted fairly and reasonably in their assessment of 
the damage, and in the settlement they have offered. 
There are two issues here  firstly what damage was it fair to include in the settlement and 
secondly, was the settlement offer for the damage included a fair offer. 
Im satisfied that RSAs surveyors have included the majority of the work required in their 
scope. However, Im not satisfied that they have fairly excluded the chimney repairs related 
to the aerial falling down. They have said that photographs from google in 2012 show that 
there was no aerial  and so it cant be included. I accept that there is no visible aerial in the  
2012 picture. However, this was 10 years before the storm and so it is too old to be reliable. 
In addition, Mrs K has provided us with a picture from after the storm, showing the aerial 
lying in the valley of the roof, still attached to the pole by the aerial wire. Mrs K has also 
provided testimony that she lost her television signal following the storm. On that basis Im 
prepared to accept that the damage to the chimney and the tiles was caused by the falling 
aerial as a result of the storm.  
The fascias and soffits were originally excluded by the surveyor, but later included for a 5m 
stretch. That would seem to cover the length of fascia board that it appears needed 
replacing in the photographs. And so Im satisfied that there is sufficient inclusion for the 
fascias.     
So, taking the above into account, Ive then considered whether RSAs settlement offer of 
£1751.40 (after the deduction of the £100 excess) was fair and reasonable. 
The policy says:
How much we pay if you go ahead with repairs, and if you dont. Where repairs are carried 
out, the amount well pay will be either:
 The cost of the work if it was carried out by our nominated contractor, or
 The cost of the work based on the most competitive estimate or tender you got from your 
nominated contractors.
Well pay whichevers the lower amount.
The sum that RSAs surveyor came to was £1851.40
Mrs K obtained three quotes for work. These were:
£3250 to include replacement of all soffits and fascias, renew some guttering, replace 
broken tiles, ridge tiles, and repair the damaged chimney stack. 
£4400 to replace fascias, soffits and guttering, replace a line of hips and cap the 
chimney. 
£7320 including replacement of soffits and fascias, ridge tiles, roof tiles, the chimney 
stack and scaffolding. 
These quotes all included significant sums for replacement of soffits and fascias and are not 
all broken down in the same way, so its not easy to see from these quotes exactly what is 
quoted for the items in the scope of work. So I dont think these quotes can be relied on to 
accurately reflect the cost of repairing just the storm damage.  In addition, the company who 
actually undertook the work havent provided a breakdown, or a full invoice  which would 
have been the best way of establishing the cost. 
I also note that the photographs of the roof after the work was completed show that all the 
hip tiles have been removed and renewed, when the damage was only to a small section of 
around three tiles at the bottom of the hip, and so it does appear - as RSA have stated - that 
some of the work completed went further than rectification of the storm damage.  
In view of this, I think that the fairest way to settle this claim would be for RSA to pay the 
settlement amount that is quoted in their surveyors report, but to include an additional 
amount for the repair of the chimney stack, which for the reasons I have said above should 
be included. 
As RSA havent quoted for the chimney stack repair, Ive looked at the quotes obtained for 
some guidance here, and they all seem to indicate that the chimney stack repair would cost 
around £300, so I am minded to add £300 to the settlement figure offered, making the total 
settlement £2151.40 before deduction of the excess.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Both Mrs K and RSA have responded. RSA have accepted my decision, and Mrs K has no 
further comments to make, so in the light of this Im making my final decision in line with my 
provisional findings.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I think RSA should pay Mrs K a settlement figure of £2051.40 
after the deduction of the excess.
 
My final decision
My final decision is I am upholding Mrs Ks complaint and directing Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to put things right as outlined above.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman