DRN-3457244
The complaint
Mr S complains that Premia Solutions Ltd, trading as Kudos Insurance Brokers, mis-sold him 
a commercial insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S operates a business I shall refer to as N. He took out cover for this business several 
years ago and his policy has renewed on more than one occasion, seemingly with no 
significant change to the terms or cover. The broker who originally sold the policy  on an 
advised basis  was not Premia. However, Premia did arrange the renewal of the policy in 
2019.
When N had to close as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, Mr S contacted his 
insurer to claim for his loss of income. At this point, Mr S realised that the policy he had only 
provided him with cover for £30,000 lost income, whereas he had intended to take out a 
policy providing £300,000 cover. This had been the case since the policy was originally 
incepted. As such, whilst Mr S's insurer met his claims, they only paid a proportion of his 
losses. 
It should be noted that I have not considered as part of this complaint whether the actions of 
the insurer in this regard were fair or reasonable. 
Mr S complaint to Premia, saying that he had been mis-sold the policy as it did not meet his 
needs. Mr S felt that Premia should have carried out a review of his needs and identified the 
error in the level of cover when recommending the policy be renewed in 2019.
Premia responded, saying that the full details had been provided to Mr S at renewal. And 
that he had not queried this level of cover  merely a different aspect of cover. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our Service. And our Investigator agreed that Premia had 
mis-sold the policy. The Investigator explained that the key consideration was the renewal in 
2019. This renewed policy was sold on an advised basis, with Premia responsible for 
confirming that it was suitable for Mr S. So, when Premia recommended the policy saying It 
is adequate for your requirements as detailed in the Demands and Needs Statement the 
Investigator felt they had recommended an unsuitable product. Had Mr S been sold a policy 
with a suitable level of cover, his claims wouldve been met in full. And the Investigator said 
that Premia needed to cover the shortfall in the settlement of Mr Ss claims. 
Premia disagreed, saying it had attempted to contact Mr S at the point of renewal but that he 
had not raised this issue. And that the policy had always provided only £30,000 of cover, so 
Premia was not responsible for any error. 
As the Investigator was not persuaded to change his opinion, this complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Premia has referred to the actions of the previous broker who was responsible for the initial 
inception of the policy. However, this complaint is about the actions of Premia in 2019 at the 
point of renewal. 
This 2019 renewal was carried out on an advised basis. So, Premia had a responsibility to 
ensure it was recommending a policy that was suitable for Mr Ss needs. The statement of 
fact that makes up part of the policy documents confirms that Mr S had stated Ns annual 
turnover as being £300,000. However, it also confirmed that the Gross Profit cover provided 
by the policy had been limited to £30,000. 
Turnover is not the same as Gross Profit. However, without seeking clarification of the 
difference in these figures, I dont consider Premia could reasonably say it had discharged 
its responsibility in ensuring the policy was suitable for Mr S. 
Premia has said that it did try to speak with Mr S at the time, but that he was not fully 
available. However, in such circumstances, I consider  at worst  Premia shouldve given 
its recommendation with caution. For example, it might have said the policy appeared 
generally suitable but highlighted the disparity in the figures for Mr S to specifically consider.
I do not consider it is enough that the documents provided to Mr S set out the figures 
involved. The fact there was a huge difference between the business turnover and the 
insured profit should have been specifically highlighted, with a warning that this might make 
the policy unsuitable. 
Ultimately, in carrying out an advised sale, it was for Premia to satisfy itself that the policy 
was suitable for Mr Ss needs. Mr S had provided the information that would have allowed 
Premia to either say the policy was unsuitable or to say that it was unable to recommend it 
as being suitable without the necessary clarification. But Premia did not do this and so I 
consider it is liable for the reasonably foreseeable consequences of this. 
When Mr S came to make his claims for the different lockdown periods that fell within the 
policy term, his insurer did not fully meet these claims. And I think an issue in relation to this 
wouldve been something reasonably foreseeable to Premia at the point of renewal.
Putting things right
Premia should make up the shortfall in the claims Mr S made. Mr S made two claims.
I understand that Mr Ss insurer calculated Ns losses for the first lockdown as being 
£42,188, but only paid £5,758. So, Premia needs to pay Mr S the deficit of £36,430 on this 
claim. And Premia needs to add interest to this sum from the date this claim was partially 
met by Mr Ss insurer to the date Premia pays the settlement.
And I understand that Mr Ss insurer calculated Ns losses for the second lockdown as being 
£24,117, but only paid £3,109. So, Premia needs to pay Mr S the deficit of £21,008. And 
Premia needs to add interest to this sum from the date this claim was partially met by Mr Ss 
insurer to the date Premia pays the settlement.
In total, Premia needs to pay Mr S £57,438 plus the appropriate interest on this amount. The 
interest should be calculated on the basis of 8% simple per annum, from the relevant dates for the two claims, up until the date Premia settles this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Premia Solutions Ltd  trading as Kudos 
Insurance Brokers should put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman