DRN-3605290
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from ReAssure Limited when he withdrew 
money on multiple occasions from his pension in 2020 and 2021.
What happened
Mr S had a pension with Legal and General which was taken over by ReAssure. Mr S is 
complaining about the following withdrawal requests he made since ReAssure took over:
September 2020: £8,000
March 2021: £3,000
June 2021: £6,250
August 2021: £3,000
Mr S is unhappy how these requests were handled, how long they took and that each time 
the process was different and more complicated in his view than it needed to be. Every time 
he had to chase up responses including when promised call backs werent made or 
expected payment dates werent met. 
He also complains that ReAssure didnt correctly deduct tax from his pension and incorrectly 
reported to HMRC which has led to ongoing problems with his tax records.
ReAssure offered Mr S £250 in compensation for any troubles caused. Unsatisfied with this 
response he referred his complaint to this Service. 
One of our investigators considered his complaint and found that his complaint about the 
withdrawal in September 2020 had been brought too late. He had received a final response 
from ReAssure in November 2020 giving him six months to refer his complaint to us. As Mr 
S only contacted us about his complaint in September 2021, we could not consider this part 
of his complaint.
He upheld the rest of Mr Ss complaint and asked ReAssure to increase their compensation 
to £400.
ReAssure accepted the investigators view. Mr S didnt think the compensation amount in 
any way reflected the time and effort he had to spend chasing responses from ReAssure 
and the frustration and distress their actions had caused him. 
As no informal resolution could be achieved, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided very detailed submissions which I have considered in full. Ive not 
provided a detailed response to all the arguments raised nor repeated everything that has 
happened. Thats deliberate. Our service is an informal one for resolving disputes between 
financial businesses and their customers. Our investigator has also already provided 
detailed answers to many of Mr Ss arguments and set out what happened. 
Ive considered all the points raised and Ill answer the relevant points within my findings but 
not necessarily specifically and point by point. My findings will concentrate on what I think is 
relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I also note Mr S was unhappy with the ways Mr S dealt with his complaint and the 
unsatisfactory answers he received as well as ReAssure paying compensation into his 
account when he had rejected it.  However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so 
Im not able to consider these aspects of his complaint. 
Withdrawal request in September 2020
I agree with the investigator that the complaint about this withdrawal has been brought too 
late. We cannot consider a complaint which is referred to us more than six months after a 
business has issued their final response. Exceptions are if the business has consented to us 
doing to (which ReAssure hasnt) or if the complainant was prevented by exceptional 
circumstances to bring their complaint earlier. Mr S was in constant contact with ReAssure 
so I cant see any exceptional circumstances why he wouldnt have been able to refer his 
complaint to us within the time limits.
Other withdrawals
I recognise that every time Mr S requested a withdrawal, he was told different things about 
the necessary processes. For example, he had been previously able to deal with things over 
the phone whereas later ReAssure said they were only able to deal with it by post. Mr S was 
also told he would be sent forms by email which he was later told wasnt possible. And he 
needed to provide a bank statement which in previous transactions he hadnt needed. He 
also was promised call backs that didnt happen and was promised earlier payments which 
were then delayed. I can see how this inconsistent information would have been frustrating. 
I can also see that withdrawals took longer at times than Mr S was told they would take. I 
understand Mr S thinks a withdrawal should take five to seven working days and he says he 
had received this service from Legal and General in the past. However, whilst I think some of 
the transactions could have been done quicker, ReAssure made it clear from the start that a 
withdrawal would take 10-15 working days and I dont think these timescales are generally 
as unreasonable as Mr S thinks. The withdrawal in March took 20 working days, but this was 
in part because Mr S didnt provide a bank statement which was clearly stated as a 
requirement in his paperwork. The withdrawals in June and August were processed in the 
quoted timescales.
This isnt to say the service in this regard was perfect and I recognise Mr S needed the 
money urgently on a couple of occasions, so having to chase payments and being told 
different things each time would have understandably been frustrating. And I do think some 
of the processes could have been more efficient and quicker.
Tax issuesMr Ss withdrawal of £6,250 was not taxed which Mr S queried in early August 2021. When 
Mr S requested a further withdrawal of £3,000 later that month, he expected to receive 
£2,400 (after 20% tax). However, he only received £1,500.
ReAssure explained to him that a tax code of 1257L was applied when he made his request 
in June. As his withdrawal request of £6,250 had been within his tax-free allowance, no tax 
had been taken at that point. Shortly after, in July 2021, HMRC had provided a tax code of 
BR (basic rate) on an accumulative basis. This meant 20% tax was applicable on Mr Ss 
combined withdrawals of £9,250. This amounted to £1,850. ReAssure said the maximum 
they were allowed to deduct was 50% in tax which is why £1,500 was deducted on the 
August payment.
Mr S says he got information from HMRC some time later that they had in fact made a 
mistake and the BR code in July shouldnt have been on an accumulative basis. If reported 
correctly by HMRC Mr S would have only paid 20% tax on the August payment.
Another tax code was provided by HMRC in early October and ReAssure recalculated Mr 
Ss tax which resulted in a refund to him of £1,500. At the time Mr S complained he didnt 
receive any previous notification of this refund and it confused matters as he had already 
started a reclaim process with HMRC. However, Ive seen a copy of the letter that ReAssure 
sent Mr S in advance of the payment and they sent him another letter afterwards. 
I understand that having no tax deducted in June and then a lot more tax deducted in August 
would have been disconcerting and distressing, particularly as he needed the August 
payment for a specific purpose. However, ReAssure will deduct tax in line with the tax codes 
provided by HMRC who have admitted they made a mistake by providing a BR code on an 
accumulative basis rather than on a standard basis which led to a higher deduction in 
August. So I dont think ReAssure made a mistake here.
I understand Mr S feels there might still be outstanding issues with his tax which he now 
needs to take up with HMRC. I can see ReAssure provided him with the information of what 
sums were paid to him and what tax was deducted, so Mr S should be in the position to 
clarify with HMRC if he is still due any tax or needs to pay more. HMRC is the only entity 
who has full information about how much tax he ought to have paid during this time and Mr S 
is best placed to make these enquiries. If HMRC confirms to Mr S that he is still owed a tax 
refund relating to the above mentioned withdrawals and the monies are held with ReAssure, 
I expect them to refund these to Mr S. However, currently I cant see that this is the case.
Putting things right
I can see Mr S spent a lot of time with ReAssure on the phone chasing withdrawals, 
querying the processes he didnt agree with and trying to clarify his tax issues. And I 
understand dealing with ReAssure on numerous occasions where things didnt go as 
smoothly as he wanted caused him stress and anxiety and he said this had an affect on his 
health. Ive taken this into account when awarding compensation.
The customer service Mr S received wasnt by all means perfect and transactions could 
have likely been a quicker and more streamlined. ReAssure on several occasions promised 
a payment or call back on a certain date which then didnt happen. However, looking at 
everything Mr S and ReAssure have provided, I consider the suggested payment by the 
investigator of £400 as fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate Mr S feels this is a derisory amount for the time he spent and the appalling 
service he considers he received over a couple of years. And I understand he thinks the 
award should be higher as this amount is insignificant to a large company as ReAssure and wont make them change their ways. However, as the investigator already explained to Mr S 
in detail, it isnt this Services role to punish businesses for their mistakes, but to award fair 
and reasonable compensation to individuals in their particular complaint. And we dont 
consider it reasonable to apply an hourly rate to the time Mr S spent on this complaint which 
in his view would lead to compensation of nearly £15,000. This simply wouldnt be at all 
proportionate in my view to ReAssures errors here.
In the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint I consider an award of £400 reasonable taking into 
account ReAssures mistakes and the impact this had on Mr S. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require ReAssure to pay him £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman