DRN-1731482
The complaint
Mrs S says St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs S bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a preference account, which 
was a type of revolving credit similar to a credit card. Mrs S applied for the credit and was 
sold the PPI during a telephone call. The credit agreement was then sent to Mrs S for her to 
check, sign and return.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs S case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S complaint and Ill explain why.
After 20 years it isnt surprising that St Andrews has not retained a copy of the telephone 
call.
But Ive looked at the application form for the credit signed by Mrs S. I can see Mrs S ticked 
a box on the application form to confirm she wanted to take the PPI. So, I think its more 
likely Mrs S was aware she had a choice and chose to take out PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think St Andrews made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may 
not remember this, given how long ago it was.
In this decision Ive assumed St Andrews gave Mrs S advice. As such it had a responsibility 
to ensure the PPI was right for her. I think it was right for her for the following reasons:
Mrs S was eligible for the policy. And she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. For example, Mrs S has not told us of any medical 
conditions she had at the time that wouldnt be covered. So, Mrs S would have been able to 
make a claim if shed have needed to.
Mrs S has said his employer would have paid her some sick pay if she became too unwell to 
work. But the PPI policy could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim. So, 
I still think the policy could have been useful to Mrs S especially if she became unwell for a 
lengthy period of time.The PPI would also have paid the monthly benefit if Mrs S had lost her job.
The PPI would also mean Mrs S didnt have to use her savings to pay her repayments if she 
couldnt work. Instead she could use any savings for other living costs.
It is possible St Andrews didnt give Mrs S all the information it should have. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I need to decide if Mrs S would have changed her mind 
about buying the policy if she been given better or clearer information. I cant say she would 
have done. The policy was right for her, it looks like she was interested in this type of cover 
and Ive not seen anything to make me think it was unaffordable to her.
I note Mrs S has told us she tried to make a claim after an accident but was not able to. But 
St Andrews has told us Mrs S did make a successful claim in 2007 and received £1,166.88. 
And St Andrews has told us it has no record of any unsuccessful claims made by Mrs S.
In summary I think Mrs S was likely given a fair choice about whether to buy the PPI or not. I 
think the policy was right for her and even if St Andrew's had given her all the clear 
information it should have, shed still have bought it.
Which means St Andrews doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But St Andrews has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
St Andrews got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because St Andrews didnt tell Mrs S, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, St Andrews has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so St Andrews Insurance Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But St Andrews Insurance Plc does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman