DRN-2274571
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) repaired her car under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019, Miss Rs car was involved in an accident which left it making noise and 
with a damaged front bumper and grill. She contacted her motor insurer, RSA, and its 
approved repairers repaired her car. The repairs included a replacement front bumper.
Miss R was unhappy with the repairs and said there were new scratches on her car. So her 
car went back to RSAs approved repairers for further work. Miss R got her car back but 
says it was still left making a noise and something flew off it when she was driving a few 
days later.
RSA arranged for an independent engineer to look at Miss Rs car. They visually inspected 
the front and underside. Their report said theyd not found anything broken off or missing, 
and the car performed normally in a road test. But the report said they were concerned about 
the front end panel alignment, and this needed investigation and possible adjustments. 
Miss R says her car then failed its MOT due to a broken road spring, which was what had 
flown off her car. She asked RSA to cover the £180 cost of replacing the spring. And said 
she wanted her own garage to fix her car as shed lost trust in RSA. But that her garage 
wouldnt do the repairs because the replacement bumper RSA had fitted was manufacturer 
approved and not manufacturer original. Miss R became unhappy with how long RSA was 
taking, so she contacted our service. 
RSA said it was entitled to fit manufacturer approved parts and that the independent 
engineer said the spring was a common issue in Miss Rs type of car. But it agreed to pay 
Miss R £180 for the spring as it couldnt be sure it hadnt been damaged in the collision. And 
it offered for another of its approved repairers to inspect Miss Rs car, saying that if the 
misalignment was caused by the bumper it had fitted, it would replace the bumper with an 
original one. And if the car could be fixed without a new bumper, then its repairer would do 
so and it would guarantee the work. 
However, it seems Miss R insisted that her own garage replace the bumper with an original 
one. In its final complaint response, RSA said it wouldnt agree to this unless Miss Rs 
garage confirmed the alignment issue couldnt be fixed without an original bumper. It asked 
Miss R to provide comments and an estimate from her own garage for review by the 
independent engineer. But RSA said it had given Miss R poor service, and offered her £100 
for not completing the repairs correctly and £50 for a delay in responding to her complaint. 
Added to the £180 for the spring, RSA offered Miss R total compensation of £330 for her 
distress and inconvenience and financial loss. 
After looking into things, our investigator said RSA had replaced the bumper in line with the 
terms of the policy and had offered Miss R a fair and reasonable way to have any necessary 
repairs done. And he thought £330 was fair compensation for the poor handling and spring.
Miss R disagreed, saying RSA hadnt fixed her car properly because the bumper needed 
replacing with an original one and should pay for her garage to do this. She provided her 
garages quote for replacing the front bumper, front spoiler and front grille. And said shed 
been told by local garages that her car would need to be taken apart to see if it could be 
fixed without a new bumper. 
RSA said this wasnt enough information - it said it needed an engineer to explain why a new 
original bumper was required to fix the alignment. Miss R said she couldnt provide this until 
her garage removed the bumper, at extra cost. RSA agreed to pay a reasonable cost for this 
bumper removal, but said it still needed written reasoning for why an original bumper was 
necessary. Miss R wanted RSA to arrange this directly with her garage, but RSA said it had 
already offered reasonable options and didnt think a new bumper was needed anyway. 
Ultimately, our investigator still thought RSA had offered a fair and reasonable way to put 
things right. Miss R disagreed, saying that while RSA could fit manufacturer approved parts, 
these might not be suitable for all vehicles and might have been fitted incorrectly in her case. 
And while she was satisfied with the compensation RSA had offered, her bumper still 
needed to be aligned or replaced. She said the new approved repairer RSA had offered was 
an hour away from her, so she wouldnt be able to talk to it in person about the repairs and 
was concerned about whether it might further damage her car.
As Miss R disagreed with our investigator, her complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA accepts it gave Miss R poor service regarding her claim and complaint, and its agreed 
to pay for the spring. Miss R has told us shes satisfied with the total of £330 its offered her 
for this and any distress and inconvenience shes experienced. As those points are no 
longer in dispute, I wont consider them further. 
But what is still in dispute, and what Miss R says is the crux of her complaint, is whether 
RSA has done enough to resolve the front end alignment of her car.
Miss R says the misalignment was caused by RSA replacing her bumper with a 
manufacturer approved bumper, instead of one made by the manufacturer of her car. But the 
terms and conditions of Miss Rs policy entitle RSA to use manufacturer approved parts, 
rather than original parts. They say If your car is lost or damaged we: may decide to use 
recycled parts or parts or accessories that are not supplied by the original manufacturer. 
Therefore, Im satisfied it hasnt done anything wrong in using a manufacturer approved part.  
Nonetheless, the independent engineers report clearly says that the front end alignment of 
Miss Rs car needs to be investigated and possibly adjusted. 
Miss R says the bumper RSA fitted has caused the misalignment, and that local garages told 
her theyve seen this problem before so they wont look at her car until RSA has agreed to 
pay for an original bumper. 
The independent engineers report doesnt say that a replacement original bumper is 
required to fix the alignment (only that the alignment should be investigated and possibly 
adjusted), so I think its reasonable for RSA to ask Miss R for a written explanation from her garage as to why an original bumper is necessary to fix the alignment, and for it to want to 
pass this to the independent engineer for review. 
I know Miss R has provided her garages quote for replacing the front bumper, front spoiler 
and front grille. But it doesnt contain any comments or evidence to show why this work is 
necessary. So Ive not seen enough evidence to be satisfied the bumper RSA fitted caused 
the alignment concerns. Therefore, I cant fairly say RSA should cover the cost of Miss Rs 
local garage replacing the bumper with a manufacturer original one. 
However, RSA has offered Miss R two options for moving forward any necessary work. Its 
offered to have another of its approved repairers inspect her car and repair it if necessary, 
including replacing the bumper with an original one if that is required to fix the alignment. 
I can understand why Miss R might have lost trust in RSAs approved repairers and would 
instead prefer that her own garage do any investigation and necessary repairs. I say that 
because despite an RSA repairer taking her car in twice, an independent engineer noted an 
alignment issue still needs to be investigated and possibly adjusted. 
But RSA has also offered to pay a reasonable cost for Miss Rs own garage to remove the 
bumper so it can inspect her car and provide the report RSA has asked for about why an 
original bumper is necessary to fix the alignment. And then RSA will consider the matter 
further in light of this report. I think thats fair. 
I know Miss R wants RSA to just arrange for her garage to do the work and use an original 
bumper, but I dont think its fair and reasonable to make RSA meet the cost of this at this 
stage.
Taking everything into consideration, I think RSA has offered Miss R fair and reasonable 
options. So Im not asking it to anything further here.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. But as it has already offered to 
do, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n should either arrange for 
another of its own approved repairers to carry out an inspection of Miss Rs car, and any 
necessary repairs. Or it should pay a reasonable cost for Miss Rs own garage to remove the 
bumper so it can inspect her car and provide a report on why a new original bumper is 
necessary. And once it receives this report, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as 
More Th>n should then consider the matter further in light of it. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n should also pay Miss R the £330 
compensation it has already offered her for the spring and her distress and inconvenience, if 
it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman