DRN-1958771
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Nationwide Building Society (trading as Portman Building 
Society at the time of the sale) mis-sold them a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with Nationwide in June 2003. They were sold the PPI in 
connection with this mortgage. 
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Ps names, the PPI only covered Mrs P. It 
would have provided a monthly for up to 12 months if Mrs P was off work sick.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld as they thought there 
was insufficient evidence to conclude that Mr and Mrs P had actively selected PPI and that it 
wasnt made clear that PPI was a separate product to the mortgage. Nationwide didnt agree 
with the adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issues a provisional decision in this case in May 2020 explaining why I didnt think this 
complaint should be upheld. I asked both parties to provide me with any further information 
and/or evidence they would like me to consider. Nationwide have confirmed they have 
nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs P have not responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.
As I have not been provided with anything further to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
my findings as set out in my provisional decision and it follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint for the same reasons. I have set out below my findings from my provisional 
decision and they form part of my final decision.
First of all Ive checked if Mrs P was eligible for the policy at the time of the sale. Given Mrs 
Ps age, employment and residence at the time of the sale, I'm satisfied Mrs P would have 
been eligible.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. Ordinarily I would have looked to the 
documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have 
happened. However, unfortunately - though understandably - given the length of time since 
the sale, neither party has any actual documents from the time of the sale. What this means 
is that I have very limited information to go on in terms of how the policy was presented. 
However, Nationwide have provided us with sample documentation from both before and 
after the sale. This shows that Mr and Mrs P would have been presented with a choice about 
whether to take PPI or not as well as the level of cover they required.
In the absence of any information from Mr and Mrs P as to how the policy was presented to 
them - and given that choices appear to have been made as to who should be covered 
under the policy and what the cover should be for  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P 
were aware PPI was optional and chose to take PPI out. Nationwide have also provided us 
with a quotation prepared for Mrs P from the time of the sale which supports my provisional 
finding that Mr and Mrs P made certain choices  such as the level of cover and who should 
be covered under the policy.
So based on the limited information that is available to me, I cant say its more likely that Mr 
and Mrs P didnt choose to take PPI or that it was added without their consent.
Nationwide say they didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs P. And I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest otherwise. This means Nationwide didnt have to take steps to check 
the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P. So, for example, they didnt have to take into account 
Mr and Mrs Ps existing repayment provisions or whether the policy was affordable for Mr 
and Mrs P or how the policy benefit should be split. It would have been for Mr and Mrs P to 
decide whether the policy was right for them in their particular circumstances. 
But Nationwide did have to provide Mr and Mrs P with clear information so that they could 
make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have 
drawn Mr and Mrs Ps attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policy.
Its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs P this information as clearly as they should 
have. But this in itself doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking PPI. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this because:
The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ps sick pay and would have been 
particularly useful when Mrs Ps sick pay reduced to half. It would also have paid out 
in addition to any redundancy pay Mrs P may have been entitled to.
Mrs P doesnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the 
policy. For example, terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI itself was unaffordable 
for Mr and Mrs P.Mr and Mrs P could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr and Mrs 
P this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman