DRN-3971519
The complaint
Mr M complains about the amount he's been charged by Ald Automotive Limited, trading as 
Kia Contract Hire, for the damage to a car that he returned at the end of his hire agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won't repeat them here. The 
facts are not in dispute, so I'll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but having done so I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
It's not disputed that there are damages to the vehicle. Mr M doesn't agree that he is 
responsible for three itemised damages that have occurred on the inside of the 
doors, the door shuts, totalling £465.
The car was supplied to Mr M under a hire agreement with Ald Automotive which 
said: the customer at its own expense agrees to
omaintain the bodywork and the exterior and interior of the vehicle in good 
condition, having regard to the age and mileage of the vehicle. In assessing 
appropriate vehicle condition with regard to age and mileage, Kia contract 
hire will use the criteria set out in the definition of Fair Wear and Tear;
othe state of repair of the vehicle is to be consistent with its age and mileage 
assuming good treatment and allowing for Fair Wear and Tear.
othe customer will pay Kia contract hire all sums necessary to restore the 
vehicle to roadworthy in good condition satisfactory to Kia contract hire, which 
shall include without limitation rectifying body, wheel and windscreen damage 
I've seen photos of the damage to the door shuts provided in the report completed 
when Mr M returned the car. I'm satisfied the damages require repair and fall outside 
of the industry standard Fair Wear and Tear guidelines - The British Vehicle Rental & 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
Mr M has said the damage to the paintwork on the inside door shuts was not due to 
wear and tear but specifically because the seatbelt failed to retract fully. He said that 
meant when the door closed sometimes the seatbelt would be in contact with the 
door shuts, causing damage to the paintwork. Mr M said this was unavoidable and 
not related to maintenance of the car. 
In its final decision Ald said if Mr M suspected the damage had been caused by a 
manufacturer fault this would have needed to have been addressed directly with the 
manufacturer during the contract lease. And any repair work should have been 
carried out under manufacturer warranty or written confirmation from the 
manufacturer received confirming the damage was because of faulty design. 
While I'm not disputing Mr M when he says that the damage to the paintwork on the 
inside door shuts wasn't due to wear and tear, if he suspected there was a 
manufacturer fault he should have raised this when he discovered the problem.
Mr M said there was no specific guidance provided telling him to check the door 
shuts prior to returning the car, making it very difficult to anticipate that he would face 
such charges. 
Mr M said there was no possibility that this damage could have been anticipated 
which would have allowed him to contact the manufacturer to formally investigate 
why the seatbelt at times would not retract fully. He said seatbelt maintenance is not 
part of the usual car maintenance expected of an owner. Mr M said he wasnt aware 
that the door shuts required inspection as it is not a visible part of the car. He said the 
definition of external body work was not explicitly stated to include the inside door 
shuts on any of the material that he received in advance of the final inspection. He 
said the door shuts are hidden. And if it does require inspection, he said specific 
reference should be made to this in the period leading up to the return of the car. Mr 
M said had he known he would have done so and raised the concerns about the 
seatbelt not retracting.
I consider that the door shuts aren't hidden as they are visible when the doors are 
open. Mr M was required to maintain the bodywork and the exterior and interior of the 
vehicle in good condition as per the terms and conditions of his agreement
The BVRLA guidelines are industry standard and do cover damage to the door 
aperture. In the 2019 and 2022 guidelines scratches on treads, sills and seals that 
reflect normal use are acceptable. But from the photos it appears these damages 
don't reflect normal use but, as Mr M has said, are due to the seatbelt not retracting. 
Im satisfied that during the period Mr M had the car he ought reasonably to have 
been aware that the seatbelt would not retract fully and seen the build-up of the 
damage caused by it and contacted the manufacturer.
Mr M noted that other owners of the same model of car had been complaining about 
this issue online. I'm not disputing this, but my role is to look at the individual 
circumstances of this complaint only.
I'm satisfied the damages require repair and the charges were applied fairly in line 
with the industry standard BVRLAs fair wear and tear guidelines. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman