DRN-3660795
The complaint
Ms P and Mr T are unhappy with the way in which U K Insurance Limited settled a claim on 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020 Ms P and Mr T were travelling to a country Ill refer to as S. They were 
travelling via another country Ill refer to as D. They arrived in D and were told that S was no 
longer accepting passengers from the UK due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Ms P 
and Mr T booked a flight back to the UK. So, they didnt use their outbound flight from D to S 
or their inbound flights from S to D and D to the UK. They claimed for the cost of their 
additional flights and their unused flights.
UKI agreed there was an insured event and paid the additional flight costs. They didnt pay 
the unused costs because they said Ms P and Mr T had amended their flights and used the 
money towards the new flight home. So, they said that theyd benefit if the cost of the 
unused flights was paid on top of the additional costs. Ms P and Mr T complained to UKI. In 
their final response letter UKI maintained their decision not to pay the unused costs but paid 
£175 for the poor service Ms P and Mr T received. Unhappy, Ms P and Mr T asked our 
service to look into their complaint. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She didnt think 
UKIs settlement of the claim was fair. She thought that they should refund 50% of the cost 
of the unused flights and pay 8% simple interest. But, she thought the £175 compensation 
fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms P and Mr T by the poor handling 
of their claim. 
UKI responded with a detailed breakdown of the flight distances and costs. They said that 
the unused flights represented 37% of the total distance between the UK and S. So, they 
proposed issuing a refund of 37% of the total cost of the booking, which was £1, 727.90. 
The investigator thought this was a fair offer. Ms P and Mr T didnt agree. They said that the 
total cost of the flights was approximately £4800 and theyd paid around £800 towards the 
new flight home. They felt that the policy should cover their increased costs and said that the 
insurer was failing to understand that the extra costs arising from an insured event were 
covered by the policy. They said that the only way to accurately look at this loss was to take 
the funds for the whole trip, deduct the cost of the trip to D and pay the balance up to £4800 
having deducted the £800 settlement that the insurers had paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
In this case UKI has acknowledged the claim wasnt handled as well as it could have been. 
And its not disputed that there was an insured event as Ms P and Mr Ts trip was cut short 
for a reason thats covered by their insurance policy. Since our investigator issued her 
opinion, UKI has offered to pay an increased settlement. So, the key issues for me to decide 
is whether the increased settlement figure is fair and if UKI has offered enough 
compensation for the errors in its claim handling. 
I think the increased settlement figure is fair and that UKI has offered enough compensation 
because: 
Based on the evidence thats available I think its most likely that Ms P and Mr Ts 
original inbound flight from D to the UK was amended by the airline, so they were 
able to return home early. There was a shortfall to pay and UKI has paid the 
additional costs Ms P and Mr T incurred. This was £440 per person, minus the £75 
excess. So UKI has covered the costs of the additional flight from D to the UK. 
Ms P and Mr T benefitted from the original flight they booked from D to the UK 
because they used the cost of that flight towards the additional flight home when they 
amended it. So, I cant fairly conclude they should get that money back as they 
benefitted from it and UKI has paid the additional costs. 
I think UKIs more recent calculation is the fairest way to settle the complaint. It 
reflects that the distance between D and S was 37% of the total journey Ms P and 
Mr T were making. Theyve therefore offered to pay 37% of the total cost of the 
booking. I think thats a fair and reasonable settlement in the circumstances.  
UKI accepts that there were numerous issues when Ms P and Mr T made their claim. 
Its acknowledged that there were avoidable delays and that a decision could have 
been on the claim much sooner. I think the offer of £175 fairly reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Ms P and Mr T by having to chase up UKI and for the 
delay in settling their claim.
Putting things right
UKI needs to put things right by paying 37% of the total cost of the flights plus 8% simple 
interest from the date that the claim was declined to the date of settlement. 
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms P and Mr T how much its taken off. UKI should also give them a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
UKI has already paid Ms P and Mr T £175 compensation.  
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint about U K Insurance Limited to the extent Ive outlined above 
and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman