DRN-3922416
The complaint
Mr B complains about a catalogue account with J D Williams & Company Limited, that was 
opened using some of his personal details.
What happened
In November 2020, an account was opened with JD Williams in Mr Bs name. However, the 
person who opened the account used Mr Bs previous address details and a date of birth, 
which is different to Mr Bs. 
A few months later, Mr B was trying to arrange a mortgage with a lender. During those 
arrangements, the lender told Mr B about an entry on his credit file with JD Williams. The 
lender suggested that Mr B should correct the entry, before any mortgage deal could go 
ahead. So, Mr B complained firstly to a credit reference agency and then to JD Williams. 
Initially, JD Williams couldnt find the catalogue account. After further prompting by Mr B, JD 
Williams investigated his concerns. And a couple of weeks later, JD Williams closed the 
account, wrote the balance off and removed the entry from Mr Bs credit file. 
Mr B was unaware of the action taken by JD Williams, so he made a complaint. He said the 
incorrect entry on his credit file meant he was stopped from applying for a mortgage. He said 
he had to make other arrangements, which had caused significant upheaval and 
inconvenience, for him and members of his family. 
JD Williams didnt offer to do anything further than they already had. So, Mr B brought his 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs case and found that 
Mr B chose to stop his mortgage application, rather than the entry causing it to be declined. 
The investigator concluded that JD Williams wasnt responsible for the mortgage not going 
ahead, but she agreed they could have told Mr B what was happening sooner. So, the 
investigator asked JD Williams to pay Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The investigator also asked JD Williams to send a letter to Mr B confirming the account was 
opened without his authority, should he need it in the future. 
JD Williams accepted the investigators conclusions, but Mr B didnt. He said he chose not to 
go ahead with the mortgage application to avoid any embarrassment. He also said the 
wording of JD Williamss letter was inadequate and he should be awarded more 
compensation. The investigator didnt change her findings and now Mr Bs case has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
I sent Mr B and JD Williams my provisional decision on this case, on 9 January 2023. I 
explained why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is 
included below:
Firstly, Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has 
been provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is at the heart of the matter here. Namely: did JD Williams treat 
Mr B fairly when he told them he didnt authorise the opening of the catalogue account? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
The catalogue account 
Throughout his complaint to JD Williams, Mr B has said that a third party opened the 
catalogue account using his name, but with an incorrect address and date of birth. I can see 
where Mr B was told this in a letter from a mortgage provider in February 2021. After first 
raising this with a credit reference agency, I can see that Mr B contacted JD Williams on 31 
March 2021 to tell them what had happened. 
Although we dont have a copy of the signed application details used in the opening of the 
account, JD Williams have sent us a copy of their internal records. These records show that 
they accepted the account was opened fraudulently on 12 April 2021 and took action to put 
things right. 
I empathise with the circumstances Mr B found himself in. I think its reasonable to want to 
know how a third party could have used incorrect details to open a credit facility in his name. 
But, our role is to look at what JD Williams did once they were made aware of the fraud. And 
as JD Williams have agreed that the account was opened fraudulently, I dont think its 
necessary for me to consider the details, or the process they used to open the catalogue 
account. 
The records from JD Williams show that once their investigation was completed, they closed 
the catalogue account and wrote off the debit balance. I can see that they also arranged for 
any connection to the account to be removed from the information held with credit reference 
agencies. 
Overall, I think JD Williams took the action to put things rights within two weeks of Mr B first 
raising it with them. I accept that within those two weeks, its likely Mr B was extremely 
worried about what had happened. But, given the level of investigation needed, I think JD 
Williams took the necessary steps in a reasonable amount of time. So, I think they treated 
Mr B fairly in closing the account, once they became aware of Mr Bs concerns. 
Distress and inconvenience 
When the catalogue account was opened, Mr B and his family were making significant 
changes to their personal circumstances. Mr B has sent us a very detailed description of 
what was happening and the distress he had experienced. So, I understand why it was 
important to him to be able to carry out his plans. 
I can see from what Mr B has told us, that on receiving news about the catalogue account 
from the mortgage lender in February 2021, he decided not to proceed with an application. 
And he says this led him to alter his plans, causing him a financial loss. But, I can also see 
that Mr B made that decision, before JD Williams were aware of his concerns. I say this 
because Mr B contacted JD Williams at the end of March 2021. 
Mr B says he chose not to continue with the mortgage application to prevent any 
embarrassment, should the application be declined. While I acknowledge Mr Bs reasons for 
taking that step, Im not persuaded it would be fair to place any responsibility of the 
mortgage not going ahead, onto JD Williams. So, I dont think JD Williams needs to pay compensation to Mr B for the loss he says he suffered when he changed his plans. 
Nonetheless, I can see from the communication between Mr B and JD Williams where more 
could have been done to be clearer about what had happened. In June 2022, JD Williams 
sent an email to Mr B, for him to use should another lender raise concerns about the 
catalogue account in the future. I think this was a positive step by JD Williams, but I agree 
with Mr B in that it may have been more useful when his concerns were raised in March 
2021. 
Overall, I think JD Williams caused Mr B distress and inconvenience by not making it clear 
that the account was opened fraudulently. And I dont think they engaged enough with Mr B, 
to help with the changes he was making with his personal circumstances. So, I think its fair 
that JD Williams makes a payment to Mr B to reflect that. 
More recently Mr B has sent us details of an entry about the catalogue account which 
appears with a credit reference agency. JD Williams say that they have removed any such 
entry from the credit reference agencies they use. I think this has caused further worry and 
distress to Mr B. JD Williams has now offered to increase their award to Mr B to £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him. Having considered everything, I think JD 
Williamss revised offer is fair.
Mr B responded to the provisional decision and in summary, he said:
- he was given contradictory information in two telephone calls he had with JD 
Williams and had that not been the case, his mortgage application may have gone 
ahead;
- he needed to chase JD Williams and the credit reference agency, but didnt feel 
anyone was taking responsibility;
- he hadnt seen any evidence to show that JD Williams had closed the account within 
two weeks of being made aware of his concerns; and
- hes still feeling the impact of JD Williamss error as the account hasnt been 
removed from the records held with all credit reference agencies.
JD Williams responded to the provisional decision and accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has reiterated that had JD Williams engaged more with him in April 2021, he could 
have continued with his mortgage application. But, he says JD Williams couldnt find the 
account and in a follow up call, was unable to address the matter there and then. Ive 
listened to the call recordings that Mr B has provided and I agree that JD Williams could 
have given him more reassurance, particularly in the first call. But, by this point I still think 
that Mr B had decided to look at another option. Albeit a much more inconvenient way of 
dealing with the changes he was making with his personal circumstances. 
JD Williams have explained to us that they took action to review Mr Bs concerns and closed 
the account on 12 April 2021. Im not aware of any correspondence from JD Williams in 
pursuit of any arrears after this point. And JD Williams have provided us with their internal 
records to show where they raised an instruction to delete the account from the information held with credit reference agencies.
I also think the two week timeframe was reasonable for JD Williams to have completed their 
investigation into the fraudulent account. So, Im still persuaded that JD Williams treated 
Mr B fairly, once he had made contact with them.
I acknowledge that Mr B says his credit score at the time was favourable. Indeed, the credit 
report details generated by Mr B in February 2021 supports this. But, as Mr B had already 
decided not to proceed with or restart the mortgage application, I dont think it would be fair 
to hold JD Williams responsible for the loss he says he suffered as a result. 
Overall, I acknowledge what Mr B says about the inconvenience JD Williamss actions have 
caused and the reasons why the award should be increased. However, having thought about 
what Mr B went on to do and where I think JD Williams should have been clearer with him, I 
still think a payment of £300 is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Im aware that Mr B says he still finds that the account with JD Williams appears on reports 
by a specific credit reference agency. Ive passed on the evidence Mr B has provided to JD 
Williams, so they can follow through with their settlement, directly with that organisation. So, 
I think its fair that they make sure that the records for the account are removed from all 
credit reference agencies.
Putting things right
For these reasons J D Williams & Company Limited should:
1. remove the account from the records held with credit reference agencies; and
2. pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require J D Williams & Company Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman