DRN-3618696
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt reimbursed him after 
he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Around November 2021 Mr A was looking to sell a fridge. His daughter was handling this 
arrangement for him and says she was contacted by someone online who said they wanted 
to buy it but they would only send the payment by Paypal. Mr As daughter opened an 
account. Shortly after this she received an email from the scammer, posing as Paypal, 
informing her she needed to pay three separate payments equalling £1,600 to different 
accounts to release the money the buyer had sent her.
Mr As daughter made the payments to the scammer. Mr A has explained his daughter 
generally handles financial matters for him and has authority to use his card in general. But, 
she didnt tell him about these specific payments until the day after they were made.
When Mr A found out about the payments he recognised the situation as a scam. He 
contacted NatWest which, as a gesture of goodwill, reimbursed him for £795 of his loss. Mr 
A was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service to consider. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They felt NatWest had done more than we wouldve 
recommended in this case.
Mr A didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. 
Ive considered the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code), which NatWest has committed to follow and was in force at the time Mr As 
daughter, on behalf of Mr A, made the payment to the scammer. Under the Code, the 
starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam where (amongst other things), The Customer 
transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate purposes but 
were in fact fraudulent.
But the Code also says, An authorised push payment will include where, as part of giving 
consent for a specific payment, a Customer shares access to their personal security 
credentials or allows access to their banking systems such as online platforms or banking 
apps for that payment to be made.
So, for me to say the payment that Mr As daughter made on his behalf are covered by the 
code, I need to be satisfied Mr A gave consent for the specific payments to be made. As hes 
confirmed he didnt know about the payments until after they were made its clear Mr A didnt 
give consent for these specific payments. So theyre not covered by the code, and I wont be 
taking it into account in this case.
I think Mr A had given his daughter general permission to use his account. So Im satisfied 
under the Payment Services Regulations  which are separate to the CRM code Ive 
mentioned above - and the terms and conditions of his account NatWest was expected to 
process the payment as instructed.
But I also think it ought to have systems in place to monitor accounts and look for unusual 
transactions or other signs its customer might be at risk of fraud. And where a risk is 
identified it might be appropriate for NatWest to take additional steps, make additional 
checks or decline to make a payment altogether in order to protect its customer.
Ive considered the three payments that formed part of this scam. On 29 November 2021 
three payments left Mr As account for £300, £800 and £500. They seem to have been made 
to two separate accounts. Considering Mr As general account use in the months leading up 
to the scam I can see Mr A makes regular payments of these amounts, and higher. He has 
also on numerous occasions made payments that are greater in value than the three 
payments combined. So I dont think the value of the payments ought to have seemed 
significantly unusual to NatWest or that it ought to have intervened before they were made.
Ive also considered whether all three payments being made in the same day ought to have 
alerted NatWest to a problem. But there are occasions where Mr A has made more than one 
transaction of over the individual amounts linked to the scam in one day. And the timings of 
the payments werent so close together Id expect NatWest to have been concerned. And, as 
Ive mentioned, the payments were sent to two separate accounts. So they werent all made 
to the same beneficiary in quick succession.
Overall, I think the payments made to scammers were broadly in line with Mr As general 
account use. So I dont think it ought to have recognised a scam risk or intervened. As I dont 
think it missed an opportunity to prevent the scam, I dont think its liable for Mr As loss. This 
means the money it has already repaid to Mr A is more than I wouldve recommended in this 
case and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
After the scam was reported to NatWest it did what I would expect in contacting the 
beneficiarys banks to report the scam and request the return of the funds. In the case of one 
of the banks it responded and confirmed only £10 could be recovered which was returned to 
Mr As account. In the case of the other bank no funds could be recovered. Overall, NatWest 
has done what I wouldve expected in trying to recall the funds.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Faye BrownhillOmbudsman