DRN-2610343
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Phoenix Life Limited. He is concerned that the value of his
personal pension decreased by over £4,000 in November 2018.
What happened
Mr A held a personal pension with Phoenix, he has now transferred the plan to another
provider. However, he and his financial advisor had asked Phoenix why there was a drop
in the plan value at the time the transfer was made.
Phoenix have given an explanation and made an offer to Mr A, but he asked this service to
consider the issues.
Phoenix had said that Mr As plan was set up with a normal retirement date (NRD) of his
60th birthday which fell in 2011. This was deferred to July 2013. Phoenix then wrote to Mr A
three times in 2013 asking what he wanted to do with the pension. It says there was no
response.
Given there was no response, Phoenix says that it applied a default option and used the
value of the plan (£9,841.61) to purchase an annuity. It also set up a holding account to
receive the annuity payments from July 2013 to November 2018.
Mr A contacted Phoenix in June 2018 apparently unaware of what had happened with his
pension. Phoenix agreed to reverse the annuity and send a new retirement pack. This
should have taken no more than 30 days, but it didnt happen until November 2018. It
accepts that this took too long.
Phoenix sent Mr A several statements on 14 November 2018, which said the value of his
plan as of November 2017 was just over £14,000.00. However, a few days later Phoenix
sent another letter confirming a fund switch had been completed, and this included the
correct, current value of £9,063.
Mr A questioned this apparent drop in value. Phoenix says that the higher value was
incorrect. This higher value was based on an incorrect calculation after the annuity was
reversed. The higher value was based on notional investment growth from the fund Mr A had
been invested in, a managed fund, and not the fund he would have been invested in, a
guaranteed fund. It explained that it was its policy to switch investments to more secure
investments if the NRD passed without it knowing what the pension holder wanted to do.
Phoenix accepted that it had delayed the transfer and made an offer to reflect the loss of
investment growth because of the delay. It also offered £200 for any distress caused.
The investigator decided this offer was fair. He was satisfied that the correct fund value had
been calculated. The plan was never worth over £14,000. He felt that Phoenix was acting
reasonably by using a more secure fund to assess the value after the NRD. So, he didnt
think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that although he wasnt questioning the existence of the
correspondence Phoenix had identified in 2013, he had been working abroad between 2011
and 2015. He recalled providing a new correspondence address around 2013. His concern
was that his pension worth £9,841.61 in 2013 and left untouched should be worth only 
£9,457.43 in November 2018. The value of over £14,000 should be more accurate. He also 
had a P60 from 2017 referring to income he hadnt received.
The investigator responded and said that Phoenix had confirmed that it had no record of a
change of address from Mr A in or around 2013. The income payment related to the annuity
income which had been paid into the holding account.
Mr A questioned the status of the holding account and the investigator explained that this
was set up to receive the annuity payments the annuity would have generated for Mr A, but
these were held in that account and not paid to him.
Mr A also questioned an apparent discrepancy between the value used to buy the annuity
and the lower transfer value.
The investigator didnt change his view and the case was referred to me for a final decision.
Further questions were put to Phoenix about the transfer value. It carried out some further
investigation which led it to discover that there had been an error in its calculations.
Essentially, Phoenix said that the fund value had been £9,841.61 when the policy moved to
an annuity in 2013, but when it was switched back the effective date used was July 2011
which meant that two years growth was lost. This growth together with bonus units that
should have been added meant that the transfer value should have been £10,175.62 and not
£9,475.28.
Phoenix agreed to make a further payment of the difference and confirmed that it wished to
approach the current plan holder so that it could assess any loss of investment growth on
the shortfall which it will also pay to Mr A. 
I made a provisional decision. My provisional findings were:
Subject to Phoenix paying Mr A the shortfall in the transfer value and compensating him for
any loss of investment growth, I agree that its offer is fair. It has offered £200 for the trouble
and upset caused by is delays and Im not currently minded to make any further award.
I do note Mr As recollection, but beyond that there is no evidence that Phoenix was
informed of his change of address in or around 2013. The correspondence it sent in 2013
went unanswered and in that circumstance, I dont think it had any choice other than to set
up the annuity as it did. A holding account was set up to receive the annuity payments.
When Mr A got in touch in 2018 Phoenix agreed to undo the annuity. I dont think it was 
actually under any obligation to do that, but it agreed to. So, the annuity was undone, and
calculations made to determine what the policy would have been worth if it had remained
invested instead. It seems the initial calculations made were wrong as these used for
comparison the growth from the managed fund Mr A had been invested in, rather than the
guaranteed fund which should have been used for comparison. I dont think Phoenix was
acting unfairly in using the guaranteed fund as a comparator to assess the notional value,
plans like these would typically be switched to lower risk investments close to the NRD.
However, this led to Mr A being told a higher pension value.
Im satisfied that the higher values quoted, over £14,000, were mistaken. I dont think these
values represented the likely value of the pension plan if it had remained invested.However, Mr A has continued to point to the actual transfer value being lower than the 2013
value. Phoenix has now accepted that additional errors were made in its actuarial
calculations when it tried to calculate the notional vale of the plan as if it had not been
converted to an annuity. It has agreed that the plan should have had a higher value, as Mr A
suspected, and agreed to pay the shortfall. It has also agreed to calculate and pay any lost
investment growth on the shortfall.
Overall, I think this would be a fair resolution. It should also pay Mr A £200 for his trouble
and upset if it hasnt already done so.
Phoenix accepted the provisional decision and said it would make the calculations of 
additional loss.
Mr A didnt agree. He said, in summary:
He now knows that he wasnt working overseas in 2013 when Phoenix says it wrote 
to him four times. He would have picked up any letters sent in 2013.
In relation to the annuity, Mr A asks where is the evidence of the annuity purchased, 
what were the terms of this annuity including the anticipated income rates?
Where is the evidence and statements for the holding account that was set up to 
receive the income?
There has been no answer about the P60 Mr A received in April 2017 detailing a 
pension payment and a tax deduction. He presumes this was added to his fund? And 
asks where are the P60s and income for the other years?
The answers hes received about the annuity suggest it served no purpose at all.
Mr A questions the annual management charges.
Mr A also says that his funds would have seen greater growth if they had been 
invested on the High Street in 2013.
Ive reconsidered the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Phoenix has accepted my provisional decision and agreed to calculate and pay 
the further losses due.
Im sorry that Mr A doesnt feel hes had answers to all his questions. My role is to make a 
decision on his complaint, and thats what Ive tried to do. Ive tried to focus on the issues 
that are central to the outcome of the complaint and, unfortunately, that can sometimes 
mean that some questions will go unanswered, either because they dont impact directly on 
the outcome, or because they cannot be answered with any certainty years after the events 
took place. I must determine some issues based on what is most likely to have happened. I 
note in this respect that Mr As own recollection of some events has changed during the 
course of the investigation of the complaint.
I cant know with certainty whether Phoenix wrote to Mr A in 2013. It says that it did, and the 
records that it holds support that. And it would have been expected to write to him. Its 
possible that it made a mistake and didnt write to him, but I think its more likely that it did 
send the letters and that they were probably received by Mr A. I note that Mr As recollection 
of this period has changed, and I dont think I can rely only upon his personal recollection at 
this stage.There is no reason to doubt that an annuity was arranged as Phoenix says. The annuity is 
evidenced by the P60 Mr A refers to. I dont think the precise terms of the annuity have any 
direct bearing on my decision as the annuity was unwound at Mr As request. The same 
applies to any evidence of the holding account and any other P60s, these arent relevant to 
the outcome of the complaint as the holding account was only set up to receive the annuity 
payments which are evidenced by the P60, and these payments were then unwound as if 
they had never been made in the first place.
The income from the annuity wasnt added to the fund. The annuity replaced the fund as it 
was purchased by it. The fund didnt exist alongside the annuity.
Mr A suggests the annuity served no purpose. There is some weight to what he says, it did 
serve a purpose as it was used as the default option for the pension at his retirement date, 
but it was then unwound later at his request. Unwinding the annuity should have put Mr A in 
the position he would have been in if the annuity had never existed. Thats effectively what 
Phoenix is trying to calculate now.
Phoenix was managing Mr As funds and so it was entitled to make management charges. 
Im sorry that Mr A is disappointed with the investment performance, but that is a subjective 
issue and this service doesnt consider complaints that relate solely to investment 
performance.
Im sorry if Ive been unable to answer all Mr As questions. I do uphold his complaint and I 
agree with him that the fund value he was paid was too low. Phoenix must correct that.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Phoenix Life Limited. Phoenix must pay Mr A the shortfall in his 
pension transfer value together with any loss of investment growth. It has already paid him 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman