DRN-2376015
The complaint
Mr P complains about a car purchased using his credit card account. The complaint is
brought against Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) under Section 75 of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
Mr P raised a Section 75 claim against Capital One for breach of contract and 
misrepresentation with respect to a car purchase. Part of the purchase price was paid using 
the additional card assigned to Mr Ps wife on Mr Ps Capital One credit card account in 
January 2018. 
Capital One refused to uphold Mr Ps complaint. In summary, they said there was no valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship for a Section 75 claim. 
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld, because she was of the opinion 
that there wasnt a valid debtor-creditor-supplier link for a valid Section 75 claim. This is 
because she said it was Mr Ps wife that had been the contracting party and had purchased 
the car and she wasnt Capital Ones customer.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator. In summary, he thinks that there should be a valid 
Section 75 claim because he says that he bought the car together with his wife, he was the 
one dealing with the dealership, and his wife is a second (or additional) card holder on his 
Capital One card. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
The general effect of Section 75 makes the provider of credit (Capital One in this case) 
jointly and severally liable where there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract 
by the supplier of goods or services financed by the credit, provided certain conditions are 
met. 
One of the conditions is that there is a direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor 
and the supplier. This is sometimes referred to as a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) 
agreement, and the formal wording is set out in Section 12 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
A D-C-S agreement refers to the arrangements that need to exist between the relevant
parties in order to be able to make a Section 75 claim.
I can see that Mr P feels very strongly about this issue and I have considered his 
submissions carefully. In summary, he says he and his wife purchased the car together. The 
payments for the balance of the car purchase were made from their joint account. He says 
that he was the one dealing with the dealership during the purchase, and that his wife is the 
second (or additional) card holder on the credit card. So, he believes that because of these 
reasons this makes him a party to the contract.
It is Mr P who is considered to be the debtor because he has a credit card with Capital One; 
the creditor is Capital One because it has agreed to provide credit to Mr P; and the supplier 
is the car dealership. However, I dont think the car dealership has a direct relationship with 
Mr P for a Section 75 claim, because I think Mr Ps wife was the contracting party and not 
him. 
Although I dont doubt that Mr P has had some involvement in the process of helping with 
the car purchase, and while he might get some benefit from the car, Im not satisfied that this 
is enough to make him a contracting party for the requirements of a Section 75 claim. I say 
this due to several reasons, outlined below.
I consider it persuasive that all the sales documentation is in the name of Mr Ps wife only. 
While this is not always a sole determining factor, I think this indicates that she was the 
contracting party here. I have also carefully considered other surrounding evidence and note 
that it is Mr Ps wife who is the one that is the registered keeper of the car, and not Mr P. So, 
it would be her that would have certain rights, obligations and responsibilities as a named 
person driving the car. The number plate on the car was also changed to a personalised one 
with the initials of Mr Ps wife. I can also see that 12 months approved used warranty for the 
car was put in her name. The insurance for the car was taken out in her name as a policy 
holder, and Mr P is only listed as the additional driver. I think this supports his statement that 
she was the main driver of the car, as most likely he only uses the car occasionally. 
Im also aware that Mrs P tried to initially raise a claim through the courts for the breach of 
contract and misrepresentation, but the claim was struck out. The fact that she was named 
as the claimant and not Mr P also supports the fact that it was Mrs P, not Mr P that was the 
contracting party. Mr P has also told us that the car was bought as a gift for his wife. So, I 
think that for the purposes of Section 75 all the above evidence serves as a relevant 
indicator of who is intended to be the contracting party in this instance. Therefore, I think, 
most likely it is Mr Ps wife that is the contracting party. So, I think Mr Ps wife entered into a 
contract to purchase the car for which Mr P provided some of the funds.
I know that Mr P says that his wife was a second (or additional) card holder, but this doesnt 
make a difference. This is because a credit card cannot be taken out in joint names, even 
though potentially multiple additional card holders can be added to a single account. But 
where there are additional card holders, it is the primary card holder (here Mr P) who is 
solely responsible for all the spending on the account, and it is he (Mr P), and not any 
additional card holders, that have the contractual relationship with the credit card provider.
The D-C-S arrangement needed to exist between the debtor (Mr P), the creditor (Capital 
One), and the supplier (the car dealership). As Mr P had no contractual relationship
with the supplier (because it was his wife who entered into that contract), it seems there was 
no D-C-S arrangement in place. Also, Mrs P had no contractual relationship with Capital One 
either. So, while Mr P has my sympathy, I dont think Capital One acted unfairly in turning 
down the Section 75 claim.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman