DRN-3586367
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc turned down his claim for a refund for a purchase he 
made using his credit card.
What happened
Mr J purchased a sailing trip for his wife using his Santander credit card.
Unfortunately the trip was cut short due to global Covid-19 pandemic. Mr J was unable to get 
compensation from the supplier as it went out of business so he approached Santander.
Santander considered a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (Section 
75) but declined this. It said that there was not the correct debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement between the parties for a valid claim.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary, they said:
Mr J raised the claim too late for Santander to raise a chargeback; and
there wasnt a valid Section 75 claim because it was Mr Js wife who contracted 
with the supplier of the trip and not Mr J.
Mr J did not agree. In summary, he says the training and ocean experience his wife would 
gain on the trip would directly benefit him as it would allow her to participate in future sailing 
events with him. He also points out that as the account holder he is responsible for his wifes 
card, and the credit card is settled each month from a joint current account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear what has happened here as a result of the global pandemic. However, 
Santander is not the supplier of travel services here  so I can only consider its liability in 
respect of the specific card protections that are available. Namely, chargeback and Section 
75. I will consider each in turn.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is one way which Santander might have been able to recover funds 
for Mr J. However, Santander is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply. I have 
considered the chargeback scheme rules to decide if Santander has treated Mr J fairly.
Chargeback has strict time limits. In this case the relevant reason code covering a service 
that has not been provided required the chargeback to be raised within 120 days of the date 
the service was due to be provided. In this case the last date the service was due was April 
30 2020 and I can see here that Mr J raised his claim with Santander on 22 September 
2020. So I dont think that Santander acted unreasonably by not raising a chargeback here.,
Section 75
Section 75 can allow Mr J to hold Santander responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of goods or services 
purchased.
There are certain criteria that need to be met for Section 75 to apply, relating to the parties to 
the transaction, the way the payment was made and the price of the goods or services.
Santander has noted that there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement here for a 
valid claim. It points to the fact that the trip was for Mr Js wife and not for his benefit. Mr J 
has come back to say that the trip did benefit him and explained why.
Despite the use of the term benefit by both parties ultimately this is about whether the 
debtor has an agreement with the supplier here. While the person that receives benefit from 
a particular purchase is often the contracting party  this is not always the case.
I am satisfied that the debtor in this case is Mr J. Although it appears his wife is able to use a 
card on the account, ultimately it is Mr J who has the credit agreement with Santander and is 
the debtor. I dont think this is changed by the fact that the credit card is settled from a joint 
current account either.
I have looked at the evidence here to ultimately determine who is contracting with the 
supplier. I think in this situation it is clear that Mr Js wife is the contracting party here. She is 
the one named on the booking documentation and it is her booked to travel and participate 
in the trip alone. 
I have carefully considered if there is some kind of joint contract here. But I dont see any 
basis for that. Mr J is not the named booker and he did not travel or receive any of the 
services - he simply provided the means to pay for said booking. I think his submission in 
respect of the benefit he received from his wife attending the trip does not allow me to 
reasonably conclude that he had a contractual agreement with the supplier. Therefore, I 
dont think there is the required debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for Mr J to have a valid 
Section 75 claim in respect of the booking.
Because of the situation her Mr J does not have a like claim against Santander for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. So while I am sorry to hear about 
what has happened here I cannot fairly direct Santander to do more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman