DRN-2178754
The complaint
Ms S and Mr G complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their claim against their 
travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms S has the benefit of a travel insurance policy as part of her bank account. Mr G and their 
two children are included in the cover. 
On 25 January 2020, Ms S booked flights for her family for a trip to northern Italy, departing 
on 30 January 2020. At the outset, the plan was for a family holiday at various destinations 
in northern Italy. At the end of the holiday, Mr G and the children were to return to the UK by 
car for 17 February 2020. Ms S was to remain in northern Italy to start a new job on                 
24 February 2020. 
On 2 February 2020, one of the children became unwell with a fever and vomiting. On          
7 February 2020, Ms S and the other child became unwell with similar symptoms. They 
didnt seek medical help for their symptoms and were not tested for covid-19 (coronavirus), 
as they understood that they wouldnt be provided with a test. Mr G and the children didnt 
return to the UK by car for 17 February 2020, as planned. 
On 21 February 2020, the Italian government placed in quarantine certain towns in provinces 
near to the province in which Ms S, Mr G and their children were staying. On that date,       
Ms S, Mr G and the children travelled to the city in northern Italy where Ms S was to take up 
a new job. On 23 February 2020, Ms S learned that the face-to-face element of her new job 
was suspended until 29 February 2020. That suspension was subsequently extended. 
On 26 February 2020, Ms S doctor advised her to return to the UK. On 2 March 2020, one 
of the childrens doctors advised that he should return to the UK, avoiding all forms of public 
transport. 
On 8 March 2020, the Italian government extended the quarantine to northern provinces and 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel to a 
number of areas in northern Italy. A nationwide Italian quarantine followed on 9 March 2020. 
On 10 March 2020, the FCO advised against all but essential travel to Italy. The FCO advice 
said that British nationals could depart Italy without restriction.
On 12 March 2020, Ms S doctor advised her to stay put for now. On 13 March 2020, the 
family left Italy and drove to France. On 14 March 2020, the French government closed non-
essential public places. On 16 March 2020, the French government said that certain travel 
restrictions didnt apply to UK nationals. On 17 March 2020, the FCO advised against all but 
essential travel abroad. 
On 21 March 2020, Ms S contacted Aviva to make a claim for additional travel and 
accommodation costs. On 23 March 2020, the FCO advised all UK tourists abroad to return 
home.  
Aviva declined the claim. It relied on an exclusion in the policy which said that it doesnt 
cover business travel. It also said that Ms S trip didnt come within the definition of trip(s) 
in the policy, as it didnt begin and end in the UK and was for more than 31 days.  
Ms S, Mr G and their children stayed in France until they drove home to the UK in a hire car 
in July 2020.
Ms S and Mr G say that, initially, they didnt know that Ms S and the children may have 
covid-19 and their awareness of what was going on developed very quickly. They were 
particularly concerned, as Ms S and one of the children have health issues affecting their 
immune systems. They say that they were advised by doctors for Ms S and one of the 
children that they should leave Italy and avoid public transport or, if it wasnt possible to 
leave Italy, to self-isolate there. 
Ms S and Mr G say that they managed to rent a car and leave Italy on 13 March 2020 but 
say that they were unable to leave France, as they couldnt travel for more than 100 
kilometres and it was difficult to find places to stay. Also, Ms S says that she was still feeling 
unwell and her doctor advised that it was better to wait until it was possible to return to the 
UK without the stress of a very long drive. They found accommodation in France and 
remained there until July 2020. 
Ms S and Mr G say that travel restrictions in France were lifted in July 2020, but that they 
waited until the quarantine period was also lifted in the UK for returning nationals before they 
returned home later in July 2020.  
Ms S and Mr G want Aviva to pay their claim for additional travel and accommodation costs.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Aviva acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. In relation to Mr G and the childrens trip, the investigator said 
that the policy provides cover if the insured falls ill and its medically necessary to stay 
abroad after the intended return date, but theres no cover for choosing not to travel. She 
said that when Mr G and the children were due to return to the UK on 17 February 2020, 
there doesnt appear to be any medical reason why they couldnt have travelled as planned. 
So, she didnt think there were grounds on which to ask Aviva to pay for Mr G and the 
childrens expenses after 17 February 2020. 
In relation to Ms S trip, the investigator said that it didnt come within the definition of 
trip(s) in the policy, as it didnt begin and end in the UK and lasted more than 31 days. 
Also, Ms S trip was part business trip, which was excluded under the policy. 
Ms S didnt agree with the investigator. She said that Aviva initially said that her claim was 
covered, as it related to covid. Ms S said that medical advice wasnt readily available, and 
matters were confused at the time the family were in Italy. She said that Aviva mistakenly 
said that this was a work trip and as the investigator identified correctly that this wasnt a 
work trip, that seems to solve the problem Aviva had with her claim. 
As there was no agreement and Ms S wished to pursue the complaint, it was passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a very worrying time into a short 
narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. I trust that neither Ms S nor Mr G 
will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on the central issues. 
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. The relevant parts of which are 
as follows:
trip(s) journeys beginning and ending in the UK that last no more than 31 days that 
are either:
holidays outside the UK; []
General Exclusions
This policy does not cover the following:
[]
7. Any claim for an incident which happens during the trip that results from;
[]
i. Any claim where the purpose of your trip is Business Travel. 
[]
10. Any claim because you do not feel like travelling, or you are not enjoying your trip.
Emergency Medical Treatment and Associated Expenses
[]
If you are injured, fall ill, are quarantined or die during your trip, we will cover you, up to the 
limits shown below, for:
[]
2. Associated Expenses 
a. extra charges for half board accommodation (of a similar standard to the accommodation 
you had booked for your trip) if it is medically necessary for you to stay after the date you 
were going to return home. We will also pay travel costs, which you have to pay to get back 
to your home if you cannot use your return ticket.
[]
d. the cost of getting you home, if it is medically necessary because you are seriously 
injured or fall seriously ill during your trip and you cannot use your return ticket.
[]
Special conditions
1.You must phone the Medical Emergency Assistance helpline number before you 
make any arrangement if an illness or injury means that you:
Need to seek emergency medical advice, []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Travel insurance doesnt cover every eventuality that may arise. I appreciate that Ms S and 
Mr G were caught up in unprecedented events, but Im looking to see whether Aviva applied 
the terms and conditions of the policy correctly, fairly and reasonably. Ive looked at Ms S and Mr Gs claims separately, as their trips were different from the 
outset. Im not upholding the complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated Ms S and   
Mr G unfairly. I say that because:
Ms S claim
At the outset, Ms S trip was intended to be a holiday from 30 January 2020 to          
23 February 2020 - the day before she started her new job  and then a business trip 
from 24 February 2020 until an unspecified return date. 
I think that Aviva was right to say that her trip didnt come within the definition of 
trip(s) in the policy, which says that journeys must begin and end in the UK and last 
no more than 31 days. Ms S trip was open-ended, in that she hadnt made travel 
arrangements for her return and it wasnt a trip as defined in the policy because of the 
business travel element. 
At the outset, Ms S intention was that her trip was a business trip from                     
24 February 2020. As things turned out, Ms S travelled to her work destination on    
21 February 2020. I think Aviva acted fairly in relying on the exclusion in relation to 
business travel in relation to Ms S claim.
Mr Gs claim
Mr Gs trip was intended to be a holiday from 30 January 2020 until around              
17 February 2020. It comes within the definition of trip(s) in the policy. But thats 
not the end of the matter. 
The policy provides cover, subject to certain terms, for abandoning a trip when the 
FCO has issued an advisory notice against all but essential travel to an area or due 
to a pandemic but doesnt provide cover for extending a trip in those circumstances. 
Mr Gs claim doesnt come within the part of the policy covering emergency medical 
treatment and associated expenses. Whilst the children were both ill, Ms S and Mr G 
didnt need to seek emergency medical treatment for them. Theres no evidence that 
they tested positive for coronavirus and were required to self-isolate. 
Ive noted whats been said about why Mr G and the children didnt travel back to the 
UK as planned, but Ive seen nothing to indicate that it was medically necessary for 
Mr G to extend his trip with the children beyond 17 February 2020.  It was a further 
few weeks until Italy went into national lockdown.  
 
The medical advice dated 2 March 2020 for one of the children says that he should 
leave the high prevalence area of Italy and return to the UK, avoiding all forms of 
public transport. Mr G and the children could have done that. There was a significant 
window of opportunity for Mr G and the children to return home without resorting to 
public transport. 
I appreciate that Ms S and Mr G wanted the family to remain together, but the policy 
doesnt provide cover for disinclination to travel home as planned. 
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, there are no grounds on which to 
direct Aviva to pay Ms S and Mr Gs claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms S and Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman