DRN-2527580
The complaint
Mr H says that MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H opened a credit card account in 2007. Around the same time, he took out a PPI policy 
to protect his monthly repayments on the credit card account.
If Mr H had made a successful claim for accident or sickness on the policy, it would have 
paid 5% of the outstanding balance at the date of claim each month until that balance was 
cleared, or until he returned to work - whichever happened first. And it would have paid the 
same monthly benefit for up to 12 months per successful claim for unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, based on the evidence hed 
seen. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to MBNA on 2 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what 
I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
Mr H took out the PPI during a phone call. Based on what we know of the way MBNA 
sold these policies at the time, I thought it was unlikely that it made a personal 
recommendation to Mr H to take out the PPI, or provided him with advice about it. This 
meant that MBNA didnt have a responsibility to check that the policy was suitable for 
Mr H. But it did need to give him enough information to decide for himself whether he 
wanted to take the cover.
I didnt know what MBNA told Mr H about the PPI. But I thought it was unlikely that it 
explained the cost of the policy properly to him. For example, I didnt think it was likely 
that it explained that the premium would be added to Mr Hs credit card balance and 
could attract interest. Nor did I think it was likely that it explained the level of benefit (5% 
of the statement balance) or the fact that Mr H would have to continue paying the 
premium if he made a claim.
The information Mr H has provided to us and to MBNA about his employment 
circumstances when he took out the PPI hasnt been fully consistent. But Id borne in 
mind that this happened a long time ago.
MBNA has provided evidence from its computer records that Mr H told it he was working 
for a particular employer at the time. Mr H has consistently told us that its true that he 
was working for that employer. But he says that wasnt his main job, and that he was 
only working a couple of shifts per week for that employer. Mr H says his main job was 
with another employer. And hes provided a bank statement which I was satisfied shows 
that he received a salary payment from that employer at the end of the month when he 
took out the PPI and at the end of the following month.
I was satisfied on balance, based on the evidence that Mr H has provided, that he was, in 
fact, working for the main employer hes told us about when he took out the PPI. Mr H 
has told us hed been working there for over two years, and that hed have been entitled 
to six months full pay from that employer if hed been off sick. He says this would have 
been followed by a period of reduced pay, although hes not sure how long. I commented 
that six months full sick pay sounds a little higher than wed typically see for people 
working in similar roles. But even if Mr H wasnt entitled to as much sick pay as he 
remembers, I thought it was likely that hed have been entitled to at least three months 
full sick pay from his main employer at the time.
Bearing in mind the level of sick pay which I accepted it was likely Mr H was entitled to, 
I didnt think hed have considered the policy worth taking out if hed been provided with 
clear enough information about its cost and potential benefits.
In addition to the lack of clarity about the cost and benefit of the policy, I had some other 
areas of concern about the sale.
 I thought it was unlikely that MBNA gave Mr H clear enough information about the 
main things the policy didnt cover. Mr H has told us he had a long-term health 
condition at the time of sale. The condition was controlled by medication. But its a 
condition that can sometimes lead to other symptoms and conditions. And Mr H may 
not have been able to if hed been off work sick with any condition or symptoms 
which were related to his long-term condition.
 It was also apparent, both from what Mr H says, and from MBNAs records, that he 
was doing some work for another employer, in addition to the employer which Id 
explained that I accepted was his main employer at the time. To make a successful 
unemployment claim on the policy, Mr H would have had to be entirely without work. 
I thought it was unlikely that hed have lost both jobs at once. But the loss of either of 
his jobs would have resulted in a significant reduction in his income. So I thought 
there was a real risk that the policy wouldnt have been there for him when he 
needed it.
The fact that I wasnt convinced that Mr H would have thought it worth taking out the PPI 
if hed been given clearer information about the cost was enough, in itself, for me to 
consider that the complaint should be upheld. But these additional concerns reinforced 
my view that it was unlikely that Mr H would have taken the PPI if hed been given clear 
enough information about it.
So based on what Id seen so far, I thought the complaint should be held. And my 
provisional decision was that MBNA should put things right by doing as Ive set out 
below.
Further submissions
Mr H has told us hes happy with my provisional decision. MBNA hasnt provided any further 
comments or evidence, and the time for doing so has now expired.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
MBNA should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. MBNA should find out how much Mr H would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it. It should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest 
charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by 
the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
B. MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mr H owes and what he would 
have owed. If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. It can also take off any 
commission and profit share it has already paid him back.
C.If  when MBNA works out what Mr H would have owed each month without PPI  he 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr H 
would have owed MBNA something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. MBNA should tell Mr H what its done to work out A, B and C.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require MBNA Limited to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman