DRN-2906006
The complaint
Mr H complains through his representative, that he received unsuitable advice from 
Sesame Limited (Sesame) to transfer out of his occupational pension scheme into a 
personal pension.
When reference is made to Sesame, this includes any appointed representatives or 
intermediary they used in connection with this matter.
What happened
In 1993, Mr H was advised to transfer out of his occupational pension, into a personal 
pension with Sesame. As part of an industry wide Pension Review, Sesame carried out a 
review in the Summer of 1998. They found that Mr H had not been given unsuitable advice 
in 1993. 
Mr H disagreed and shared his thoughts with Sesame. It doesnt look like Sesame 
responded to this at the time. 
In December 1999, Sesame wrote to Mr H. They explained that they wanted to make sure 
theyd made the right decision in 1998. They gave him the opportunity to have his case re-
opened. Mr H provided the information requested. And in February 2000, Sesame wrote to 
him explaining their findings. 
Sesame said theyd carried out their 1998 review in line with the guidance issued by the 
regulators at the time  the Securities & Investments Board (SIB) and the Personal 
Investment Authority Ombudsman Bureau (PIA). And they found Mr H had not suffered any 
financial loss but had actually benefited from the transfer. As his benefits had exceeded what 
would have been available to him, if he had remained in his occupational pension scheme. 
Mr H rejected these findings and contacted the PIA in March 2001. PIA consequently wrote 
to Sesame in May 2001. They asked that Sesame confirm to Mr H that they were 
investigating his complaint. And that this was being done in accordance with the complaints 
procedure laid down by the regulator. In July 2001, Sesame informed the PIA that theyd 
previously looked into this complaint in 1998 and then again in 2000. And on both occasions 
found Mr H hadnt suffered any loss. 
Mr H doesnt recall receiving an outcome letter from the PIA. And neither Sesame nor Mr H 
have copies of an outcome letter issued by them. Its therefore not clear whether the PIA 
investigated this complaint further and issued their findings.
In February 2020, Mr H then raised a complaint with Sesame. Sesame explained the matter 
had already been considered. It had been reviewed in 1998 and again in 2000. And following 
them having shared their findings with the PIA in 2001, they wouldnt be looking into the 
matter again. Unhappy with this, Mr H then brought his complaint to us in March 2020. 
Our investigator concluded that the review carried out showed Mr H hadnt suffered any 
financial loss. And they hadnt seen any persuasive evidence that showed the loss 
calculations carried out by Sesame, werent performed in line with the guidance provided by 
the regulators at the time. They explained that they were satisfied Sesame had carried out 
the review they were required to. Our investigator also explained that the review carried out 
was part of an industry wide pension review, that was designed to be a definitive process.  
And so, they wouldnt be asking Sesame to do anything further. 
Mr H disagreed. He explained that he didnt feel there was any evidence that showed 
Sesame carried out a loss calculation. Our investigator provided to Mr H, copies of the loss 
calculations Sesame provided. Mr H then stated he wasnt happy that Sesame didnt reopen 
the complaint on the back of the PIAs instruction. This has therefore been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not agree that the PIA asked Sesame to re-open the complaint. They asked Sesame to:
 confirm to Mr H that [they] are investigating the matter under the complaints procedures 
laid down by your Regulator.
If you have already done so, please contact Mr H with the date of the Senior Management 
Decisions Letter and send another copy. 
Sesame shared their findings of their second assessment in February 2000. Having read the 
content of this letter, I am satisfied that this is their version of the Senior Management 
Decisions Letter. Sesame had therefore already issued this letter to Mr H, they only needed 
to send it to him again. There was no requirement for Sesame to re-open the case and 
carryout a third assessment.
The main issue here is with reference to the advice Mr H received in 1993. Mr H doesnt 
believe the potential risks associated with transferring out of his occupational pension, and 
into a personal pension, were fully explained to him.  
As part of the industry wide review that took place at the time. The advice given in 1993 to 
transfer, was reviewed by Sesame in 1998. And having seen a copy of the Pension Review 
outcome letter and accompanying transfer calculations, I am satisfied that the review was in 
line with the guidance provided by the regulators at the time. The expectation was that after 
the review was conducted, Sesame would have sent Mr H an outcome letter detailing next 
steps. Which they did. And Mr H clearly received this letter, as he responded to it at the time. 
The outcome letter explained that after the investigation, theyd found he hadnt received 
unsuitable advice. 
In 2000, Sesame carried out another assessment and found Mr H hadnt suffered a loss. 
The outcome letter and accompanying loss assessment (including pensions transfer review 
analysis document), show Sesame used the parameters provided by the regulator at the 
time. 
I cannot therefore see anything to suggest Sesame failed to carry out the review in line with 
the expectation of the then regulator. And their subsequent assessment in 2000 also 
confirmed theyd met the regulators requirements. The pension review process was the 
correct method to assess the advice Mr H received, and whether he suffered any financial 
loss. Sesame carried out the pension review in line with the guidance issued by the regulator 
at the time, which addressed the Mr Hs circumstances. Carrying out the review in this way, was a fair and reasonable approach. As such, Sesame are not required to look into the 
matter again. I therefore will not be asking them to do anything further. 
Mr H is likely to be disappointed with my decision. However, the industry-wide pension 
review at the time was meant to draw a line under the mis-selling concerns the regulator had 
about advice given between 1988 and 1994. It wouldnt therefore be fair or reasonable to 
revisit this matter again now.
My final decision
For the reasons I have provided, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman