DRN-2897602
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as G has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QEL) unfairly turned
down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the Covid-19
pandemic.
Mr D, a director of G, has brought the complaint on Gs behalf.
What happened
G held a business interruption insurance policy with QEL. G claimed on its policy after being
impacted by the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
QEL said the policy didnt cover Gs claim because the core business interruption cover
provided by the policy and some extensions required there to have been damage and Covid-
19 didnt cause damage. They said the extension for disease didnt provide cover either
because, while the policy covered losses due to some named diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on
that list.
Unhappy with QELs response, G brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Gs claim.
G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it had paid a lot of money for 
insurance policies and thought this should cover its claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Gs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if QEL have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Gs claim.
Id like to reassure G that I have considered the policy in full but have only referred to the
parts of the policy below that I think are most relevant.
Disease
This extension to the core damage cover provided under the policy provides cover for 
business interruption due to the occurrence of:
a) Acute Encephalitis Acute Poliomyelitis Anthrax Chickenpox Cholera 
Diphtheria Dysentery Legionellosis Legionnaires Disease Leprosy 
Leptospirosis Malaria Measles Meningococcal infection Mumps Opthalmia 
Neonatorum Paratyphoid Fever Plague Rabies Rubella Scarlet Fever 
Smallpox Tetanus Tuberculosis Typhoid Fever Viral Hepatitis Whooping 
Cough or Yellow Fever sustained by any person at the Premises;
b) Injury or illness sustained by any person arising from or traceable to foreign 
or injurious matter in food or drink supplied from the Premises; 
c) vermin or pests in the Premises;
d) an accident which causes defects in the drains or other sanitary 
arrangements at the Premises;
where use of the Premises is restricted on the order or advice of
the competent authority.
e) murder or suicide occurring on the Premises.
The most relevant of these is a). Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy 
was entered into, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are 
similar policies on the market that provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. 
policies which cover all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined 
list. Gs policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. 
And there is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any 
new diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering 
all and any new diseases and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Gs claim.
I understand G queried whether where use of the Premises is restricted on the order 
or advice of the competent authority provides cover, but I dont think it does. I say that 
because this isnt preceded by a letter which indicates that it is either attached to d) or 
all of the points at a) to d). I dont think it matters to this decision whether the 
wording applies only to d) or a) to d) because I havent seen anything to indicate 
that the use of Gs premises was restricted by any of the listed diseases; by injury or 
illness arising from food or drink supplied in Gs premises; vermin or pests in the 
premises; or an accident which causes defects in the drains or other sanitary 
arrangements at Gs premises. 
Prevention of access  public emergency
This extension provides cover for business interruption or interference due to:
he (sic) actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an 
emergency likely to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises 
which prevents of hinders the use or access to the Premises. 
When reaching a decision, Im required to take account of relevant law. I think the High 
Court judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case is relevant to Gs
complaint as the court considered a similar extension to the one in Gs policy and that part of 
the judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraphs 466-467 of the judgment say:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the vicinityof the insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the
government action and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be
said to be due to an emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the
neighbourhood, of the insured premises.
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also
demonstrate that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in
that sense of the neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to the
country as a whole, which led to the actions or advice of the government...
I see no reason to depart from the judgment. I think this extension was intended to
provide cover in the event of an emergency in Gs local area. And I dont think the 
Governments response to the national pandemic was due to an emergency in the
vicinity of G as opposed to the country as a whole. Therefore, this extension doesnt provide 
cover for Gs claim either.
I understand this isnt the outcome that G was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require QEL to pay Gs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman