DRN-3456467
The Complaint
Mr and Mrs N say that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) didnt fairly or
reasonably deal with their claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act
1974 (the CCA)  as amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006  in relation to a
timeshare they say they were sold on 25 July 2004 (the Time of Sale).
Background to the Complaint
It looks like Mr and Mrs N bought a points-based timeshare (the Timeshare) from a
timeshare provider (the Supplier) at the Time of Sale. They paid for it in part by using
finance from GE Money  having entered into a joint 10-year Fixed Sum Loan Agreement 
(the Credit Agreement). The cash price of the Timeshare according to the Credit Agreement
was £10,429. But the amount lent to Mr and Mrs N by GE Money was £6,779 as it looks like
they paid £3,650 directly to the Supplier in cash or by credit card. And the total amount
payable to GE Money after interest of about £7,441 was roughly £14,220.
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, Mr and Mrs N  using a
representative (LF)  wrote to GE Money on 29 October 2018 (the Letter of Claim) to
make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
The Letter of Claim made these claims for a number of reasons  which it isnt practical to
list here. But the upshot of the Letter of Claim was that Mr and Mrs N would not have made
their purchase at the Time of Sale but for the mistakes and misrepresentations at the Time
of Sale.
As it doesnt look like GE Money responded to Mr and Mrs Ns claims, a complaint was
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The complaint was then looked at by an adjudicator  who thought that it concerned claims 
in relation to two different events: one on 25 July 2004 and the other on 15 August 2006. He 
shared his answer with both sides on 2 March 2022 rejecting the complaint.
Mr and Mrs N, who were now represented by a different third-party (M), disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision without giving the adjudicator any reasons why. The 
adjudicator started that process and gave both sides until 21 March to submit new evidence 
and/or arguments.
As that deadline had passed without any new arguments and/or evidence from either side,
the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 25 March 2022. And in summary, I thought that the 
Section 75 and 140A claims were likely to have been made out of time under the Limitation 
Act 1980 (the LA)  such that GE Money had a defence to both claims under that Act.
Before I got on to my provisional findings, I made it clear that the only CCA claims I was 
looking at related to what happened at the Time of Sale as thats the event referred
to in the Letter of Claim and in Mr and Mrs Ns Complaint Form. And thats still the case now.
I followed up on my PD a few days later with an email to both sides to clarify that, while the 
assertion in the Letter of Claim that GE Money lent to Mr and Mrs N irresponsibly was 
framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A, lending 
money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question wasnt an activity covered 
by the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. And for that reason, 
while I thought it was an issue I could consider in the context of the Section 140A claim if it 
happened to be made in time under the LA, I didnt think I could consider GE Moneys 
decision to lend beyond that.
GE Money responded to my PD and the email I sent shortly afterwards, not to disagree, but 
to say that it wanted to issue Mr and Mrs N with a final response to this complaint. So, it did 
that by sending them a letter directly on 21 April 2022. And, in summary, it said the following 
in relation to this complaint:
1. Any claim under Section 75 of the CCA is out of time under the LA.
2. Allegations that relate to the information exchanged at the Time of Sale cant be 
investigated fully and fairly as GE Money didnt sell the Timeshare and wasnt present 
at the sale. So, concerns of that nature are better dealt with by the Supplier.
3. Any complaint in relation to irresponsible lending by GE Money is out of time under the 
LA. 
4. Allegations that relate to maintenance fees, the standard of accommodation and the 
availability of holidays dont fall within the scope of Section 75 of the CCA as they 
dont amount to a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
5. Any complaint in relation to GE Moneys standard of commercial conduct at the Time of 
Sale is out of time under the LA.
6. The assertion that the Supplier and, in turn, GE Money breached its fiduciary duty is out 
of time under the LA.
7. The assertion that the Supplier failed to disclose the commission paid in relation to the 
Credit Agreement, which gave rise to an unfair relationship under Section 140A, is out of 
time under the LA.
GE Money went on to give referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman Service. But it only 
did that, it seems, in relation to point four above.
Instead, GE Money referred Mr and Mrs N to the Citizens Advice Bureau as it thought that 
most if not all of the other points it sought to address in its final response fell outside of the 
Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction  whether that was because the Credit 
Agreement was entered into at a time when entering into a credit agreement of the kind in 
question wasnt an activity covered by the Services jurisdiction or because some of the acts 
and/or omissions that led to Mr and Mrs Ns claims occurred outside of the United Kingdom.
Mr and Mrs N and their representative didnt respond to my PD or subsequent email with any 
new arguments and/or evidence by the deadline I set in my PD  nor have they responded 
since. 
So, Im now ready to consider this complaint again for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
And having done all of that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Before I explain why, I want to repeat what I said in my PD about my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only 
going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and 
my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, 
I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
As I said to both sides shortly after my PD, lending money under a regulated credit 
agreement of the kind in question wasnt an activity covered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Services jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. And I still think thats the case now. So, for that 
reason, I still dont think I can consider, in its own right, GE Moneys decision to lend to 
Mr and Mrs N.
GE Money hasnt, in response to my PD, expressly challenged the Financial Ombudsman 
Services jurisdiction to consider its handling of Mr and Mrs Ns Section 140A claim. And as 
GE Money is no doubt aware, when a complainant makes a complaint about the way in 
which a business dealt with a claim under Section 75 of the CCA, the event complained 
about for the purpose of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction is the business 
handling of that claim  rather than the event(s) that the claim was made in relation to.
However, for reasons I get onto below, I still think that Mr and Mrs Ns claims under Sections 
75 and 140A were likely to have been made out of time under the LA  thus giving 
GE Money a defence to them.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be brought under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v The Society of Lloyds [2003] 
that this type of claim is an action in tort and covered by Section 2 of the Limitation Act 1980 
(the LA) or an action brought for a sum recoverable by statute under Section 9 of the LA. 
And under both of those provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to make a claim 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued.As Mr and Mrs N made a like claim against GE Money under Section 75 of the CCA, it was 
covered by Section 9 of the LA  which means they had six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued to make their claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs N had 
everything they needed to make a legal claim. And in this case, thats when they could have 
made a claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier or a like claim against GE Money. 
As Mr and Mrs N look like they entered into an agreement to purchase the Timeshare at the 
Time of Sale, or at some point in July 2004 if it wasnt on the 25th when they signed the 
Credit Agreement, thats when I think the cause of action accrued. After all, the Letter of 
Claim says that they entered into an agreement to purchase the Timeshare because of 
misrepresentations. And as the upshot of that Letter was that they would not have made 
their purchase but for the Suppliers misrepresentations, it was at the time of those 
misrepresentations that they suffered a loss as they entered into the Credit Agreement.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued at the latest on 25 July 2004 
which means Mr and Mrs N had six years from that date to make their claim. But as they
didnt do that until 29 October 2018, it looks like they fell outside of the time limit set out
in the LA. 
To be clear, Im not saying that any right that Mr and Mrs N may have to make this claim has 
expired under the LA. Thats a matter for the courts. But I do think GE Money would be 
entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to the claim. And for that reason, I see no reason to 
now ask GE Money to do anything further.
The Section 140A Claim
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr and Mrs N
and GE Money was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I
do have to consider it.
Schedule 3 of the Consumer Credit Act 2006 sets out the credit agreements to which
Section 140A applies. And in short, if a credit agreement started before 6 April 2007 and
ended before 6 April 2008, it isnt possible to make a claim under Section 140A in relation
to that credit agreement.
GE Money cant identify an account in Mr and Mrs Ns names and in an email on 31 May 
2021, it said that, in line with its retention policy, any records in relation to the Credit 
Agreement may have been destroyed because it ended more than six years ago.
As the Credit Agreement was entered into in July 2004 and set to run for 10 years, its
possible it was in place after 6 April 2008. But, based on how long businesses tend to keep
records for, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I still think its more likely than 
not that the Credit Agreement ended at least six years prior to the point at which 
Mr and Mrs N made their claim given the fact that GE Money cant trace the Credit 
Agreement.
With that being said, Ive considered the relevant provisions under the LA as it also applies 
to claims under Section 140A. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] that the time for limitation 
purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time 
the claim was made. As the limitation period is six years, and as Mr and Mrs N only made 
their claim on 29 October 2018, I think GE Money would be entitled to rely on the LA as a 
defence to this claim as well. And for that reason, I see no reason to ask GE Money to do 
anything in relation to this claim either.Commission
Ive reconsidered what the Letter of Claim says about the amount of commission that 
might have been paid by GE Money to the Supplier for arranging the loan in question. But 
as I said in my PD, had such a payment been made, I still havent seen anything to 
suggest GE Money would have breached a duty by making it  nor have I seen anything 
to suggest it was under a regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in 
these circumstances. And from what Ive seen across the timeshare industry, if 
commission was ever paid it tended to be low. So, for that reason, and in the absence of 
evidence to contrary, I still think its unlikely that the levels of commission normally paid in 
situations like the one in question were high enough to put GE Money on notice that not 
disclosing commission to Mr and Mrs N risked making their debtor-creditor relationship 
unfair under Section 140A.
Unaffordable Lending
As Ive said before, the assertion in the Letter of Claim that GE Money lent to 
Mr and Mrs N irresponsibly was framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship under Section 140A. And as Ive already explained why the claim under that 
provision was likely to have been made out of time under the LA, I dont need to say 
anything more here as Ive also already explained why I cant consider GE Moneys 
decision to lend beyond that.
Conclusion
Ultimately, as Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not the relevant 
claims against the Supplier or GE Money have expired under the LA. But, as far as I can 
see from the information available, any claim that might exist against GE Money is likely to 
have been made outside the relevant time limit set out in the LA. And for that reason, Im 
not persuaded that GE Money needs to do anything to put things right in this complaint.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022. 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman