DRN-1928221
The complaint
Mr B complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold him a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2005 in connection to his 
remortgage.
What happened
Mr B complained that he didnt know he had PPI; he didnt recall taking it; he specifically told 
YBS he didnt want it. He said he had separate insurance cover and other savings and 
investments, so he didnt need the PPI. He bought PPI for accident and sickness cover only.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like he was 
offered an optional policy and it was suitable for his needs when it was taken out. Our 
adjudicator said the information might have been clearer but concludes Mr B probably would 
have bought the PPI anyway.
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
He added other points including the following: 
The policy was free for six months;
He didnt personally complete the PPI application form  it was completed on a 
computer by YBS  he just signed it;
His PPI appears to start around eight months before he got the mortgage offer;
He does not recall meeting with YBS to discuss PPI and his mortgage at the same 
appointment.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
I first looked at whether YBS made Mr B aware the policy was optional. He said he didnt 
know he had bought PPI and could not remember taking it out. But I looked at the separate 
PPI application form from 2005. As it was a separate form, I can reasonably assume he 
didnt have to instruct YBS to complete it at all and so could have declined PPI. 
I saw Mr B had signed the PPI form, so I can reasonably assume he checked the contents of 
the form before signing it to make sure he agreed the contents. So I think his signature was 
enough for him to have PPI added to his mortgage account with his consent and knowledge.I also noted that the policy was tailored to cover Mr B for accident and sickness only and that 
would have been a conscious decision for him to take limited PPI cover. So I think the PPI 
was most likely presented to Mr B as an optional product and it was added to his account 
with his consent and knowledge. 
YBS said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for Mr Bs 
needs. In this case, I think it was suitable for Mr B because he was eligible for the PPI policy, 
it seems the policy was affordable for him at the time and, it doesnt look like he was affected 
by the main exclusions and limitations in the policy. 
I then looked into his financial circumstances at the time of the sale to see if the policy was 
still suitable for him.
Mr B said he was in full time employment and could get good employee benefits if he was off 
sick or couldnt work due to an accident; he had other fixed investments and other life 
insurance; an endowment policy which he was going to use to pay off the mortgage seven 
years into the term and his savings were earmarked to make up any shortfall caused by the 
endowment policy. 
However, having decided he wanted PPI and chose to have it, I think Mr B probably thought 
the policy provided a valuable benefit to him in addition to his employee benefits, his other 
investments and his life insurance. I say this because the PPI could have paid out for longer 
than his employee benefits at a time when he might have needed it most. So I dont think his 
employee benefits made the policy unsuitable.
I think it was useful for Mr B to be able to rely on the PPI policy for mortgage repayments 
instead of using his other funds which could be used for other expenses. And his life 
insurance was designed to cover other events which his PPI did not cover. So I dont think 
his finances at the time of the sale made the policy unsuitable.  
I also looked at whether YBS gave Mr B enough clear information about the policy. In 
respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set these out. But 
having said that, I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually explained to him in the 
meeting. So as Ive decided he chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and affordable for 
him, I dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and benefits would 
have put him off from taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions and limitations were brought to Mr Bs attention. But as he 
wasnt affected by the main exclusions and limitations to the policy, I dont think he would 
have decided not to buy PPI even if hed been given a full list of the exclusions. 
Mr B made other points which I will address:
I saw YBSs notes of Mr Bs mortgage appointment. The notes show he had a 
discussion about PPI on the same day as when he discussed the mortgage which he 
cant now recall. He also later confirmed to YBS in June 2005 that he did want the 
PPI  although this all happened a long time ago, so I can understand he may not 
remember his exact discussions. 
The PPI cover and the mortgage started on the same day on 26 January 2006, not 
eight months apart. 
Although Mr B says the first six months PPI premiums were free, I could not see any 
evidence of that on the documents I have seen. But even if the first six months had 
been free, I think this would have given him more time to decide if he wanted the PPI 
to continue.
 Taking everything into account, I think he was aware PPI was optional and he consented to 
buy it. I think it that it was suitable for his circumstances and that he had enough clear 
information to make a decision about it. So Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman