DRN-1326599
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) with her mortgage.  
What happened
In 2007 Mrs B took out a mortgage with Halifax. At the same time she was sold an MPPI 
policy to protect her mortgage payments. The policy wouldve covered her repayments if she 
was unable to work due to accident or sickness or if she lost his job. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve covered repayments for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy wouldve 
been presented as optional and that it wouldve provided a suitable benefit. 
Mrs B disagrees, she says she didnt know she had the policy. 
So her complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs B was sold the policy during a meeting. Halifax had to make it clear the policy was 
optional and that Mrs B chose to take it. Mrs B says this wasnt done but she hasnt given 
much detail about why she thought this, which I think is understandable as the policy was 
sold a while ago. So to help me reach my decision Ive also looked at what the documents 
from the time show.
Halifax has given us a copy of the quote pack it says was sent to Mrs B before the mortgage 
was taken out. Within the pack is a letter thanking Mrs B for choosing Halifax MPPI, a 
demands and needs statement and quote outlining the cost for MPPI.
The information recorded in these documents suggests that Mrs B spent some time 
discussing her circumstances and whether she wished to arrange cover to protect her 
mortgage payments and within the demands and needs document it recommends MPPI for 
Mrs B. 
I think its likely Mrs B wouldve received and read the quote pack. I think if there hadnt been 
any discussion about MPPI and Mrs B hadnt agreed to take the policy she wouldve 
questioned why she received a quote for it.Halifax have also given us a copy of Mrs Bs mortgage offer and key facts illustration. I can 
see under the section headed Insurance in both documents it says she does not need to 
take out any insurance through Halifax. Just below this is the heading Optional insurance 
and it lists the insurance and monthly cost of the MPPI Mrs B has chosen to take out. 
I think these documents present MPPI as optional and I think given the importance of the 
financial commitment Mrs B was making she wouldve read these documents and 
understood she had a choice in taking out MPPI. And I think Mrs B was covered by MPPI 
because she selected to take it based on what was recommended to her.
Halifax advised Mrs B to take out the MPPI. What this means is that Halifax not only had to 
provide information about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mrs B could 
make an informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to 
recommend MPPI that the policy was suitable to her needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Halifax did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy overall was a 
suitable recommendation for Mrs B for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mrs B says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay but she 
had no other means she could rely on if she couldnt work. A successful claim on the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and for potentially longer. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs B in her circumstances 
especially considering she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think 
she wouldve been interested in protecting her.  
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time. And 
if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she could cancel it. 
 
I also need to consider whether Halifax gave Mrs B information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy out.
I can see the cost of the policy was clear from the quote. But I dont know if Halifax gave all 
the proper information as it shouldve. But even if there was problems with the information 
and advice, for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs B 
have told us about her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the 
MPPI policy given the proper information. 
This means Mrs B arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Halifax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Bank of Scotland 
plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman