DRN-3189022
The complaint
Mr J complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) provided unsuitable advice to 
transfer a personal pension plan (PPP) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and to 
invest in unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
What happened
Mr J contacted Portal in 2012 because he was interested in taking the tax-free cash benefit 
from his PPP. 
Portal advised Mr J to transfer his PPP to a SIPP in order to take 25% tax free cash, and to 
invest the remaining funds in the SIPP in four UCIS with 12.5% of the remaining fund held in 
cash.
Mr J followed Portals recommendation and transferred his pension to the SIPP. Mr J took 
25% tax-free cash (TFC) and the residual funds in his SIPP were invested in line with 
Portals recommendation.
Mr J complained via a claims management company (CMC) that Portal had given him 
unsuitable advice. For ease of reading Ill simply refer to responses as being from Mr J. The 
basis of the complaint was that the UCIS investments werent suitable for Mr J. They were 
illiquid. And presented a greater investment risk than was appropriate for him. 
Portal responded to Mr Js complaint by explaining why it thought Mr J had complained too 
late for it to consider his complaint under the Financial Conduct Authorities (FCA) dispute 
handling rules (DISP rules). However it also commented on the merits of Mr Js complaint. 
Explaining that it thought the advice it provided was suitable. Portal acknowledged that there 
were issues with the investments that werent yet resolved. And explained that it had already 
made an offer to pay retirement income to Mr J as hed already reached pension age. It said 
that the payments would be based on the original expectations of the fund performance. And 
that Portal would continue the payments until the fund issues were resolved.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Portals answer and brought his complaint to our service. Portal 
didnt agree that the complaint was raised within the time limits that gave us jurisdiction to 
consider it. I considered the evidence and issued a jurisdiction decision explaining why the 
complaint had been made in time. 
Our investigator then looked at the merits of the complaint. He thought the case should be 
upheld. He agreed that Mr J had the objective of taking his full TFC. But was of the view that 
the investments that Portal recommended were unsuitable.
Portal didnt respond to the investigators opinion. So the case was referred for an 
ombudsman decision. After which Portal acknowledged the process but chose to offer no 
further comment on why it disagreed with the opinion that had been given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Portal have chosen not to submit any further evidence relating to this cases 
merits since I issued my jurisdiction decision in September 2021. But Im satisfied that it has 
had the opportunity to have done so. Having looked at all of the available evidence Im 
upholding Mr Js complaint for reasons that are similar to those given by our investigator. 
I wont repeat my earlier decision on jurisdiction here. But having reviewed everything on this 
case Ive seen nothing that changes my mind. I acknowledge that Mr Js complaint was 
made more than six years after the event complained about. But for the reasons I gave to 
both parties previously, his complaint was brought three years from the point that I think he 
ought to have known he had reason to complain. 
Portal have provided the recommendation that it gave Mr J in its document entitled pension 
release report. We haven't been given records of meetings that portal had with Mr J or 
supporting documentation like fact finds or attitude to risk questionnaires. Where the 
information that we have is incomplete, I need to make a finding of fact based on a balance 
of probabilities. 
Portal based its recommendation to transfer on the basis that Mr J wanted to take the 
maximum TFC he could from his pension. And Mr J has confirmed to us that he wanted to 
take his tax-free cash. He was over 55 and wanted early access to that money to clear 
debts. But didnt need to access the remaining pension as he was still working. 
Portals report explained that it discounted remaining in his pension or switching to a 
different personal pension or stakeholder pension because it wouldnt meet his objective of 
taking his TFC and leaving the remainder invested. Transferring to a SIPP did afford Mr J 
the possibility of taking his TFC and deferring any decision about taking benefits from his 
remaining pension fund.
Mr Js pension fund was around £23,000 before taking his tax-free cash. Meaning that he 
would be left with a residual fund just over £17,000. Portal were aware that it was Mr Js only 
pension. Portal assessed Mr J as having a balanced attitude to risk. It hasnt provided 
evidence to support its conclusion. But I dont think that the recommendation Portal made 
was suitable even assuming this assessment was correct. I think Mr Js capacity for loss was 
very low. This was his only pension, he had debts that he needed to clear, and at 59, didnt 
have enough working years to recover from much loss.
Portal argued that the UCIS that it recommended were suitable for a balanced risk investor. 
But I disagree. The lack of regulation and the type of assets invested in meant these UCIS 
potentially had a high degree of volatility. And Portal identified that the investments were 
illiquid. They werent suitable investments to recommend putting all of Mr Js pension fund 
into. 
In July 2010 the regulator issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and 
Poor Practice Report. It contained examples of good practice, citing firms that had robust 
controls in place and that limit client exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolio. So Portal should 
have known that recommending Mr J invest his whole pension fund in UCIS was contrary to 
regulatory guidance and was not suitable for Mr J. 
Mr J only had an investment term of five to six years before he was likely to need to take 
some form of income from this pension. The advice was given before the introduction of the Pensions freedoms in 2015. So the options for taking benefits werent the same as now. 
Portal explained that the UCIS it proposed should have provided annual returns that would 
generate potential income that could be paid from the SIPP. But the potential returns were 
highly speculative. Two of the schemes, that Portal recommended Mr J put 55% of his fund 
into, involved investment in off-plan hotel developments with no history of investment returns 
at that stage. The illiquidity of the funds meant that Mr J would not easily be able to draw 
benefits from his SIPP should those investments fail to perform as Portal suggested they 
should.
For the reasons Ive given, Portals recommended investments werent suitable for Mr J. 
Given Mr J was likely to switch his pension to enable him to access TFC, I cant now say 
what alternative investments Mr J should have been recommended instead. So I think that 
the following is a fair way to put Mr J, as close as possible, into the position hed be if Portal 
had given suitable investment advice.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr J fairly Portal should:
Compare the performance of Mr J's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Portal should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr J's pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Portal shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If Portal are unable to pay the compensation into Mr J's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr J's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr J would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
In addition, Portal should pay Mr J £300 for the trouble and upset caused, by the 
uncertainty Mr J experienced as a result of the recommended investments failure.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr J in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its 
taken off. Portal should also give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus benchmark from 
(start)to 
(end date)additional interest
Transact 
SIPPstill exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business receiving 
the complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, there are illiquid investments (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investments. So, the actual 
value of illiquid assets should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal 
should take ownership of the illiquid investments by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as above.
If Portal is unable to purchase the investments the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. Portal may wish to require that Mr J provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the investments in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, you should use 
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. 
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates 
to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr J wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr J's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr J into that position. It does not mean that Mr J 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr J could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
SIPP fees
Where the SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the 
SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or 
this is something that Mr J can discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how 
long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal should pay Mr J a lump sum equivalent to 
five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees) if Mr J is unable to 
close the SIPP. This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the 
SIPP to be closed. Mr J should provide Portal with evidence from his SIPP provider to show 
if hes unable to close the SIPP.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint and require Portal Financial Services LLP to compensate Mr J in 
the manner that Ive set out under putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman