DRN-2824416
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) recorded that his credit 
card account is in default. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The last repayment made towards the balance of Mr Cs credit card was in January 
2019. After that, Virgin sent several letters to his address to say hed missed 
repayments  which explained who to contact and what would happen if they didnt 
receive a payment. In July 2019, Virgin sent Mr C a default notice, with a default 
recorded the following month.  
So, Im satisfied that Virgin told Mr C that payments were outstanding and gave him a 
reasonable opportunity to make payment. 
Mr C explained he was going through financial difficulties at the time. But I cant see 
that he told Virgin about that. And given that six repayments were missed by August 
2019, I think it was fair for Virgin to record that the account was in default.
Mr C also said he didnt receive letters, as hed moved address. But from the 
evidence hes provided, it seems he lived at the address Virgin sent them to. I realise 
Mr C wouldve preferred to have been contacted another way, but I dont think that 
Virgin acted unfairly or unreasonably by writing to him. 
Mr C has also raised concerns that the debt was sold to another company  and the 
way that company communicated with him. Im satisfied that Virgin were entitled to 
sell the debt, in line with the credit agreement. And if Mr C is unhappy with the way 
hes been treated by the new owner, that needs to be raised as a separate complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as 
Virgin Money). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman