DRN-2295953
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt tell him it had changed its overpayment 
policy. He says he missed the opportunity to make higher overpayments.
What happened
Mr G took out a five-year fixed interest rate product in 2015. This includes an early 
repayment charge (ERC) which applies if the mortgage is repaid while the product is in 
place. However, the mortgage offer said Mr G could make overpayments of up to 20% of the 
minimum monthly payment without incurring an ERC.
Mr G increased his payments immediately after taking out the mortgage, making 
overpayments up to the 20% ERC-free allowance. 
In September 2015 HSBC changed its overpayment policy so that customers could make 
payments of up to 10% of their outstanding balance without incurring an ERC. It says it 
wrote to all customers saying this. Mr G says he didnt receive the letter and wasnt told 
about the new policy. He says if hed known, hed have increased his payments and reduced 
his balance and interest costs.
Our investigator said it was likely the letter about the change in policy was sent to Mr G. And 
information about HSBCs overpayment policy was available online. The investigator said 
HSBC had taken reasonable steps to inform Mr G about the change.
Mr G didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I understand Mr Gs frustration here. I dont doubt his intention to make overpayments. He 
asked about overpayments when he took out the product in 2015. And he started making the 
maximum monthly overpayments immediately after taking out a new interest rate product in 
2015.
HSBC changed its policy in late 2015. Lenders change their policies from time to time, and 
are entitled to do so. In this case the change benefitted Mr G as it allowed him to make 
higher overpayments. Unfortunately, Mr G wasnt aware of this until 2020. 
HSBC says it sent letters to all customers. This was a bulk mailing, meaning HSBC cant 
provide evidence of the actual letter sent to Mr G. However, I think its more likely than not 
that the letter was sent to Mr Gs address in HSBCs records. Information about the 
overpayment policy was available on HSBCs website. And there were links from customers 
online mortgage accounts showing the amount that could be overpaid.
While Mr G was registered for online banking he says he didnt use it. He only recently 
downloaded the banking app. I appreciate that Mr G had no reason to go online or contact 
HSBC to check whether it had changed its overpayment policy. Mr G says hed expect a 
letter sent to his home address. HSBC says it sent a letter to him. 
HSBC says its staff were told about the change in policy in mid-late September 2015. Mr G 
took out the new product in August 2015, not long before staff were made aware of the 
change. This timing was unfortunate, and I can appreciate how frustrated Mr G is about it. 
I sympathise with Mr G and I do think its very unfortunate that he didnt receive the letter or 
see information online about the change in HSBCs overpayment policy. I think though that 
HSBC took reasonable steps to inform Mr G about the new policy. I cant reasonably find 
that HSBC is at fault if its letter didnt arrive safely with Mr G. It put information on its website 
and online banking. I dont think its reasonable to say that HSBC should have contacted all 
mortgage customers (or even those with fixed interest rate products) individually to check 
they were aware of the new policy.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman