DRN-2157879
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about Liverpool Victoria Life Company Limited (LV). She is unhappy 
about the maturity value of two polices she held with them, and about LVs requirements 
before it would pay out on one of them.
What happened
Mrs H held two savings policies with LV. These had originally been funds arranged with the 
Royal National Pension Fund for Nurses (RNPFN). The funds had been arranged in 1989 
and 1994 and were arranged to mature in 2019 when Mrs H reached her planned retirement 
age. The polices were taken over by LV.
LV wrote to Mrs H early in 2019 telling her the maturity value of the Retirement Savings plan 
and wrote to her separately about the Moneybuilder savings plan. In this letter it asked 
whether she wished to receive the funds as a lump sum or as an annuity. LV also asked that 
she complete a payment request form which included a waiver against making any further 
claim on the policy.
Mrs H returned the form unsigned and complained about the maturity values. The maturity 
value on the Moneybuilder plan wasnt paid. LV didnt uphold the complaint and it was 
referred to this service in October 2019.
The complaint was considered by an investigator. He didnt think that it should be upheld 
and set out his view on the maturity values and the Moneybuilder maturity payment.
He said, in summary:
Maturity values
The key features documents from the time both policies were taken out gave 
illustrations which showed potential maturity values based on assumed monthly 
contributions and rates of investment return. The final values werent guaranteed 
although there was a guaranteed minimum payment.
The minimum guaranteed payment could be increased by annual and terminal 
bonuses. But these bonuses werent guaranteed and were added at the discretion of 
the RNPFN Council. 
Annual bonuses were consistently added through the 1990s, so it would be 
understandable to expect this would continue. 
LV have said funds from RNPFN policies had to be ring-fenced, meaning they could 
only be used to fund RNPFN policies. 
Equally, RNPFN policyholders werent entitled to mutual bonus from LV as these 
policies werent originally taken out with LV. LV managed the RNPFN independently 
from their own With-Profits policies so profits earned by LV wouldnt be shared with 
Mrs H by way of a mutual bonus, and profits earned by the funds in RNPFN policies 
would only be shared with those policyholders.
LV said that in principle, they had to balance fair management of the policies with the 
best return possible for policy holders. This was reasonable in the investigators view 
and he hadnt received persuasive evidence to indicate they havent acted fairly.
RNPFN had begun reducing the annual bonuses considerably before LV taking on 
the policies. For example, on the Moneybuilder policy, the bonus was cut from 3 per 
cent in 1996 to less than 1 per cent 2001, and on the Retirement Savings plan the 
bonus was cut from 4.5 per cent to 1.25 per cent over the same period. This 
supported LVs explanation for taking away the annual bonus  the reduction in 
bonus reduces guarantees that have to be covered by risk free assets thereby 
improving the solvency of the overall fund. The investigator thought that this was a 
reasonable and responsible objective.
Although the statement made by LV in their final response that the final bonus 
accounted for 70 per cent of the maturity payments, could be misleading, the final 
bonuses had been applied at a rate of around 70 per cent on both policies.
The investigator concluded that although the returns were lower than Mrs H had 
expected, this wasnt due any error by LV and was more likely due to reduced 
investment returns generally.
Moneybuilder maturity value payment
The payment request form LV sent asked Mrs H to select between two options for 
how the maturity value should be paid. The investigator thought this request was 
usual and not unreasonable. Mrs H didnt sign the form as she didnt want to fully and 
finally settle her claim on the policy but that wouldnt prevent her from making a 
complaint, so she wasnt in an unfair position. 
But LV had offered to increase the payment in line with the limited price index up to 
the date of payment. He felt this was fair.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint but said he would ask LV for another form of 
wording to accept the payment and also ask for evidence of the distribution of the inherited 
estate, investment performance and returns to policyholders.
Mrs H didnt agree. She responded and reiterated that her complaint was about:
The poor maturity payments for both policies.
LV withholding her money because she refused to sign the declaration on the form, 
signing away her rights.
The lack of equity with LV with-profits policies, particularly the distribution of the 
mutual bonus which reflects the profits of the company as a whole. As an LV member 
she should have shared in the profits of the wider organisation.RNPFN gave bonuses annually, they werent gradually withdrawing them and that 
had never been cited. They were lowest in 2001 but as well as being dependent 
interest rates at the time.
LV have never been transparent about what the fair share of the policies should be.
The investigator obtained further information from LV regarding the breakdown of the policy 
values and about investment performance. He provided this to Mrs H and explained that his 
view hadnt changed. He said, in summary:
Before the RNPFN funds were taken over by LV, RNPFN had begun reducing the 
annual bonuses considerably. 
The policy documents made clear there wasnt a guarantee of either the annual 
bonuses continuing or of the maturity value. Illustrations provided were based on the 
maturity values being paid at that time. These were dependent on the rate of 
investment returns continuing and this hasnt proven to be the case as the data LV 
have provided demonstrates.
LVs guide about how it manages the RNPFN fund makes clear they use final 
bonuses to provide a fair return to policyholders. This is a fair and justifiable reason 
for withdrawing annual bonuses and the actions LV took are consistent with its own 
guide on how they manage the fund. 
After deducting the enhancement from the inherited estate, the bonus returns on both 
policies averaged across the entire period of investment is 3.6 per cent and 3.2 per 
cent per year. These rates are higher than those of the bonuses RNPFN added 
annually in the years prior to LV taking over the policy. Therefore, LV havent acted 
unfairly in withdrawing the annual bonuses.
In the years prior to LV taking over the policy, the average investment return was 9 
per cent per year and the average annual bonuses received on the policies were 
3.85 per cent and 3.2 per cent respectively. In the years when LV managed the 
policies the average investment return was 4.35 per cent, so its clear a greater 
portion of the investment returns achieved were paid in the final bonus. 
The fall in investment returns over time is consistent with investment returns market-
wide.
Theres no evidence to show investment returns fell because of any unreasonable 
decision taken by LV. 
LVs fund management guide said that the enhancement for the inherited estate 
would be made in the final bonus.
The investigator didnt agree that there was evidence of any misappropriation of 
funds from the inherited estate.
RNPFN policies were ringfenced from LVs own policies. So RNPFN funds could only 
be used to fund bonuses on those policies and equally, they couldnt receive a mutual bonus from LV that was funded by LVs own policies. It is clear therefore LV 
managed the RNPFN policies independently from its own with-profits policies.
LV has said that it is willing to pay the maturity value subject to Mrs H providing 
written confirmation of how she wants to take the policy benefits. This will not impact 
on any complaint Mrs H may have.
Mrs H didnt agree with this further review and provided a detailed response setting out why. 
Ive tried to summarise this as follows:
Poor returns, by failing to add any yearly bonus from the date of transfer, LV were 
failing to keep to the terms of the transfer (by not meeting Mrs Hs expectations) and 
were adversely affecting my maturity payment and death payment in doing so, by not 
steadily building up the sum assured.
RNPFN was a top performing fund, specifically aimed at healthcare workers. There 
were no salesmen and no commission to be paid. The documents received in 1989 
and 1994 tabled the current maturity values for policies maturing at the time, these 
were not illustrations of what might happen in the future.
Bonuses were discontinued after transfer to LV. LV may have thought the bonuses 
already provided a fair return but that wasnt the expectation. 
LV are not being transparent about the terms of the transfer. The transfer provided 
that the inherited estate would be distributed over their lifetime to holders of 
qualifying with profits policies. Under the proposal both policies would be eligible for a 
terminal bonus enhancement. LV are required to manage the fund in accordance 
with the principles of financial management set out in the scheme. On transfer, the 
fund will be closed to new business. Pay-out is to be targeted on 100% of asset 
shares plus enhancement to reflect the distribution of the Estate.
But there has been no transparency about pay-outs at maturity and the distribution of 
the Inherited Estate has never been explained.
LV has mismanaged the plans, this is evidence by complaint to the ombudsman and 
media reports.
Annual bonuses were paid to LV policies from 2011, these policies were managed by 
the same company, but no bonuses were paid.
LV havent demonstrated that the inherited estate has been distributed fairly. 
Compared with policies from 2002 and 2003, Mrs H could expect a payment of over 
£12,000 but received less than £5,000.
The returns expected werent met. The returns were less than a normal savings 
account.
The investigator didnt change his view and as, no agreement was reached, the case has 
been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive tried to summarise above the points made by both parties in this complaint. Ive not 
addressed each and every point that has been raised in my decision as Ive chosen to focus 
on the issues which I think are central and decisive to the outcome. I have read everything 
and having done that, Ive decided that I agree with the investigator and with his conclusions. 
I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate this will disappoint Mrs H, and I can understand why she may be unhappy about 
the final values of her policies. Clearly, these values havent met her expectation, but Im not 
satisfied that LV are to blame for that, or that LV should make any further payment to her.
Whilst its true that these policies may not have performed as well as was expected at the 
time they were started, they would have been considered to be relatively safe and secure 
methods for long term saving. In 1989, with-profits policies had been performing well for 
many years, often producing substantial terminal bonuses. Unfortunately, in more recent 
years, many with-profits policies have performed badly. This is true for many providers and 
is certainly not limited to LV and reflects the lower investment returns experienced in the last 
decade or more.
Any illustrations Mrs H was given at the time she started the policies were only that, 
illustrations, and didnt provide any guarantees or assurances of future performance. Thats 
the position regardless of whether the illustrations were based on actual past performance or 
anticipated future performance.
With-profits policies are not simple and straightforward investments. There can be a lack of 
transparency and its often difficult for a policyholder to calculate what they may be entitled 
to. The ultimate policy value is heavily dependent on bonuses that may be added during the 
policy term, including the final bonus (if any). The bonuses themselves are discretionary and 
are not guaranteed. Its up to the business to decide if a bonus is to be added and how much 
it will be, and once an annual bonus is added it cant be taken away or reduced. Its not the 
role or function of this service to replace a decision a business has made at its own 
discretion with our own decision. That means that I cant say that LV should have paid 
bonuses after the transfer or what level of bonus should have been paid. Those were 
matters for LV and its commercial judgement and discretion. It was under no obligation to 
award bonuses, either annual or final.
LV took over these polices at a time when investment returns were not as strong as they had 
been. Its also clear that the annual bonuses RNPFN had been adding were declining in the 
years leading up to the transfer. I understand Mrs H has made comparisons with RNPFN 
policies which may have matured in 2002 or 2003, but I dont think any valid comparison 
can be made of the final value of those policies with her own. Thats because those polices 
would have benefitted from many years with stronger investment performance through the 
eighties and nineties.
Also, I cant second guess LVs calculation of the policy values including the terminal 
bonuses. These values will be calculated by its actuaries who have their own professional 
obligations and are also subject to regulatory oversight. This regulatory oversight is also 
relevant to the points Mrs H has raised about the inherited estate. The management of all 
companies with-profits funds is overseen by the regulator, which is now the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). So, the regulator will have been kept apprised of LVs plans to 
distribute RNPFNs inherited estate. This money wouldve been ring-fenced in the fund and it 
simply wouldnt have been possible for LV to use it for other purposes or mis-appropriate it 
as Mrs H suggests. A feature of the transfer to LV was that the RNPFN funds as a whole would be ring-fenced 
from other LV funds. Ive not seen anything to suggest that this hasnt been the case. So, 
whilst Mrs H complains that she has been treated less favourably than other LV customers 
and that LV policies have received bonuses when her policies havent, it was always the 
position that the funds she invested in would be kept separate. Im satisfied that this was 
always made reasonably clear. There was never any possibility for the RNPFN funds to be 
shared with LV customers and, equally, Mrs H wouldnt share in any of the LV funds or wider 
LV profits. 
I can understand that Mrs H may have been reluctant to sign a waiver against any future 
claim given her concerns about the policy value. But I dont think the waiver was particularly 
unusual and signing it would not have prevented her from making a complaint as she did. 
But in any event, LV has agreed to release the funds without a waiver and to increase the 
maturity value up to the date of payment. Like the investigator, I think this is fair.
To summarise, Im satisfied that:
The final values of Mrs Hs policies (above the sum assured) were not guaranteed 
and depended on investment performance. Investment performance has, overall, not 
been as strong as was anticipated in 1989 (or 1994).
Bonuses were not guaranteed and were at the discretion of LV (and RNPFN).
Comparisons with policies that matured in 2002 or 2003 are not valid.
The RNPFN policies had to be ring-fenced, meaning they could only be used to fund 
RNPFN policies. RNPFN policyholders werent entitled to mutual bonus from LV as 
these policies werent originally taken out with LV. 
The calculation of bonuses and the share of the inherited estate is a matter for LV 
and its actuaries, but it is subject to regulatory oversight.
The inherited estate is ring-fenced and subject to regulatory oversight.
I agree with the investigator, Im sorry Mrs H is disappointed with the value of her policies 
and I can understand this is a bitter pill, particularly at this time as she enters her retirement 
years. But for the reasons given, I cannot uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman