DRN-3449845
The complaint
Miss C complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined her travel insurance claim. My 
references to AXA include its agents.
What happened
Miss C has travel insurance, insured by AXA, through her bank account.
On 19 December 2019 Miss C travelled abroad and was due to return to the UK on 
6 January 2020. However on 28 December 2019 Miss C says she developed flu like 
symptoms which worsened the following day. She spoke to the airline who arranged for her 
to return to the UK on 29 December 2019 at no extra cost. On 31 December 2020 Miss C 
called her GP who did a note stating that between 27 December 2019 and 2 January 2020 
Miss C wasnt fit to work as she was suffering from flu like symptoms. Miss C claimed on her 
policy for the unused hotel costs and coach ticket home.
AXA declined the claim. It said there was no cover for the claim under the policy terms as 
Miss C hadnt obtained evidence that cutting short her trip was medically necessary and she 
hadnt contacted its medical assistance helpline to get authorisation.
Miss C complained to us. She said she hadnt thought it necessary to speak to a doctor or 
AXA and there was no time to do so as she got a flight home quickly. She also said shed 
previously been hospitalised with a chest infection following flu, she had other medical 
conditions that meant flu could badly affect her and her GP thought it was important for her 
to get home.
Our investigator said AXA had fairly declined the claim. Miss C then provided two further 
letters from her GP practice which she said supported her claim. AXA didnt change its mind, 
it said Miss Cs GP didnt see her to be able to assess whether it was medically necessary 
for her to come home early. Our investigator still thought AXAs decision to decline the claim 
was fair.
Miss C disagrees and wants an ombudsmens decision. She said GP surgeries ask people 
with flu symptoms not to attend to limit spreading the virus so it was sensible for her to 
phone the GP and anyway she wasnt well enough to go to see the GP.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that insurers should handle claims promptly 
and fairly, and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. I have to decide whether AXA fairly 
and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. I dont uphold the complaint and Ill 
explain why.
The policy says under the Cancellation/Cutting Short Your Trip section that AXA will cover: 
non-refundable pre-booked travel and accommodation expenses which You have 
paid or are contracted to pay; and
reasonable additional travel and accommodation expenses which You incur returning 
to the UK which on medical advice is necessary and unavoidable as a result 
The death, injury, or illness, certified by a medical practitioner of You..
The policy also states under the same section:
What IS NOT covered:
Any additional travel and accommodation expenses incurred that are not considered 
necessary or authorised by the Medical Assistance Helpline in advance.
When AXA initially declined the claim there was no medical evidence that it was medically 
necessary and unavoidable for Miss C to cut short her trip. The information from the GP 
about Miss C not being fit to work during certain dates wasnt enough evidence to show her 
early return was medically necessary. And Miss C hadnt contacted AXAs medical 
assistance helpline to authorise additional returning home costs. So AXA was correct to say 
Miss Cs claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Ive also considered whether theres any basis for me to say it would be fair and reasonable 
for AXA to pay the claim, even though the claim wasnt covered by the strict policy terms.
Its reasonable for AXA to say the decision for Miss C to return home early must be based on 
medical advice. AXA says if Miss C had contacted it before she cut short her holiday, as she 
should have done, it would have required her to see a doctor before returning home so it had 
evidence whether or not her early return was medically necessary. Miss C says she didnt 
have time to contact AXA or see a doctor before her rearranged flight. But I think if she had 
contacted AXA, as she reasonably should have done, its probable it would have arranged 
for a doctor to see her in a reasonable timescale.  
So I think its reasonable for AXA to want strong persuasive evidence that if Miss C had seen 
a doctor when she was abroad the doctor would have said it was medically necessary for 
her to return home early.
Ive seen the two letters Miss Cs GP practice has provided following our investigators 
recommendations that Miss Cs complaint not be upheld. In the first letter the GP said 
Miss C spoke to a doctor at the surgery when she was home, shed flown home early from 
holiday as she felt unwell with flu like symptoms for four to five days and she came home 
early as she knows she is prone to chest infections. The doctor who spoke to Miss C 
documented that this was a sensible decision given the symptoms she had heard on the 
phone. Miss C was advised to rest, have fluids and paracetamol. The letter ends by saying 
I hope this information confirms (Miss C)was felt to be significantly unwell by the doctor.
In the second letter, which the GP provided after our investigator said AXA could still decline 
the claim, the GP added please accept this as confirmation that it was felt medically 
necessary for (Miss C) to return home.
AXA says although Miss Cs GP ultimately said it was medically necessary for her to return 
home, neither the GP who wrote the letter, or the colleague who spoke to Miss C, saw 
Miss C to assess her medical condition. They only reported what Miss C told them so the 
GPs evidence isnt persuasive enough.I dont think the letters from the GP are strong enough evidence for me to reasonably say 
AXA must accept Miss Cs claim in these circumstances. The GP didnt see Miss C to be 
able to fully assess if her symptoms meant it would have been medically necessary for her to 
return home from abroad early. Miss C says people with flu symptoms are discouraged from 
going to surgeries but in these circumstances I think AXA can reasonably say the letter from 
the GP isnt as persuasive as it needs to be. 
Also, I can see Miss C told her GP surgery that for her claim to be covered she needed 
confirmation that it was medically necessary for her to return home. She asked for that 
addition to be made to the GPs first letter, which was provided in the second letter. I think 
the fact that the GPs letter said Miss Cs early return was medically necessary only after 
Miss C asked for the letter to say that makes the evidence less persuasive. Its reasonable 
for me to consider that the original evidence from the GP, before our investigator detailed the 
evidence that was required for the claim to be met, is the most accurate evidence and that 
doesnt say it was medically necessary for Miss C to return home early.
Overall I dont think there is enough persuasive evidence that if Miss C had seen a doctor 
while abroad the doctor would have said it was medically necessary for her to return home 
early. So Im satisfied AXA fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman