DRN-4070347
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as 
Chase, surrounding an unsuccessful online payment he attempted to make. 
What happened
Mr B attempted to make a purchase online for approximately £60 using his Chase debit card 
online. The payment wasnt successful, and Mr B wasnt happy that Chase didnt reimburse 
the money back into his account for several days. So, he raised a complaint.
Chase responded to Mr B and explained that theyd followed the correct process for 
unsuccessful payments and so didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards him. Mr B wasnt 
satisfied with Chases response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Chase had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were several parties involved in the online transaction that Mr B attempted to make. 
These include Mr B himself, the Vendor to which the payment was attempted, and Chase. 
However, another crucial party to the transaction was the card provider  the business 
whose logo is on Mr Bs Chase debit card and who facilitate the movement of money from 
Mr Bs Chase account to the Vendor.
Card providers set rules as to how certain situations regarding attempted payments must be 
handled. And Chase  like all banks  are obliged to follow these rules. 
Importantly, regarding unsuccessful attempted payments, the card provider in question 
stipulates that a bank must wait for at least seven days to allow an attempted payment the 
opportunity to complete before considering returning the pending funds set aside for that 
payment back to the account of the person that attempted to make the payment.
This is why Chase didnt return the pending money back to Mr Bs account as quickly as he 
wanted here  because they followed the rules that were applicable to the situation as 
dictated by the card provider. And while I appreciate that Mr B may not have been happy 
that Chase couldnt return the pending amount back to his account sooner  because of the 
rules of the card provider  I cant reasonably or fairly say that Chase acted unfairly towards 
him by following the process dictated by the rules of the card provider that they were obliged 
to follow.
Mr B may argue that it was through some fault of Chases that the payment wasnt 
successful and may point to correspondence received from the Vendor which states that the 
attempted payment didnt make it far enough down the payment chain to ever reach them.
But I dont feel that it can reasonably or fairly be said that Chase was responsible for the 
payment failing here, especially given the number of other parties involved and also 
considering that other factors  such as network connectivity at any stage in the process, 
including with the Vendor  may have played a part.
Ultimately, Mr B attempted to make a payment which, for whatever reason, wasnt 
successful. Unfortunately, occurrences such as this do happen. And when they do happen, 
banks such as Chase have processes that theyre obliged to follow  which Im satisfied is 
what happened in this instance.
This isnt to say that Mr B wasnt inconvenienced by what happened here, and I 
acknowledge that he was. But it is to say that I feel that any inconvenience that Mr B 
encountered is unfortunately something that may occur when attempting to make online 
payments, and isnt something that I would reasonably consider holding Chase accountable 
for  for the reasons explained above.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr B was wanting here, but it follows from all the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Chase to take any further action. 
I hope Mr B will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman