DRN-3571470
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc, referred to as the
business.
In summary they say:
They were given unsuitable investment advice.
Their funds werent subjected to an ISA wrapper  which wouldve been in their best 
interest.
They wanted to start feeding their money into a different fund but were  after long 
meetings  persuaded from doing so.
The fees, and ongoing fees, werent explained to them.
Overall, the business hasnt acted in their best interests.
The want to be put in the position they wouldve been in, but for the businesss advice, so
they can follow their own course of action.
What happened
In 2016, Mr and Mrs A were advised to invest £16,042 each into an ISA and £18,957.89
each into a Unit Trust Feeder, 100% of which was invested in the Managed Fund Portfolio. It
was established that they had access to over £40,000, available in cash between them, for
their daily needs and emergencies.
The recommendation letter showed that Mr and Mrs As overall objective was recorded as
capital growth and investing in a tax efficient manner for 5-15 years. They were unhappy
with the returns from deposit accounts and wanted to achieve potentially better returns on
their money.
The business established that Mr and Mrs A were comfortable investing their capital in
mainly equity and property, with some overseas equities. They were aware/made aware that
there might be a significant fall in the value of their investment but accepted this gave them
the potential to achieve better long-term returns.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs A were advised to invest another £15,000 each into a joint Unit Trust
Feeder.
At this point it was recorded that they each had an ISA for £39,675 and a Unit Trust for
approximately £6,242. This was invested in the Managed Fund Portfolio and it was
established that they had an emergency fund of £180,000 in accessible cash accounts.
It was also recorded that Mr and Mrs As priority/objective was capital growth over the
medium to long term, at a rate that exceeds deposit-based interest rate and inflation. The
adviser felt the recommendation was suitable as it would achieve tax efficiency as it
automatically feeds into their ISA each tax year.
The business has provided information to show that the Managed Funds Portfolio carried a
medium level risk and potential for growth and was made up of a number of funds, including:
Balanced Managed; Global, Global Equity; Managed Growth; Multi Asset; Strategic Income
Gross; Strategic Managed.
In late May 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:  
I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons.
Subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs A say, Im satisfied
that the fees were made reasonably clear to them, and the recommendation was suitable
given their circumstances at the time.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr and Mrs As strength of feeling about this matter.
They and the business have provided detailed submissions in respect of the complaint,
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr and Mrs A wont take the fact
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a
discourtesy. Im aware of the background to this complaint and their (previous) relationship
with the adviser.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised under a
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this
case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the
pertinent points. Im also not bound by the decision of another ombudsman. Even if the
cases are similar, even the smallest difference can make a difference to the outcome.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs A and the business, and reach
what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case,
rather than take any sides. Im not here to decide if the business couldve done things
differently. Im considering whether (or not) it made an error in respect of the advice it
provided.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide,
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs A now say, Im
satisfied that they were willing and able to take a medium risk, with a portion of their money,
in order to achieve their objective.
Im not suggesting that any level of risk other than a medium risk wouldve been unsuitable
or that they absolutely had to take a medium risk to meet their needs and/or objective.
Based on the evidence, on balance, I think they were willing to take a greater risk for the
potential for greater returns albeit, and they werent outside of their risk appetite.
Whilst I cant say that they were experienced investors  I dont believe they were  I think
its likely that they understood, or ought reasonably to have understood, the general risks
involved. Ive seen nothing to suggest that they were risk averse or werent willing to take a
risk with their money in order to achieve their aims and objective for growth.
I note they had capacity for loss, and therefore were in a good position to invest and morelikely than not, take a medium risk in order achieve greater returns than they were receiving
from deposit-based account. I understand its not necessary to take a medium level risk in
order to achieve returns/better returns than a deposit based account, but they were willing to
do so in order to achieve better returns (uncapped growth) in the medium to long term.
I note the adviser says that Mr and Mrs A wished to diversify away from property, and that
they even decided to select the adventurous portfolio for a small portion of their money as
they wanted to try something riskier. I note the adviser says that they were the only clients to
have demanded such a fund in 30 years. He has explained that Mr and Mrs A insisted on
keeping these separate to the rest of their portfolio, they didnt specifically ask for these two
to be placed in a wrapper. In any case, they couldnt hold two ISA feeder accounts and had
they attended any one of the invitations for meetings the issue regarding the standalone ISA
mightve been spotted and dealt with.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I agree with the investigator that the fees were
made clear to Mr and Mrs A through various documents provided to them at the outset. If
they didnt understand or disagreed, they couldve raised an issue with their adviser or
decided not to go ahead with the recommendation at any point within the cancellation period.
Despite what Mr and Mrs A say, on balance, Im unable to safely say that the fees werent
referred to or discussed verbally.
I note that no issues were raised at the time suggesting that they werent unhappy with what
they were told. I appreciate Mr and Mrs A say that that the fees are just dawning on them or
words to that effect, but in the circumstances, I cant blame the business for this. If they still
need clarification/further information regarding their fees Im sure the business will be happy
to help.
A financial business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial
judgement, to set its own fees, as long as it has made this reasonably clear to the parties
and Im satisfied in this instance the adviser probably has. It might be that Mr and Mrs A
arent accustomed to paying fees, or this level of fees, given their line of business, but this is
just an observation.
I note the adviser disagrees that the fee structure is punitive and includes service, advice
and labour intensive cash-flow planning  and other services which he didnt charge for 
which Mr and Mrs A seemed to appreciate.
Despite what Mr and Mrs A say, on balance Im satisfied that the key facts about our
services and costs also made clear that the business would provide advice that was
restricted to its products and services rather than the entire market as a whole - in the way
that an independent financial adviser would be.
I note out of three options for independent advice, restricted advice, and no advice, the
option ticked is restricted advice which states:
Restricted advice  We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we have
assessed our needs. We only offer products from a limited number of companies. You may
ask us for a list of title companies whose products we offer.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that they were misled
or advised anything different about this. In other words, Im unable to say that they were
advised or told that the business operated as an IFA.
I note the adviser says SJP as a tied agent was clearly outlined as it has been over 20 years
and more recently when investing  in the form of an SCDD and suitability lettersI agree with the investigator that complaints about investment performance alone is not
something that our service would consider. The performance of an investment is dependent
on market movements and isnt something that a business can guarantee or predict. In this
instance Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business gave Mr and Mrs A any guarantees
about what they might get back.
I note Mr and Mrs A complain that they were persuaded to follow a course of action that
wasnt their own. But despite what they say, I note that they werent obliged to follow the
business recommendation and that they couldve said no at any point during the meeting or
if they felt they couldnt at the time, afterwards during the cooling off period or any point
thereafter.
Based on what the parties say, I think its more likely than not a number of options were
considered  some of which was with the assistance of a local solicitor regarding pension
advice (which doesnt form a part of this complaint)  Mr and Mrs A opted to go with the
adviser. Im aware they say the trust they had in the adviser won them over, but has been a
poor financial decision for them, and their children. But they had the option to consult an IFA
to get a fuller view of the market because the adviser wasnt required or allowed to offer
advice about investments outside of those offered by the business, such as the tracker fund
Mrs A refers to.
It could be argued that if the business hadnt spent time advising Mr and Mrs A, that it didnt
allow them enough time to ask questions, digest the advice and think things through. It could
also be argued that if they were so committed to their tracker fund  which had apparently
been recommended by a friend who used to be an IFA  why they didnt just invest in it. It
seems to me much of the concerns are raised in retrospect.
I note in an email exchange in 2017, possibly previous to the meeting with the solicitors, Mrs
A says to the adviser:
Thanks for all the input, I might resist some things at meeting times but always give them
some thought after therefore it was all very useful discussion.
To which the adviser replies:
I am glad you found the meeting useful and I don't see you as resistant at all but instead a
very intelligent person who rather than just sit and nod, actually gives input that helps take 
the advice forward which is brilliant as far as I am concerned.
The above doesnt suggest that Mr and Mrs A were likely to just sit and accept the advice
simply based on trust, without challenge or without being satisfied it was the right thing for
them.
Im mindful the investigator says that a review of the asset allocation of the funds revealed
that most of the funds had more than 50% of their assets in equities. The remainder of the
assets were in shares, fixed interest and index linked securities issued by companies and
governments and UK equities. Given the mix of funds I dont think the inclusion of the Multi
Asset Fund of itself meant the advice was unsuitable.
The mix of assets, in amongst the other funds, was broadly in line with their attitude to risk 
including 29.6% in government bonds, 16% in investment grade corporate bonds and 16.1%
in alternatives. I dont accept that the fund was consistently doing badly in the last 4 years,
besides past performance isnt a guarantee of future performance.
I agree with the investigators points regarding the Unit Trust Feeder. On balance, I dontthink the business couldve foreseen or predicted Mrs and Mr As surrendering their
investment within three years after it was started  roughly less than a third of the time they
couldve remained invested for. There was nothing to suggest at the point of sale, that they
might need the money within this period either.
I note Mr and Mrs A decided to encash their investment and did so of their own volition and
without advice, therefore I cant blame the business for their actions and any losses suffered
as a result.
Its possible that the alternative tracker fund did better than their investment, but that doesnt
of itself mean that the advice they received was unsuitable. Im aware the busines maintains
that the two investments arent comparable, but in any event theres no way an adviser
wouldve known in advance which investment wouldve done better and from what I can see
no guarantees were given. I also cant disregard the impact of the global pandemic on the
financial world, something that the adviser wouldnt have been aware of or couldve
predicted at the time.
The above notwithstanding its not entirely unclear if that tracker fund was specifically
mentioned or what was said about it. I note the adviser maintains it wasnt, although Mrs A
concedes she now knows why it wasnt recommended to her. And Mr and Mrs A says it was
what they intended to do but its not clear if they mentioned it to the adviser. Ultimately, its
unlikely to have made a difference given the advisers remit.
I note the comparison Mrs A says shes made based on them investing £100,000 in the Unit
tracker in 2016, she feels she wouldve been better off in the sum of £25,000 but this is all
with the benefit of hindsight. And whilst Mr and Mrs A remain thoroughly dissatisfied with the
fees theyve paid  high fees low returns  there isnt a direct correlation between the fees
paid and the level of return they could expect so I cant uphold this complaint on this basis.
Im not here to decide if the business couldve done things differently, or if another product
was more suitable  as Ive mentioned, my role is to consider if the business has done
anything wrong and on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say
that it has.
Im mindful of Mr and Mrs As wider points, but on the face of the evidence and on balance,
Im unable to safely say that the business hasnt acted honestly, fairly, and professionally in
accordance with the best interests of Mr and Mrs A.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive provisionally reached the
same conclusion as the investigator. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, I cant ask the
business to pay the loss claimed and/or any compensation.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give Mr and Mrs A what they want.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
The business didnt provide any further points. 
Mr and Mrs A responded and disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary they were 
disappointed and felt that issues had remained unanswered with regards to fees. Theyre 
unhappy that the industry is supported in treating customers unfairly. Its clear the business 
is pre-occupied with sales/income and not its customers financial wellbeing. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions from Mr and Mrs A, my decision not 
to uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied that no new material points have been made that persuade me 
to change my decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, 
and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs A say, Im still 
satisfied that the fees were made reasonably clear to them, and the recommendation was 
suitable given their circumstances at the time.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive maintained my decision. 
Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr and Mrs A what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman