DRN-3026641
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has settled their claim 
under their travel insurance policy.
Any reference to UKI also includes their agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have travel insurance as a benefit through a bank account. They booked a trip 
abroad departing the UK in February 2020 and were due to return in early May 2020. As a 
result of the Covid-19 outbreak, Mr and Mrs B were informed that their flights home had 
been cancelled. They rebooked flights for June 2020, which were subsequently also 
cancelled but were finally able to return to the UK in late July 2020. 
Upon their return home, Mr and Mrs B made a claim to UKI for the cost of the additional 
accommodation they had incurred as a result of their extended stay  a sum of 
approximately 3050 Euros. In addition, they claimed for some medical expenses they 
incurred to replace essential medication during this time. 
UKI said as Mr and Mrs B didnt cut short their trip there is no cover under the policy for 
these expenses. However, it was prepared to consider the claim further if Mr and Mrs B 
could show they had attempted to return home earlier than planned. Without this evidence it 
said it would consider the claim under the travel delay section of the policy, which would be 
limited to £500. UKI did agree to pay the medical expenses for those items which were 
essential medication.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr and Mrs B made a complaint. UKI said its decision regarding 
the claim remained the same but it did recognise there had been some poor service during 
the handling of the claim and offered £75 to compensate Mr and Mrs B for this.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter 
but didnt uphold the complaint. She found that the policy only provided cover for cutting 
short the trip, there was no cover in place if it was extended. And she thought it was fair for 
UKI to consider the claim as a travel delay as their return home was technically delayed. She 
also thought that the offer of £75 that UKI had made to the consumer for the poor service 
was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view. They said the only flight options 
available to them would have meant an extended journey, involving connecting flights and 
having to travel on public transport when they got back to the UK. And they didnt feel 
comfortable returning back to the UK on flights that were likely to be busy and thought it 
would be safer for them to wait. So, they made the decision to remain abroad. As no 
agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, what I need to consider is whether UKI has 
acted fairly when reaching its decision on Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Insurers set out what events they will and wont cover in the terms and conditions of the 
policy. They are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for a premium) but 
the policy does need to make the position clear to the policyholder. A policy may not cover 
every single eventuality.
The policy Mr and Mrs B hold includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. 
The relevant parts are as follows:
Cutting Short Your Trip (after your trip has started)
This section provides cover if you need to cut short your trip. Please contact our 
emergency assistance service as soon as reasonably possible if you are outside 
your home area and you need to cut short your trip.
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if 
you have to cut your trip short, including:
Unused commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.
Unused car hire.
Unused excursions and activities.
Unused kennel, cattery or professional pet sitter costs.
Unused car parking costs.
If you have to return home early and you cant use your return tickets we will pay 
reasonable costs for additional accommodation and travel.
The value of used points or miles if you booked your flight or accommodation using 
Avios or a similar promotional scheme.
I think the policy terms above make it clear that UKI only covers additional expenses a 
policyholder might incur if they have to return home early. In this case, Mr and Mrs B didnt 
cut short their trip  in fact, they extended their trip due to the Covid-19 outbreak. And the 
additional expenses they incurred are as a result of staying abroad for longer than theyd 
planned. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude Mr and Mrs Bs costs 
werent covered by this section of the policy.
Whilst there is no cover under this section of the policy, UKI did agree to consider the claim if 
Mr and Mrs B had made attempts to return home early but were unable to do so. I think this 
is the right thing to do, considering the unusual and unprecedented situation being faced by 
many at this time due to the pandemic. Mr and Mrs B have said they felt it would be safer for 
them to remain abroad, rather than having to travel back to the UK on potentially crowded 
flights. They have also said that the flight options werent direct to the UK  they would have 
had to obtain a connecting flight. So, on this basis they didnt look to return home early. 
Ive thought about what they have said very carefully, and I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs 
reluctance to travel on these earlier flights. However, I must take into account that there 
were options available to them to return home earlier than they did but it was Mr and Mrs Bs 
choice to remain abroad, therefore incurring additional costs for their accommodation. On 
this basis, Im not persuaded it is fair to instruct UKI to pay the claim for their extended stay 
when it is possible these costs could have been avoided. Having looked at the remaining terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy, it doesnt 
appear that there is any other section which would provide cover for their expenses. 
However, I note that UKI has agreed to consider the claim under the travel delay section, 
which is limited to £500. It isnt clear if Mr and Mrs B have accepted this offer previously but 
if they would now like this payment to be made, I would suggest they contact UKI to make 
the necessary arrangements.
UKI has also offered a total of £75 in compensation for delays and poor service it provided to 
Mr and Mrs B. I can see that there have been some delays in handling the claim and that 
UKI asked Mr and Mrs B to provide additional information which turned out to be 
unnecessary. 
I can appreciate how frustrating this must have been for Mr and Mrs B. I think UKI could 
have handled the situation better by keeping Mr and Mrs B more informed. But I must also 
bear in mind that UKI was dealing with an unprecedented situation. Covid-19 has had a 
significant impact on the travel insurance industry given the number of customers whose 
travel plans were impacted by the disruption to travel. And so, I dont think its unreasonable 
that this had some impact on their normal levels of service. 
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that the sum of £75 that UKI has offered in 
compensation for the customer service issues is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman