DRN-3587246
Complaint
Miss F is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) refuses to provide her with a 
current account.
Background
In December 2021, Miss F was told shed successfully opened a current account with RBS. 
However, a few days later RBS sent Miss F a letter telling her that after carrying out its final 
checks it was no longer prepared to offer her an account. Miss F was unhappy with this and 
complained. RBS didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. As Miss F remained dissatisfied, Miss F 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Fs concerns. She didnt think that RBS had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss F unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that RBS acted unfairly towards Miss F 
and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Miss Fs December 2021 application wasnt her first attempt to open an account with RBS. 
Indeed, the information Ive been provided with shows that this application was Miss Fs 
ninth attempt to open an account with RBS in less than three months and the previous eight 
applications had been declined. So its fair to say that Miss F ought to have realised that she 
was making this application in circumstances where there was a strong possibility her 
application would be unsuccessful.
As our adjudicator explained to Miss F, a bank is under no obligation to offer an account to a 
consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And, after completing its final checks, RBS decided it 
didnt wish to have Miss F as a customer. Miss F may be unhappy. However, closing a 
customers account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And it has no 
obligation to share its reasons for that decision.
Nonetheless, Miss F has been told to check her credit report and RBS has directed her to 
how she can do this, for further details on the information RBS is likely to have seen when 
carrying out its final checks. So Im satisfied that RBS has taken reasonable steps for Miss F 
to understand why it isnt prepared to offer her an account at this stage. 
I realise that RBS decision will have been very disappointing to Miss F. I suspect that theres 
an element of disappointment as Miss F believed that this application would be successful in 
the way that the others werent, as RBS initially agreed to offer an account, only to 
subsequently find out RBS still wasnt prepared to offer her account. I also understand that 
Miss F may well have a valid reason for wanting to bank with RBS rather than the bank shes 
currently with. But despite all of this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell RBS it has 
to offer Miss F an account in circumstances where it has legitimately decided shes not 
entitled to have one. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that RBS acted unfairly towards 
Miss F and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Miss F as it is abundantly clear that she wishes to bank with RBS notwithstanding everything 
that has happened. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell 
appreciate why I cant compel RBS to offer her an account in the way that she wants me to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman