DRN-2276390
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) when ordering 
a credit card.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here, and the facts arent in dispute. So Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Lloyds made repeated errors  such as sending the card to the 
wrong address, then sending the wrong type of card, and providing poor service in 
branch. What Im considering is: what impact did this have on Mr H? Does Lloyds 
need to do anything more to address this?
Mr H says Lloyds agreed to freeze the first £200 of his overdraft while he was waiting 
for his credit card. Thats different to agreeing to give him £200. But I agree that it did 
delay him accessing the credit card. Therefore, he may have needed to spend more 
on his current account. Lloyds has refunded all the interest and charges he incurred 
on this account during the relevant period. It also refunded his travel costs getting to 
branch. Im satisfied this fairly addresses the financial loss he suffered due to Lloyds 
errors. 
I appreciate that Lloyds errors also caused Mr H distress and inconvenience. Its 
paid him a total of £300 compensation for this. Thinking holistically about the overall 
distress and inconvenience caused, Im satisfied that £300 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. This reflects the effort Mr H had to expend resolving the matter as 
well as the upset Lloyds caused him. As Mr H is aware, it also reflects that our 
service doesnt make punitive awards  and that complaint handling doesnt fall 
within our jurisdiction.  
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Hs frustration, Im satisfied Lloyds has already 
offered a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt need to take further action to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman