DRN-2821494
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) trading as 
Mercedes-Benz Finance has applied end of contract charges for damages to his car 
following the voluntary termination of his hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In January 2018, Mr A acquired a brand-new car which he financed through a 36 month hire 
purchase agreement with MBFS. The cash price of the car was around £39,700.
In December 2020, Mr A voluntarily terminated the agreement and returned the car to 
MBFS. As part of their return process, they inspected and appraised the car in line with their 
vehicle return standards and they said damage was found to three wheels. They sent an 
invoice to Mr A for a total amount of £330 (£110 per wheel) which he was required to pay. Mr 
A was unhappy with this as he felt the car had been returned in a reasonable condition given 
it had been in his possession for three years, he also said that he had travelled only 31,000 
miles when the agreement allowed him to do 45,000 miles. He said MBFS should take this 
into consideration as he didnt believe the charges were fair.
Mr A complained to MBFS. They maintained the car was inspected as part of their return 
standards as outlined in the terms of the agreement and a further copy was sent six months 
before the end of the lease meaning Mr A had the opportunity to familiarise himself with 
them and arrange for the necessary repairs to be carried out before returning the car. They 
also said they dont offer an incentive for cars that are returned under the mileage permitted 
by the agreement. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr A referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They believed the damage to the three wheels were 
beyond fair wear and tear and said it was fair for MBFS to apply the end of contract charges. 
Mr A disagreed.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint, Ill explain why.
Ive considered the terms of Mr As hire purchase agreement which he agreed to in January 
2018 when he acquired the car. It says when the car is returned, it should be in good, clean 
condition and meet MBFS vehicle return standards. It outlines the return standards including 
those relating to the wheels and tyres. If the car doesnt meet the standards, the terms say 
Mr A will have to pay costs to either repair/refurbish the car or the consequent reduction in 
the sale value. 
On this basis, the agreement allows MBFS to apply end of contract charges if Mr As car 
doesnt meet their return standards. While their return standards are a key consideration, 
Ive also considered the guidance of the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). It is used industry wide to assess damage when cars have been returned as part 
of the hire purchase agreement.
MBFS return standards say scuff or chips marks up to 25mm is acceptable, meanwhile the 
BVRLAs standards say scuff marks up to 50mm is acceptable. This means anything above 
these measurements wouldnt be considered acceptable. 
Ive carefully considered the vehicle appraisal report which was completed when Mr As car 
was inspected. Based on the photographs of the three wheels in question, that is, the left 
front wheel, left rear wheel and right front wheel, I can see there are a number of scuff marks 
around each one. Based on the number of them and the approximate size, Im satisfied they 
are beyond what MBFS and the BVLRA consider to be reasonable wear and tear. 
While I note Mr As comments that he travelled less than the miles permitted by the finance 
agreement, this doesnt impact the end of contract charges for the damage to the wheels.
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied the damage to the three wheels goes beyond 
reasonable wear and tear and falls below the standards as set out by MBFSs return 
standards and the BVLRA guidance. Therefore MBFS are entitled to charge Mr A for them in 
line with their return standards.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman