DRN-4379783
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has not refunded her in full 
after she became the victim of a romance scam. 
 
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 22 September 2023 covered 
the details of Ms Cs testimony. But in summary in May 2019 Ms C fell victim to a romance 
scam. Between 14 May 2019 and 19 August 2019 Ms C transferred a total of £84,800 to the 
scammers account (scam one). On 12 September 2019 Nationwide stopped a payment for 
£1,500 and blocked Ms Cs account. In March 2020, Ms Cs account was unblocked. 
Between 2 April 2021 and 21 March 2022 Ms C made a total of £22,239.70 to genuine 
cryptocurrency accounts in her own name and funds were then forwarded to the scammer 
from there (scam two).
In 2022 Nationwide refunded 50% of Ms Cs losses from scam one. However, it considered it 
wasnt liable for the payments to cryptocurrency  as these transfers were to accounts in Ms 
Cs own name and the loss happened from there.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She concluded that any intervention from 
Nationwide would not have made a difference. 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 November 2023. Ms C accepted my decision. 
Nationwide did not. It said:
It first made Ms C aware of its scam concerns in September 2019 when her account 
was blocked. Whilst it cant evidence that the Banking Protocol was carried out, Ms C 
was in branch when an analyst told branch staff this was required. Ms C refers to 
speaking to the police.
It did block Ms Cs account for six months and whilst it accepts the questioning and 
scam education on the call before the blocks were removed were not sufficient, Ms C 
knew Nationwides concerns and she acknowledged she was the victim of a scam 
but continued to send money to the scammer. Ms C did this by sending money via 
her other bank account and via cryptocurrency presumably as she thought it was less 
likely to flag with Nationwide.
Despite knowing that Nationwide held concerns, Ms C continued to send money, 
putting herself at financial detriment. Ms C sent a further £22,239 via the crypto 
account and £76,108 to her other bank account and then most, if not all, on to the 
scammer, in addition to any funds she sent which originated from her other bank 
account.
Ms Cs other bank refunded part or all of her losses - implying it was also at fault. 
These payments would also have been a contributory factor towards the overall 
impact this scam had had on Ms C and her family.
If Ms C had to sell her house to pay debts as a result of sending money to the 
scammer, why did she send further money when this must have put a significant 
strain on her finances.
I noted in my provisional decision that the scammer was the cause of Ms Cs loss 
and impact. It cant know Ms Cs condition or her daughters condition were due to 
Nationwide not refunding her in 2019.
As highlighted in the decision there were multiple red flags. Before continuing to 
make the payments, her account was blocked for six months which is a significant 
amount of time and should have highlighted the strength of its concern.
Ms C wanted to continue making payments, ignoring concerns from Nationwide and 
her family, misleading Nationwide in order to have blocks removed from her account 
and changing the account she sent the money from in order to avoid detection. As 
such it believes its unlikely that any further education in 2019 or 2020 would have 
stopped the ongoing payments.
Had it refunded £42,400 in 2019, as Ms C was still under the spell of the scammer, 
she likely would have experienced more losses, as further funds could have been 
sent.
Its not clear enough to say that Nationwides actions alone have caused Ms C to be 
defrauded a second time or that Nationwides actions alone have caused the 
significant level of distress Ms C has sadly found herself in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Nationwides further comments and responded to those points I consider 
material to this decision within my final decision. Overall, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. I have concluded that the fair and reasonable 
outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint in part. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
I am so sorry to hear all that has happened to Ms C  not just the scam itself but also her 
financial and health situation too and the impact all of this is having on her. 
There is no dispute that Ms C has been a victim of a scam and I am deeply sorry for that, but 
it doesnt automatically mean Nationwide is liable for some or all of her losses. In fact, the 
relevant regulations (and the terms of her account) make her responsible for payments shes 
made herself in the first instance. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Ms C authorised the payments. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank or building society to 
reimburse the customer even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) Nationwide has 
signed up to. Where payments arent covered by the Code (the first three transactions on 
scam one predate the CRM Code and payments under scam two are not covered), Ive 
considered Nationwides wider obligations outside the CRM Code to protect Ms C from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Scam one
Nationwide accepted 50% responsibility for the payments in scam one. The first three 
payments are not covered by the CRM Code but Nationwide still had obligations to be on the 
lookout for signs of financial harm.
Nationwide concluded that the payments were consistently high and would have been 
unusual spend for the member. I agree the activity was unusual for the account  which 
historically (throughout 2019) had not had such large credits and debits entering or exiting 
the account. As Nationwide considers intervention should have happened from the outset, 
interest should be from the date of each transaction and not from the date of claim as 
Nationwide has confirmed it has done.
Did Ms C have a reasonable basis for belief or could Ms C have done more to mitigate her 
losses?
Nationwide has only refunded 50% of the transactions. It feels that one of the exceptions to 
reimbursement under the CRM Code applies or that Ms C could have done more to prevent 
her losses. 
One such circumstance in which a bank or building society might decline a full refund is, if it 
can be demonstrated that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable 
basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
Similarly, outside of the CRM Code it may be fair and reasonable for a deduction to be made 
if the consumer could have done more to mitigate their losses.
I need to consider not just whether Ms C believed she was sending money to help someone 
she thought she was in a relationship with but whether it was reasonable for her to do so. 
Ive thought about the steps Ms C took to reassure herself about the legitimacy of the 
transactions and whether it was reasonable for her to proceed with the payments. 
Ms C ultimately placed a lot of trust in a stranger who she had never met (and had only 
recently met online). I consider that Ms C ought to have had greater concerns and that, in 
turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of scrutiny on her part. Sending money to 
someone you havent met in person was always a big risk. Ms C would have had time 
between messages to reflect on what was being asked of her. Some of the requests seem 
strange and it seems Ms Cs own father started to question the situation and the amount of 
money needed seemed to be changing from one email to another. Promises of returned 
funds were not forthcoming. Ms C wasnt, in my view, under immediate pressure to proceed 
with the various payments and had time to check things out further.My intention is not to further Ms Cs distress where shes already been the victim of a cruel 
fraud. But merely to highlight that I do find Nationwide has been able to demonstrate that 
she could have done more to verify the validity of the person she was communicating with 
and the proposals they were making. And this would have ultimately prevented her own 
losses.
Delay in paying scam one
Nationwide has not been able to explain why the case for scam one was not concluded in 
2019. Its internal investigation notes suggest This case was deemed a customer loss 
because-Decision - 07/11/2019. If it did reach an outcome that it wasnt liable  this does 
not appear to have been communicated with Ms C at that time and she certainly wasnt 
given a formal final response letter or opportunity to appeal Nationwides decision to decline 
her claim. 
On 31 December 2019, during a telephone call, Ms C asked Nationwide about being able to 
claim for an APP scam. The call handler told Ms C she is liable as she made the payments. 
But as Nationwide knows  that is not the end of the story - as banks and building societies 
have wider obligations; not least because Nationwide is signed up to the CRM Code. Ms Cs 
question about being able to make a claim during this call was not adequately responded to 
or answered.
Nationwide reached a different conclusion in 2022 and accepted 50% responsibility here. I 
think that was a fair and reasonable conclusion to reach but I think it ought to have reached 
this conclusion in 2019. 
When Nationwide did intervene, did it do enough? 
I appreciate some scam education seems to have been carried out with Ms C following the 
blocking of her account in 2019. I say this because there is some indication that the 
incredibly strong spell she was under may have been broken - as she acknowledged in a 
couple of the calls that she understood and said she wouldnt make further payments. 
But I think the spell was strong and Nationwide only needs to revisit the call of 17 September 
2019 to hear that Ms C genuinely believed the story she had been given by the scammer 
(and freely relayed to Nationwide) and was firmly under the scammers spell at this point. It 
was clear to Nationwide this story was a typical romance scam scenario as during the same 
call there is an internal conversation with the fraud department where the certainty this was a 
scam was acknowledged. During this call, the call handler did not relay the fraud 
departments concerns or provide any warnings, nor did the fraud department offer to speak 
directly to Ms C to see if they could break the spell. Instead - it was left for Ms C to go to 
branch (as I understand it  so that the Banking Protocol could be evoked).  
Nationwide accepts it should have invoked the Banking Protocol and accepts it cant 
evidence this was done. I have revisited the evidence including the call with Ms C on 14 
November 2019 and I think it is possible it was invoked the previous day on 13 November 
2019 (although internal investigation notes contradict that this happened):
Despite a request for banking protocol on the 5th November 2019 (the need for this 
reiterated on 13th November 2019), to be actioned prior to online banking blocks being lifted, 
there is no evidence we have likely missed the opportunity early on, to intervene with the 
member during a time when she was extremely susceptible to further and/or continued 
exploitation. In addition, we have not offered sufficient education and reaffirmation to the 
dangers and prevalence of romance scams during this time to satisfy that this took place.It does seem however, from Ms Cs own comment during this call  there was a police visit. 
Whether this was part of the Banking Protocol or because she had reported the matter to 
Action Fraud  is unclear. That said, it was another four months before Ms C called to ask 
for her account to be unblocked and - at this critical point - Nationwide accept that 
insufficient questions and scam education were carried out before unblocking the 
consumers account.
Even if Banking Protocol had been invoked, I think what happened in the intervening period 
(between 13 November 2019 and 19 March 2020) is crucial to the outcome of this case.
Evidence of financial vulnerability in 2019
I appreciate Nationwide have subsequently refunded Ms C 50% of her losses from 2019 on 
the basis that it did not do enough. But I think Nationwides inaction left Ms C vulnerable to 
the subsequent scam in 2021 - and Nationwides own internal evaluation quoted above 
recognises that. 
During calls throughout November 2019 and December 2019, Ms C was in financial crisis. 
In response to my provisional decision, Nationwide has not commented at all on the financial 
crisis alarms which Ms C raised with it during these calls whilst the account was blocked. In 
particular I noted in my provisional decision that she had told Nationwide her financial 
situation is at a crisis and she was not able to pay bills. This was a vulnerability I think 
Nationwide has underestimated.
In addition, Nationwide compounded this vulnerability by not adequately dealing with her 
claim at the relevant time.  This further exacerbated Ms Cs financial crisis. Ms C has said 
her account only remained blocked for six months because Nationwide forgot about her. I 
have to say  I have some sympathy with her strength of feeling about that. From what I 
have seen there was no contact between her financial crisis call on 31 December 2019 and 
the call on 19 March 2020 asking for her account to be unblocked.
Ms C was vulnerable not only because she had already fallen victim to a romance scam, but 
she was in financial difficulty. This left her even more vulnerable and desperate to get her 
money back.
 
Nationwide were aware or ought reasonably to have been aware that Ms C was extremely 
vulnerable and was at risk of falling victim to a further scam or even back into the scammers 
hands - as she ultimately did. 
In my view Nationwide not only ought reasonably to have been aware of those vulnerabilities 
 it actually compounded them and consequently left her open to further exploitation. I think 
Nationwide has underestimated the impact of this. 
In particular it added to those vulnerabilities by: 
not sufficiently questioning and providing scam education before unblocking the 
account. Given the lapse in time and doubt over whether it did carry out the Banking 
Protocol it needed to do much more to satisfy itself of Ms Cs position/understanding 
before unblocking her account.
It also exacerbated Ms Cs financial vulnerability by 
not responding to her cries for financial help 
not refunding her in 2019 (or at the very least communicating its decision to fully 
decline the case thereby allowing her to appeal that decision) Scam two 
I dont intend to consider the funds transferred to Ms Cs other bank account. I am aware 
there has been a refund by her other bank for some or all of Ms Cs losses relating to the 
scam. But I dont think that automatically means Nationwide shouldnt be on the lookout for 
signs that Ms C might be at continued risk of financial harm - especially knowing what it 
knew about her vulnerabilities at this point and more generally its knowledge of romance 
scams. I think transferring money to an account in ones own name elsewhere is a potential 
sign. As Nationwide know  this is a tactic by vulnerable victims to avoid detection and 
Nationwide ought to have been alert to that possibility here. That said, I wouldnt expect 
Nationwide to get involved in every transaction and the transactions to her other bank 
account werent particularly large or unusual.  
 
Cryptocurrency transactions 
I appreciate the losses did not occur directly from Ms Cs Nationwide account and these 
transactions arent covered by the CRM Code. But Nationwide has wider obligations outside 
of the CRM Code. So, I dont agree that Nationwide is not liable simply because the money 
was transferred to a cryptocurrency account in Ms Cs name and the fraud then happened 
from there. 
Nationwide had a responsibility to be on the lookout for unusual activity and protect 
consumers from financial harm. As a financial services professional, I think Nationwide 
would have been aware at the time that fraudsters use genuine firms offering cryptocurrency 
as a way of defrauding customers and that these scams often involve money passing 
through more than one account. Cryptocurrency scams had been increasing in frequency 
and both the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had published specific 
warnings about these scams in 2018. In my view, by the time of these transactions, 
Nationwide had had time to understand these warnings and be on the lookout for fraud using 
cryptocurrency.
This - coupled with what it already knew about Ms C; her extremely vulnerable state which 
left her exposed to falling victim to further scams - I think was something Nationwide ought 
very much to have been alert to and concerned about and it ought to have stepped in to 
prevent further losses. 
Ms C says that if Nationwide had acted accordingly in 2019 and refunded her the 50% of her 
loss as it did in 2022, the events that occurred after this time would not have happened. She 
says she would not have had to sell her house to pay debts. She says she might not have 
suffered from Multiple Sclerosis (a condition she believes is triggered by stress). And she 
says she would not have continued to give this person money on their promise that she 
would get it all back. It is clear to me from all that she has said that her actions that followed 
were a desperate attempt to get her life and home back.
Whilst there may have been other contributory factors here, in terms of the cryptocurrency 
losses  these do (in my view) stem predominately from Nationwides inactions as 
highlighted in detail above. In particular it was aware Ms C was vulnerable and it 
compounded that vulnerability  exposing her to further exploitation.
I therefore feel it is fair and reasonable for Nationwide to refund all the transactions from Ms 
Cs Nationwide account that were made to cryptocurrency. 
I think its more likely than not that these transactions would not have occurred had 
Nationwide not left Ms C vulnerable to falling back into the scammers hands by its inaction in 2019. 
Ms C queried the cryptocurrency transactions the investigator originally considered. I have 
been through the bank statements, and I outlined all the transactions in question in my 
provisional decision. There were two credits which came from fraudulent funds which should 
be deducted. This totalled £19,824.70. Neither party has disputed this.
Distress and convenience
Deciding on an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience, isnt an exact 
science. And I dont have the power to make a punitive award against Nationwide. It is also 
not intended to compensate for any actual financial loss a consumer has experienced. 
As a consequence of these scams, Ms C says she has been disowned by her parents, her 
daughter is suffering from an eating disorder and Ms C herself has Multiple Sclerosis which 
she considers to be due to the stress caused by these events. Ms C feels Nationwide turned 
its back on her four years ago. Ms C says she has had to sell her property to repay debts 
and is now homeless. Nationwides own 2022 fraud notes indicate it was aware of Ms Cs 
severe vulnerabilities and I do think Nationwide is accountable for some of the impact all of 
this has had on her.
But I need to carefully consider the impact Nationwides mistakes have made, not those of 
the other parties involved here. Most significantly, this means attempting to discount the 
actions of the fraudster, who was ultimately the party who committed this fraud on Ms C and, 
as such, was the direct cause of Ms Cs losses and the subsequent impact.
I do think this is a case where Nationwides mistakes have caused sustained distress to Ms 
C, exacerbated her financial difficulties and potentially affected Ms Cs health  all of which 
has caused severe disruption to her life over the last four years. In view of the circumstances 
of this case I think an award of £3,000 fairly reflects the impact Nationwides inactions have 
had on Ms C.
I have noted Nationwides response to my provisional decision, but I had, before issuing my 
decision, already taken into account that more than one party was involved here  that had 
already factored into my decision making. There were other parties involved  not least the 
scammer himself and Ms Cs other bank. So, Im not changing the amount Im awarding for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Ms C does mention wanting an apology  this is not something I can award but it is a 
request Id like to make to Nationwide. 
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society needs to put things right for Ms C as follows:
Amend the interest it paid on scam one to reflect that in 2022 8% simple interest1 
should have been paid from the date of each transaction to date of settlement in 
2022. The difference between this figure and what was actually paid in interest in 
2022 represents a crystallised loss from 2022. 8% simple interest1 should then be 
added to the crystallised loss in 2022 to the date of final settlement.
Refund all the transactions to cryptocurrency less two transactions that came from 
fraudsters/werent Ms Cs funds  so £19,824.70. Nationwide should also pay simple 
1 If Nationwide is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Ms C a tax deduction 
certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.interest on that sum at 8% per annum from the date of loss to the date of refund1. 
This is because Ms C has been deprived of these funds as a result of the scam. 
Pay £3,000 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. 
I am also asking Nationwide to apologise to Ms C.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and I require Nationwide Building Society 
to put things right for Ms C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman