DRN-3174492
Complaint
Mrs W says Santander UK PLC mis-sold her a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy 
with a credit card in the 1990s. The fact PPI was mis-sold isnt disputed, but Mrs W found it 
necessary to complain to our Service because Santander has since failed to pay her the 
redress she is owed.
Background
I see that one of our adjudicators provided both parties with a view about this complaint. The 
adjudicator said that they thought we should uphold the complaint because the redress 
ought to have been paid by now as Mrs W had done everything shed been asked to do by 
Santander. They also said Santander should additionally pay Mrs W for the distress and 
inconvenience caused during her complaint.
Santander didnt agree with the adjudicator. So, as the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Having done this, Im upholding the complaint.
Overall, I think Santander has handled this complaint in an unreasonable manner and the 
delays caused have been completely unnecessary.
The sequence of events
At the outset, I think its fair to point out that as I understand Mrs W had been a customer of 
the bank for a while, I would expect that Santander would have held adequate records of her 
verified identity, her personal details, address and similar information. This becomes relevant 
later on.
Santander wrote to Mrs W in January 2021 after shed complained about being mis-sold the 
PPI and it agreed the policy had indeed been mis-sold to her. It calculated she was due (at 
that point in time) £2,371.55 for the mis-selling element and the associated interest. It asked 
Mrs W to fill out an acceptance form and return it, after which it would issue payment.
Santander says Mrs W didnt do this and that it had to write to her twice reminding her of this 
requirement. However, Mrs W says she did return the acceptance form more or less straight-
away and Ive seen some contemporaneous notes she made which say she posted it on 27 
January 2021, a few days after the Santander offer of payment letter.
I also note the two reminder letters Santander says it sent to Mrs W (on 15 and 25 February 
2021) both specifically said that if shed already sent the acceptance form back, then to 
ignore these reminders. 
In the weeks that followed, still no payment was made to Mrs W and she says she had to 
telephone Santander to chase things up. As well as calling Santander, Mrs W sent a letter to 
the bank, a copy of which Ive been shown. Mrs W then had to complain to our Service 
because still nothing was being done to get the money she was owed back to her. 
Has Santander acted reasonably?
When our adjudicator became involved he obtained from Mrs W a post office receipt of 
posting slip in relation to the above letter which Mrs W sent to Santander on 20 April 2021. 
He also obtained a delivery confirmation showing the letter had been received at 
Santanders offices the next day. In my view, these things represent compelling evidence in 
support of what Mrs W, rather than Santander, has been telling us about what happened.
Nevertheless, even in the face of this comprehensive evidence, the subsequent responses 
from Santander have been very poor indeed in my view, and have simply caused further and 
unnecessary delays in getting Mrs W paid. For example, having been given solid evidence 
that Mrs W did in fact send the acceptance form straight-away, its been very disappointing 
that Santander has stuck to its position that it wasnt ever received, nor does Santander 
concede that Mrs W made any phone calls to chase matters up. All this seems to be based 
(entirely) on Santanders own computerised customer contact log containing, it says, no 
details of either the letter or any calls.
Ive thought carefully about Santanders approach. 
It has been provided with verifiable evidence of Mrs W posting her letter of 20 April 2021 
chasing up the redress payment and confirming what shed done. Santander has also been 
provided with evidence, via ourselves, of the actual letter she drafted. 
However, most compellingly, Ive thought about the likelihood of a consumer who had gone 
to the effort of making a mis-sale complaint in the first place  and having been offered 
£2,371.55 in compensation for that mis-sale  then failing to fill out a simple form to get the 
redress paid. 
In my view, these circumstances point to Santander to being wrong in relying wholly on its 
customer log and to deny Mrs W had been trying to resolve the issue.
Not surprisingly, this has all caused Mrs W to wait even longer for a simple payment 
transaction from a bank that already has all the details it needs to carry out that function. Mrs 
W has subsequently sent more identity verification to further confirm her details.
In its latest response to our Service, it is regrettable that Santander has refused to consider 
the possibility of it having done anything wrong or the distress and inconvenience this will 
clearly have had on Mrs W, apparently a long-standing customer. And its been 
disappointing that Santander still says it made no errors - when there is overwhelming 
evidence that it most certainly has.
To be clear then, Santander has, in my view, prolonged this matter unnecessarily. The 
evidence very clearly demonstrates that it mis-sold her PPI. Then, having complained and 
then been offered redress, Mrs W returned the acceptance slip as she had been requested 
to do so. 
The evidence further supports that she had to chase up the business both by telephone calls 
and in writing. Mrs W - no doubt because of the problems shed endured with Santander - 
had the foresight to record her actions and use registered postal services to demonstrate 
what she had done.
My findings are that Santander most likely lost Mrs Ws redress acceptance reply. It then 
failed to properly log the phone calls she subsequently made and letter she sent regarding 
her redress. Santander also caused unnecessary and unreasonable delays which have 
resulted in her waiting for over a year for the redress, caused by Santanders mis-selling. 
Even after these failings came to light, Santander failed to acknowledge the obvious distress 
and time wasting it caused by its refusal to properly grip the complaint and sort it out.
What Santander should do nowSantander has already admitted it mis-sold the PPI policy to Mrs W. In January 2021 
it agreed to pay her £2,371.55 in redress, but it now needs re-calculate this to add 
8% interest up until the time it eventually pays her in full. 
Santander should clearly explain to Mrs W how it has re-calculated this new amount.
Santander should pay Mrs W £40 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
repeated failures in this complaint.
In the circumstances, Santander should expedite the above payment by contacting 
Mrs W directly and putting place specific arrangements to prevent any more mis-
understandings or failures in paying the money it owes to Mrs W.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs W a certificate showing 
how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Final decision
I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
I direct Santander UK PLC to promptly carry out the compensation payments as outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman