DRN-1135035
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has turned down a claim he made on his 
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, a section of Mr Bs lounge ceiling fell down. A plumber came out to look at 
what had happened. The plumber said the water tank above the ceiling had been leaking 
and that this may have caused the ceiling to collapse.
Mr B made an escape of water claim on his buildings insurance policy through his broker. 
Covea appointed a building surveyor to inspect the ceiling damage. 
The surveyor didnt think the leaking tank was the cause of the damage. He didnt think the 
damage he saw was consistent with a leaking cylinder. He said there was no moisture 
present or staining to the ceiling. He thought the damage had been caused by the ceiling 
materials breaking down. The surveyor did see some water damage to a bedroom ceiling 
and walls. But he thought this wasnt linked to the ceiling claim and was caused by a leak 
from the loft.
Based on the surveyors report, Covea turned down Mr Bs claim for the ceiling damage. It 
said the damage was caused by wear and tear, which isnt covered by the policy. It said that 
he could make a new claim for the bedroom damage if he wanted to.
Mr B was unhappy with Coveas decision. His representative asked us to look into his 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She thought the surveyors 
report showed there were no signs of damp where the ceiling had fallen down. So she didnt 
think the claim was covered by the escape of water section of the policy. And she thought 
that the breakdown of the ceiling materials wouldve happened over a period of time. She 
thought it was fair for Covea to say this was wear and tear. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. His representative said that a month had gone by 
between the ceiling falling in and the surveyor coming out to look at the damage. So the 
damp had dried by that point. He asked for an ombudsmans decision on Mr Bs complaint.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided it was fair 
for Covea to turn down Mr Bs claim. Ill explain why.
I know Mr B and his representative feel strongly that the ceiling came down because of 
damp. I can understand why they think this. After all, the plumber who first came out said he 
thought the damage couldve been caused by a leaking water tank. It seems the plumber thought the ceiling collapse couldve been down to an escape of water. And damage 
resulting from an escape of water is covered by Mr Bs policy.
Was the damage caused by an escape of water?
But for a claim to succeed, it needs to be shown that the damage happened because of one 
of the insured events listed in the policy (in this case, the insured event wouldve been an 
escape of water). Insurance policies dont usually cover every eventuality. Most policies set 
out what the insurer will and wont cover.
So for the claim to be accepted, the damage to Mr Bs ceiling needed to be caused by an 
insured event and covered by the policy. Covea instructed its surveyor to look at the damage 
to find out whatd caused it and if it would be covered. The surveyor decided the ceiling 
collapse wasnt down to an escape of water and that it was specifically excluded by the 
policy terms.
Ive carefully considered what both Mr Bs representative has said and the surveyors report. 
Ive thought about what the representatives told us about the plumbers initial comments and 
his own comments about the wetness of the ceiling when it came down. Its unfortunate that 
there arent any written comments from the plumber for me to look at. 
The surveyor wrote a detailed report. It included photographs of the damage and the testing 
he carried out to the ceiling during his visit. Ive looked carefully at the report. I can see from 
photos that the surveyor checked moisture readings across the house and especially around 
the damaged ceiling area. He also took a number of photos of the damage (together with the 
bedroom damage). The report says:
A leak from a cylinder is not consistent with the damage we have seen. There is no staining 
evident and no moisture present. The damage is consistent with a natural breakdown of 
materials.
Having looked at the photos of the damage and other parts of the property, I think there are 
a few signs of water damage to other areas. But I cant see evidence of water damage (like 
staining, or high moisture readings) where the ceiling came down, especially around the 
wooden beams which have been exposed. And the surveyor had the opportunity to carry out 
tests which showed there wasnt any moisture present in the damaged area. 
Mr Bs representative says that the ceiling was wet when it came down and that by the time 
the surveyor came out, the ceiling had dried. Ive thought about this. It looks like there was a 
delay of about three weeks after the incident before the broker let Covea know about the 
claim. And Covea asked the surveyor to inspect Mr Bs property fairly promptly. So I dont 
think the delay in inspecting the damage was down to Covea. 
Given the time thatd passed, its possible the ceiling had been wet when it came down. But 
the pieces thatd fallen had been taken away and there was no opportunity for them to be 
tested. Theres no record of whether t the fallen pieces were wet or not. So I dont think 
theres enough evidence for me to fairly say the ceiling was wet when it came down.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence Ive seen. It was open to Mr B  to get his own 
expert report about what had caused the damage. But he hasnt done so. This means the 
only expert written evidence I have to assess says the damage wasnt due to an insured 
event which would be covered by the policy. I find this evidence persuasive.
Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not than the damage wasnt caused by 
an escape of water from the leaking tank. Was it fair for Covea to treat the claim as wear and tear?
The surveyor said the damage was consistent with a natural breakdown of the ceiling 
materials. I understand the ceiling was made up of plaster and lath and the house was built 
about 120 years ago. Covea said this breakdown was wear and tear which is excluded by 
the policy terms. 
So Ive turned to look at the policy terms. The General Exclusions section of the policy lists 
the things Covea wont cover. Number 13 of this section says:
Loss or damage caused by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything which happens 
gradually. (Bold is my emphasis).
In the surveyors opinion, the ceiling damage was caused by the ceiling materials naturally 
breaking down. Having considered his report carefully, I think this was the most likely cause 
of the ceiling coming down. I think, on balance, its more likely than not that a breakdown of 
materials would happen over a gradual period. I think its unlikely that it wouldve been due 
to a sudden, one-off event of escape of water.
For this reason, I think it was fair for Covea to decide the claim was excluded by the policy 
terms.
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I dont think the damage was caused by a sudden 
escape of water. I think its most likely down to gradual breakdown of the ceiling materials 
over time. And so, I think it was fair for Covea to turn down Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman