DRN-3389155
The complaint
Mr D complains about the State Bank Of India (UK) Limited, referred to as the bank or the 
business. 
In summary, Mr D says:
An email he received from the bank regarding maturity of his investment didnt 
contain statutory corporate information  to help him to identify if it was genuinely 
from the bank or not  and now the bank doesnt have copy of it. 
He wasnt asked to provide identification when he visited the bank. 
He was told that a completed closure form wouldve been acceptable as his maturity 
instruction, but he wasnt given one. 
He found the banks process of ringing another branch  and that branch not taking 
him through the verification process before processing his request  unreasonable.
The bank didnt tell him about moving his maturing funds into the Easy Access Saver 
Account (savings account) with the bank. 
What happened
Mr D and his wife (Mrs D) each held an Individual Fixed Rate Bond (referred to as the bond 
or the investment) with the bank that was due to mature in March 2021.  
I note the bank initially sent maturity letters to each of them informing them that the deposits 
were due for renewal and they needed to contact the bank or send an email about what they 
wanted to do.  
In February 2021, Mrs D sent a message to the bank  through the online portal/secure 
message  requesting to withdraw her deposit upon maturity and transfer out. In the 
complaint form to our service Mrs D explained she didnt want to stay invested and wanted 
the bank to pay the maturing funds into her nominated account. 
I understand that the bank subsequently called Mrs D and told her that shed need to provide 
instructions in writing to the branch, enclosing self-certified ID documents, as was its process 
to confirm her instructions. 
Mrs D wasnt comfortable sending her instructions and/or documents in the post so said she 
would send Mr D to a branch, with the relevant instructions and documentation.   
I understand that at this point the bank wasnt aware of Mr Ds intentions to also want to 
withdraw his deposit like Mrs D and pay into an account with another bank. 
In any case, Mr D visited the City of London branch and made a withdrawal request on 
behalf of himself and Mrs D. 
Unfortunately, there was an issue with Mrs Ds signature so the bank couldnt proceed with 
the request. Based on what it says, it seems Mrs Ds signature didnt match the signature 
held on file. 
I also note that because Mr D held his deposit with a local branch, it called him to verify 
instructions and complete due diligence. It seems this was initiated by the branch he was 
visiting. 
I note Mr D says that during the visit he was told that he could complete a maturity 
instruction form as part of his instructions, but the bank says this isnt correct and no such 
form/facility exists. 
Mr Ds also unhappy about other related issues including the level of due diligence 
completed by his local branch after it called him to verify his instructions.  
Frustrated with the entire experience, Mr D (and Mrs D) complained to the business. 
In short, Mr D and Mrs D say that they werent aware of the terms and conditions which state 
that the matured funds could be paid into the banks savings account, from where they could 
pay the money into their nominated account. Whilst they accept that they were paid the 
money on time, theyre both unhappy about the hassle of going into branch during the height 
of covid-19 and being given incorrect advice. 
The bank separated the complaint from Mr D and Mrs D and didnt uphold either. In respect 
of Mr Ds complaint in summary it made the following key points:
Upon maturity a customer has the option to re-invest or transfer their money out. 
Depending on the decision, additional documents are needed, and the maturity letter 
directs a customer to contact the branch for further guidance. 
There was no prior discussion regarding Mr Ds investment until he visited branch, on 
behalf of Mrs D, and expressed his wish to transfer out the matured funds. 
In his instruction letter dated 25 February 2021, Mr D attached a copy of his driving 
license as proof of ID  signed, dated, and verified. So, it doesnt agree that Mr D 
didnt know what he had to do regarding ID.  
An automated email was sent to customers whose investments were nearing 
maturity. It will feedback Mr Ds comments  regarding whether (or not) it looked 
authentic  to the relevant department, so it can take necessary action. 
It doesnt have the process of issuing maturity instruction forms however it does 
accept written instructions from customers and thats what it asked Mr D to provide.  
In line with its process, Mr Ds home branch needed to process his maturity 
instructions. He was asked to call his local branch in case he needed an update. 
The City of London branch where he visited referred his instructions to his local 
branch internally. He was then called on 4 March 2021, at approximately 14:55, 
where security questions like his full home address and account balance were 
confirmed. Since the bank had the required documents and he had already visited a 
branch of the bank, enhanced due diligence wasnt necessary.    
Unhappy with the banks response in due course Mr D referred his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The maturity letter made clear the need to provide timely instructions, and the 
consequences of failing to do so. 
It also made clear the interest rates and the availability of the terms and conditions 
online.  
As an alternative the bank also gave Mr D (and Mrs D) the option to email, call or visit a branch of the bank if they didnt want to re-invest their money. 
The bank called Mr D after it received instructions dated 25 February 2021, 
instructing it to pay the maturity value into an account with another business. 
Mr D was unaware that he could keep his maturity value in a savings account with 
the bank.  
But the business has done nothing wrong by not proceeding (immediately) with Mr 
Ds instructions during his visit to branch. 
The bank has provided feedback to the relevant department in relation to Mr Ds 
concerns about the email he received from the bank and not being able to identify if it 
was genuine or not.   
Despite what Mr D says about being told that he could fill out a maturity instruction 
form, the bank has confirmed that no such form exists, but Mr D could provide 
instructions in writing which is what he did. 
Whilst its not entirely clear what happened when Mr D visited the branch, its unlikely 
that he wouldve been told to fill out a form if one didnt exist. Its possible that there 
was a miscommunication, otherwise Mr D wouldve requested a form rather than 
simply complaining about it. 
Mr Ds unhappy that he was initially asked to contact another branch, despite 
opening his investment online. The call took place on 4 March 2021, during which Mr 
D was taken through a basic due diligence since hed already visited a branch. 
Mr D was dealt with differently to Mrs Ds request because the background to the two 
requests were different. 
We dont have the power to tell the business to change how it runs its affairs. If Mr D 
remains unhappy, he could refer his complaint to the industry regulator the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).  
Mr D made his instructions clear from the outset. If he wanted to discuss the 
possibility of keeping his maturity value with the bank, it wouldve assisted him. 
The terms and conditions, accessible online, made clear what Mr D could do, 
depending on what he wanted.   
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following key points:
He went to branch because he was told/forced to, in order to provide ID documents 
that he was unhappy about sending in the post. It wasnt his decision.  
There was no miscommunication and he was told to fill out a form, until someone 
else came in and said there was no form. He doesnt understand why the investigator 
is doubting his account. In any case, he only went into the bank to provide the 
documentation. 
He hasnt complained about having to contact the branch despite opening his 
account online. He asked about an acknowledgment and was told he had to contact 
the branch and doesnt understand why the bank couldnt have just written to him to 
confirm receipt of his instruction and documentation.    
The branch called him, but he wasnt taken through any security. The fact that he 
visited another branch is immaterial. 
He wasnt told what the terms and conditions said, so the banks behaviour could 
hardly have been in line with it. 
The investigator needs to refer to Mr Ds wifes complaint here. Her enquiry was what 
to do if she didnt want to renew her bond  it wasnt please transfer my money to a 
particular current account. 
He only wrote his instruction letter in the terms he did, because he was told to.
He wanted to hold off until his wifes complaint had been dealt with.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on balance I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same 
reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr D says, in the circumstances 
Im unable safely say that the bank behaved unreasonably by not voluntarily drawing his 
attention to its savings account, notwithstanding Mrs Ds initial communication with the bank 
and Mr Ds subsequent specific instructions to transfer his deposit into an account with 
another bank.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.                                
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case  Im 
mindful theres much correspondence between the parties. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Mr D and the bank, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In the circumstances, I dont think the business has done anything wrong by dealing with Mr 
Ds and Mrs Ds complaints separately. Its a matter for the business how it deals with 
complaints from a couple that individually held (identical) products. Whilst there were 
overlapping issues, Im also mindful that each of their complaints has aspects that were 
unique to the individual complaint, so it was probably sensible to deal with Mr D and Mrs D 
separately. 
In this case Im satisfied that Mr D officially instructed the bank (in writing) to pay the maturity 
value into an account held with another bank. Im satisfied that Mr D acted on his own 
volition, probably in consultation with Mrs D. So, in the circumstances I cant blame the bank 
for not questioning his instructions or (voluntarily) suggesting that he could keep his money 
in the banks savings account. 
In other words, on balance I dont think the bank was obliged to question Mr Ds instructions 
 which were reasonably clear and unequivocal  and offer an alternative course of action 
because I dont think there was a need to. So, in this instance I cant say that the bank has 
done anything wrong by not doing so.
I note the contents of Mr Ds instruction letter dated 25 February 2021 which made clear the 
following:
I refer to my bond (details attached) which matures on 11 March. I understand that you 
need my maturity instructions in writing. I would like to withdraw my funds on maturity and for 
the monies to be sent to my current account (in my name) with (bank name anonymised):I also attach a copy of my driving licence signed by myself, as requested.
I should be grateful if you would acknowledge receipt as soon as possible and confirm the 
position.
If Mr D had asked  either himself or through Mrs D  whether he could transfer his funds 
into the banks savings account or indicated a preference to do so, Im confident the 
business wouldve given him the appropriate answer.  
Im mindful that Mr D (and Mrs D) were adamant that they didnt want to provide 
instructions/documentation in the post which probably meant their options were limited in 
terms of how to progress matters. So, in the circumstances I dont agree that Mr D was 
forced to visit a branch with his and Mrs Ds instructions and documentation, as he had other 
options. 
I note in the complaint form Mrs D said they had an Easy Access Savings Account which 
they were told they had to have to make the investment. I also note its where Mr D and Mrs 
D initially paid their respective monies into before it was invested in the separate bonds. So, 
in the circumstances it could be argued that Mr D ought reasonably to have known from the 
outset this is where he could return the matured proceeds before deciding what to do with 
the money. 
In any case, I note the terms and conditions, available online and referred to by the business 
in its correspondence with Mr D (and Mrs D), also made clear the option to keep the matured 
proceeds with the bank. 
I note the fixed term deposit terms and condition  to which a link was provided, states:
On maturity of the Fixed Deposit Account, the Fixed deposit will be renewed
to another Fixed Deposit with a similar maturity period.
However, you may instruct us to transfer the proceeds to the linked Current or
Savings Account that you have with us. Such instructions should be received in
writing by us at least 15 Working Days before the maturity date of a Fixed Deposit.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions made reasonably clear that 
the transfer could be processed to the linked current or savings accounts held with the bank. 
If Mr D didnt read this information, its not something that I can blame the business for. 
Despite what he says, Im unable to safely say that he wasnt given access to the terms and 
conditions. Thats another reason why I dont think the business did anything wrong by not 
again volunteering the information, as it was already contained within the terms and 
conditions available online.  
Despite what Mr D says, aside from being told to provide his full instructions in writing and 
making clear where he wanted his money to go, on the face of the evidence and on balance, 
Im not persuaded that he was told or led to believe that he could only pay his money into a 
different bank account and thats the sole reason why he provided details of such an account 
in his instructions to the business.  
I appreciate Mr Ds concerns about the email he and Mrs D received from the bank, but if 
they had concerns about its authenticity, he couldve called the bank to verify this or seek 
further information to satisfy himself as to whether or not it was a genuine email. In any case, I understand that the bank has provided feedback to the relevant department 
regarding this and that itll take the necessary action. In the circumstances this isnt a reason 
uphold this complaint as I dont think any financial harm was done. 
Like the investigator, on balance Im satisfied that the bank took a slightly different approach 
to Mrs Ds requests compared to Mr Ds. I think this was probably due to the difference in 
background between the two requests. Based on what the bank says, Im satisfied that it 
wasnt initially aware of Mr D also wanting to provide his own withdrawal instructions  as 
this wasnt mentioned by Mrs D  until he visited the branch and made his intentions clear. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied the bank was trying to do the right thing in terms of protecting its 
business and customers by ensuing that it was dealing with the correct person. I cant fault 
the business for this. 
Despite what Mr D says about a maturity instruction form, I understand that such a form 
doesnt exist so its possible that he misunderstood what was said in branch. But even if he 
was told at the first instance that he needed to fill out such a form  its likely this was said in 
error  and that error was resolved shortly thereafter by a different staff member who 
confirmed that no such form exists. On balance Im not persuaded that hes suffered any 
distress and inconvenience for which compensation is due. 
On balance, Im also not persuaded that the bank has done anything wrong by asking Mr D 
to call his local branch, and then doing so itself. I understand that because the process had 
already started, he wasnt put through an advanced/thorough due diligence process when 
his local branch subsequently called him. So, despite what Mr D says, in the circumstances I 
cant say that the business behaved unreasonably. 
On balance, Im satisfied that the bank assisted Mr D to deal with his request even though it 
wasnt to the level that Mr D was happy with. But in the circumstances, and on balance, Im 
unable to say the business behaved unreasonably towards him. 
I appreciate Mr D will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator and that I havent given him what he wants. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, 
Im not going to ask the bank to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reason set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman