DRN-1394542
The complaint
In summary, Miss G has complained that TSB Bank Plc didnt tell her it was transferring an 
outstanding debt in relation to her current account, to a debt collection agency. And she 
says she was given incorrect account details for the account into which agreed payments 
were to be made into, in respect of the outstanding debt.
What happened
In October 2018 Miss G switched her current account from TSB to another provider. The 
switch was processed by TSB on 28 October 2018 but there remained an overdraft balance 
of £845.44.
Miss G agreed a repayment plan with TSB in January 2019. She repaid £30 per month 
from January 2019 to April 2019 by visiting a branch and paying cash over the counter. 
TSB said payments stopped after this date and. It also went on to say that as it wouldnt 
have received enough repayments from Miss G to clear the balance over the six-month 
period from October 2018 onwards, it applied a default to her credit file in March 2019 and 
passed the account to a debt collection agency.
Miss G complained to TSB in August 2019 saying:
she didnt receive correspondence from it about the possibility of a default 
being applied to her credit file;
she wanted the default removed; and
she wanted £120 credited to the remaining balance as these payments had 
been paid from her new account, which shed set up using incorrect account 
information she was provided by TSB branch staff.
TSB also offered to offset the remaining balance with £120, if Miss G could provide 
statements from her new account provider to show that the payments werent returned. 
In addition, it offered £50 compensation for the incorrect account details its branch staff 
provided to Miss G, which caused the missed payments in the first place.
Miss G didnt accept TSBs response and rejected its offer of compensation. She raised 
a complaint with this service. 
Our investigator said TSB didnt act fairly when it applied the default and recommended 
the complaint be upheld in part. TSB didnt agree so the complaint was referred to me 
for decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 June 2020 explaining why I was thinking of 
upholding Miss Gs complaint in part. Both Miss G and TSB accepted my provisional 
decision.
Miss G then wrote to the investigator on 8 August 2020 to say that a collection agency 
had contacted her in relation to collection of the debt. She contacted the investigator 
again on 13 August 2020 asking if she had to still repay the debt and whether the credit 
/ default would still stand. 
Miss G spoke to the investigator to explain that she wasnt happy with the provisional 
decision as she was still expected to repay the debt. In summary she didnt think I had 
taken into account her attempts to make payments. She felt that my provisional 
decision was biased toward the bank and that I had expressed a gender bias in how I 
had expressed my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. 
Ive explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on 
board everything Miss G has said including what she told our investigator in her phone call 
with him on 13 August 2020. 
My role is not to represent the parties. I must act impartially and reach a decision based on 
the factors Ive outlined above. This means that sometimes I will uphold a complaint and on 
other occasions I wont.  Im not bound by the view an investigator may have reached on a 
case. And my role is to review the case afresh and reach my own independent opinion. 
Im very sorry that Miss G feels that the way I have expressed my findings comes across as 
demonstrating a gender bias. I can assure her that isnt the case and it wasnt my intention 
to offend her in the way that I have expressed myself. It is simply my writing style. 
Default on credit file and notification
The account switch date in October 2018 was effectively when Miss Gs banking relationship 
with TSB ended. So, it seems reasonable to me that TSB would start to think about 
consequences for Miss G about the non-payment of the balance in a timely manner.
TSB wrote to her on four separate occasions from November 2018 to February 2019. On 
1 December 2018 it explained that her account was in arrears and it explained what she 
needed to do, what she needed to know, what would happen next and what support was 
available from independent bodies. 
It wrote to her again on 8 December 2018 and explained that her current account was 
overdrawn and gave details of the amount outstanding, what she needed to do and what 
would happen if she didnt make a payment.
TSB wrote to Miss G again on 10 January 2019. It explained her account was being sent 
to its recoveries team and acknowledged the payment she had made. It also explained 
that it could request immediate payment in full and as the account continued to be in 
arrears the information would be passed to credit reference agencies. She would be sent 
a formal demand to pay the account balance.
TSBs letter of 28 February 2019 requested payment of the outstanding arrears in full. And 
it set out similar information to that contained in the letter of 1 December 2018.
Miss G has informed us that she didnt receive these letters and I understand that this is her 
honest recollection. However, the letters provided to this service by TSB show that the letters were correctly addressed to Miss G. I accept that some post can go astray, but the 
vast majority of correctly addressed post is delivered. And Im not aware of any problems 
Miss G was having with postal deliveries. So, I think its more likely than not than not that 
the correctly addressed letters were delivered.
Looking at everything Ive been provided, with Im satisfied that TSB was in contact with 
Miss G about the overdrawn balance on her account. And whilst she had offered to make 
payments of £30 a month, payments of that amount would have meant that the overdraft 
would have been paid in approximately 28 months.
TSB had explained to Miss G the consequences of her not paying the outstanding balance 
in full and the basis on which it accepted her offer of payments. So, I think it gave Miss G 
enough information to understand what might happen if she didnt pay the outstanding 
balance on her account. 
From everything Ive seen, it doesnt seem that Miss G was able to repay the outstanding 
balance in a reasonable period. I acknowledge that Miss G was trying to make payments 
towards the outstanding balance. But given all of the available information including the 
length of time it would take her to repay the balance on the account based on the payments 
she had offered, I dont think TSB acted unfairly in putting the account in default and 
registering the outstanding debt with credit reference agencies. In making this finding Ive 
also thought about the payments Miss G tried to make and Ive set out my thinking in 
relation to that issue in the section below. 
Missed payments
TSB has accepted that the account information its branch staff gave to Miss G was 
incorrect. And it has said itll adjust the remaining balance with a credit of £120 if Miss G 
can show that the four payments of £30 from May 2019 to August 2019 were not returned 
to her new account. However, other than what Miss G has said, I havent seen any other 
evidence that TSB ever indicated that it would apply this credit even if the statements 
showed the payments were returned.
Miss G has provided bank statements from her new bank account covering this period. 
They show that a payment of £30 to TSB was attempted on the 28th of each month, but 
they were returned as credits into Miss Gs new account. This indicates to me that she was 
committed to repaying the remaining balance. But it also shows that the payments were 
returned immediately.
I dont think TSBs request to see this information was unreasonable. So, Im satisfied 
that Miss G hasnt lost any money as a result of the incorrect information TSB gave her.
TSB has offered £50 compensation for the incorrect account information its branch 
staff gave her. I dont think this is fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from the information available to me, that Miss G was in a difficult 
financial position when her current account became overdrawn. And she had offered 
to make payments to pay off the outstanding balance on the account.
It seems to me that when she found out that the payments hadnt been received because 
she had been given incorrect bank details by TSB, this must have been very upsetting for 
her. And I think from her perspective she thought the payments not being received 
resulted in the default being applied.
However, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think this incorrect information and 
the payments not being received by TSB; made a difference to the default being applied. But as Ive also explained, I do think this information would have been very upsetting for 
Miss G when she found out about it. And I think a figure of £150 is more appropriate to 
compensate Miss G for the impact on her of being given incorrect information by TSB.
Transfer of the account to a debt collection agency
In its correspondence with Miss G, TSB explained to Miss G that if the outstanding 
balance wasnt received, it might recover this through a debt collection agency. So, I dont 
think it was necessarily wrong of TSB to take those steps.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is to uphold Miss Gs complaint in part. 
If Miss G accepts my final decision, I direct TSB Bank Plc to pay Miss G £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman