DRN-4451604
The complaint
Mr M complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a type of personal pension plan arrangement. He says the 
advice, which was provided in 1992, was unsuitable for him and he believes this has caused 
a financial loss.
Hymans Robertson LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things simple, 
Ill refer mainly to HRL.
Mr M has used a representative company to help him bring his complaint.
What happened
HRL initially didnt agree to us looking into this matter now because it said its been made too 
late under the rules we operate by. 
One of our investigators then considered the case and issued a view saying he did think we 
could look into it. The investigator concluded that there was enough evidence to say Mr Ms 
pension had probably been transferred from his company DB scheme in 1992 and that he 
hadnt become aware that he had a cause for complaint until relatively recently. 
Ive also been in touch with HRL and Ive confirmed that it now accepts that the complaint is 
one we can deal with. It also acknowledges that although the complaint was brought against 
a company with a slightly different name, that company entity is connected with HRL. So its 
accepted that HRL is now responsible for answering this complaint.
To be clear then, this is a complaint we can deal with against HRL and the company accepts 
this.
However, the outstanding issue at the heart of this complaint remains. This is basically that 
Mr M alleges that he was personally and unsuitably advised by HRL, to transfer away from 
his DB company pension scheme in 1992. He says he was transferred to a type of personal 
pension arrangement and has lost out as a result. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that we have very little information or evidence left to refer to here. On the 
face of it, HRL having no paperwork left to refer to about a pension transfer advice case, 
would appear to be a failing. I would expect documents, even from 1992, to be retained if 
they related to a DB pension transfer.
Nevertheless, these events relate to over 30 years ago and I have to take a pragmatic and 
realistic approach. Its fair to say that those employed in HRL now have no organisational 
memory from that far back. And the firms position now is that during this period of time, it 
mainly advised pension trustees and the like, as opposed to individual members of pension 
schemes  so it believes on this occasion it was contracted to provide advice to Mr Ms 
pension scheme trustee rather than Mr M himself. In my view, this aligns with HRLs current 
line of work, which is on the company website and description. It says: we work alongside 
employers, trustees and financial services institutions, offering independent pensions, 
investments, benefits and risk consulting services
Mr M is, perhaps understandably, unable to say much about the advice or how it all came 
about. Ive noted he was based in the north of England at the time and worked for a 
relatively small business with a small pension scheme. On the other hand, HRL was 
predominantly midlands-based. So, in the absence of much information about this case, 
I think this geographical distance does tend to support the view that HRL was contracted by 
the DB pension scheme trustees to provide advice, rather than Mr M himself. 
It also seems Mr M has no recollection of personally contacting or using HRL as an adviser 
and says he and many colleagues were brought into a room and told transferring away 
from the DB scheme would be better for them, following rumours or discussions about 
potential redundancies. I think that this too supports the view that the advice was contracted 
in by the pension trustees, rather than Mr M himself.
Ive then turned to the very limited documentation we do have left in the case. This 
comprises of some transfer records from early 1992. What these show is that from around 
March 1992 Mr M did begin a transfer away process and into a type of personal pension 
plan  so his recollections about this are to some extent true. But the documentation once 
again is far more suggestive of the advice being provided to the pension trustees and even 
indicative of the pension scheme potentially being in some sort of difficulty. The letter about 
what was happening was from the new pension provider  a large pension company of that 
time  to HRL. It is headed Re: Bulk Transfers  Section 32 and PPP Transfers  170 Lives 
Approx.
We know Mr M transferred to a Section 32 scheme which is a type of pension buy out. So, I 
think all these things show the transfer process was likely instigated by the pension scheme 
trustees and that individual advice was not provided by HRL to Mr M.
Mr Ms representatives point to what it considers to be certain anomalies. For example, it 
says HRL provided some documents which do suggest Mr Ms pension scheme was in 
financial difficulties, but that this was much later than 1992. It also appears HRL helped wind 
up the scheme, but this was in the late 1990s, and Ive also found a case study on the public 
internet which shows there was a further engagement between HRL and the DB scheme 
trustees in the 2000s. So, I have considered these issues in detail.
However, I think that what HRL was likely doing was supplying our Service (the Financial 
Ombudsman Service) with everything it had relating to either Mr M or his DB scheme. 
Conversely, Mr Ms representatives havent shown me that this means any of the dealings 
the parties clearly had in 1992 was specifically between Mr M (as an individual seeking 
pension advice) - and HRL.
There are also two letters in 1999 which were sent to Mr M by HRL inviting him to take part 
in a Pensions Review process. The Pensions Review was established in the 1990s following 
widespread concern, by the then regulator, that some consumers may have been unsuitably 
advised to transfer away from DB schemes. I think this implication from Mr M here is that he 
wouldnt have been sent these letters if he wasnt personally advised. I understand the point being made. Looked at through a certain lens, I can see why a person 
now complaining about this in the circumstances of Mr M, might think this shows he was 
personally advised. But I dont agree this strongly enough shows Mr M was personally 
advised. Against the backdrop of all the other evidence, what I think is more likely to have 
happened is that HRL collated all the names previously associated with transfers and sent 
out standard letters in 1999 because the regulator was directing a wide and comprehensive 
review. The next stage would have probably been to assess individual cases to determine 
whether they ought to form part of further or detailed review work as directed by the 
regulator.
Summary
I completely accept that there is a less than clear picture here of what really went on. 
However this was over 30 years ago. There is insufficient evidence showing that Mr M was 
personally advised by HRL. Having said that, I certainly dont doubt Mr Ms points of 
complaint are genuinely and honestly held. But the more persuasive evidence, in my view, is 
of a company (HRL) that didnt primary occupy the personal advice space in the pensions 
landscape. HRL was geographically distant from Mr M and he himself remembers a 
redundancy situation, which to me, implies a pension scheme that might have been in need 
of reform or support. So, I think the trustees contracted in help in this context.
To some extent, this is supported by later evidence showing a rescue of the scheme or its 
members was required. I accept there are some anomalies about this given the dates 
involved, but I think its more likely the scheme may have had difficulties that were protracted 
over several years and it was subsequently wound up.
So, like our investigator, Im not holding Hymans Robertson LLP responsible for providing 
unsuitable advice to Mr M because Im not persuaded that it provided him with any advice at 
all. This is a conclusion Ive had to arrive at on balance of probabilities, due to the lack of 
evidence. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M, but Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint that he was provided 
with unsuitable advice by Hymans Robertson LLP. In view of this, Hymans Robertson LLP 
doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman