DRN-4373962
The complaint
Miss A complains about security processes put in place by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC). 
What happened
Miss A had a bank account with HSBC. She tried to make a payment to a charity using a 
debit card issued by a different high street bank, who Ill refer to as Bank A, at the end of 
November 2022. Miss A said that although she made the payment using Bank As debit 
card, she believed it was HSBC who carried out security checks in relation to the payment. 
She said she believed the verification code she needed to confirm the payment through 
Bank A was sent by HSBC to an old phone number that she no longer has access to. Miss A 
said the payment was declined. 
Miss A contacted HSBC the following day to ask why it was making checks for a payment 
she was trying to make through Bank A. The HSBC adviser was unable to access Miss As 
account as Miss A failed security. So Miss A complained about the length of time it took for 
HSBCs automated message to move on to the next question; why HSBC was doing 
validation checks for Bank A; why HSBC was using an old telephone number; why it didnt 
provide contact details when it contacted her about the payment through Bank A; why she 
failed HSBCs telephone verification process; why it took so long to log her complaint and 
about being told she needed to verify her ID after failing security. 
HSBC responded and didnt uphold Miss As complaint. It said it had a telephone verification 
process in place so that it could be sure it had spoken to the authorised person. It said 
telephone banking staff had strict guidelines to follow when going through the security 
process which they were unable to deviate from. 
Miss A remained unhappy and so brought her complaint to this Service. She said HSBC 
didnt respond properly to her complaint and failed to address all complaint points raised. 
She asked for £550 compensation, which was the amount of money she said she tried to 
donate to the charity. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Miss As complaint. She said that the declined payment was 
made through Bank A, and so Miss A wouldve needed to contact Bank A if she wanted 
more information about why it was declined or the security checks that were carried out. 
Looking at the telephone security checks when Miss A rang HSBC, our Investigator said 
these were in place to protect consumers and the bank, and this Service wouldnt get 
involved in commercial decisions made about security processes. 
Miss A didnt agree with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the complaint points brought to this Service by Miss A about HSBC was that she 
wasnt able to make a donation to a charity prior to a particular cut off date. But the payment 
was attempted using a debit card issued by Bank A and not HSBC, which means the 
payment is unconnected to HSBC. I know that Miss A said it was HSBC who contacted her 
to carry out verification checks on the payment in question, but from the information HSBC 
has sent to us, there is no evidence that it was HSBC who tried to carry out these checks.
 
If Miss A wants to know more about anything to do with the declined charity donation, then 
she would need to contact Bank A. HSBC did not issue Miss A with the debit card she said 
she used, and I have not seen anything that suggests it is responsible for anything to do with 
a payment made using Bank As debit card.  
Miss A also complained about HSBC having an incorrect phone number listed on its records 
for her. Miss A said she tried to change this several years ago. HSBC provided this Service 
with a contact log showing its contact with Miss A over a number of years. Theres nothing in 
that log to suggest Miss A has changed her phone number with HSBC in the past few years. 
If Miss A believes that HSBC has an incorrect phone number for her then she will have to 
contact it separately and change it - its not for this Service to initiate that change. HSBC 
might want to take Miss A through some security checks in order for her to change her 
number so, as I said, Miss A will have to contact HSBC herself in order to make that change.  
I know that Miss A was also upset that HSBC werent able to answer her query about the 
charity donation being declined when she called it the day after she tried to make the 
payment. But this happened because Miss A failed the telephone security checks. While 
theres no doubt that its inconvenient when this happens, HSBC have these security 
measures in place to protect both itself and its consumers. The stance this Service takes is 
that we will rarely interfere with reasonable security measures put in place by banks, and I 
see no reason to deviate from that stance on this occasion. 
So given that Miss A failed the security checks, I think HSBC acted reasonably when it 
decided it wasnt able to speak to her about her account with it and when it told Miss A that 
she would have to provide it with identification before she could access her account using 
telephone banking.  
Miss A complained about other issues such as the length of time it takes between automated 
questions on HSBCs phone line and about why it took a while for the HSBC adviser to log 
her complaint. However, having listened to the call with the HSBC adviser, I dont think that 
they took an excessively long time to log Miss As complaint, and I could also hear that they 
took the time to explain the process of logging complaints to Miss A. So I dont think the 
HSBC adviser made any errors here. Also, how HSBC manages its automated phone line is 
a commercial decision that it is allowed to make and that I will not interfere with.
I know my decision will disappoint Miss A, but I am not asking HSBC to take any further 
action here.  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Martina RyanOmbudsman