DRN-2714196
The complaint
Mr Zs complaint is about the way Lloyds Bank PLC has compensated him for its mis-sale of 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies attached to two loans.
What happened
In 2019, Mr Z complained to Lloyds that hed been mis-sold PPI policies with two loans hed 
taken out ending 3057 and 5147. In January 2020, Lloyds responded to Mr Zs complaint 
accepting that the PPI policies had been mis-sold. It offered to pay him compensation for 
these mis-sales of £8,403.65. 
Mr Z wasnt satisfied that Lloyds had offered enough to fully compensate him for these mis-
sales, so he complained to this service.
Our adjudicator thought that the offer made by Lloyds was fair. So she didnt think Lloyds 
needed to do anything more. 
Mr Z didnt agree with the adjudicators view. He still wasnt satisfied that hed been offered 
enough by Lloyds, so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds has already agreed to uphold Mr Zs complaint about the PPI policies being mis-
sold, in this decision Im not looking at how these policies came to be sold. I am only looking 
at whether the offer Lloyds made was fair.
When a complaint about the mis-sale of a PPI policy is upheld we expect the business, as 
far as is possible, to put the consumer in the position they would have been in if the policy 
had never been sold to them. 
In the case of the sale of single premium policies, like these ones, which has been added to 
a loan, this would normally involve the business refunding that proportion of any loan 
payments which the consumer has made that relates to the PPI element of the loan. This 
will, therefore, include the interest that has been charged on the PPI element of the loan. We 
would also expect the business to pay 8% simple interest for the time that the consumer has 
been out of pocket because of payments made relating to the PPI policy.
Where, as is the case with both Mr Z loans, the loan is settled early, we would also expect 
the business to refund any additional amounts the consumer had to pay the business to do 
this because the PPI premium was added to the loan and interest was charged on it. This 
element of the refund is calculated taking account of any rebate of the PPI premium the 
consumer received at the time of the early settlement. Again, we would also expect the 
business to pay 8% simple interest for the time that the consumer has been out of pocket 
because of the additional amount he had to pay to redeem his loan early which related to the 
PPI policy.
Having calculated the amount of compensation due to the consumer as detailed above, the 
business is then required to deduct tax from that element of its offer which constitutes simple 
interest at 8%.
Lloyds has provided a detailed breakdown of the combined offer which it made to Mr Z in 
2020 for the mis-sales of these two single premium PPI policies. And having carefully 
reviewed this, Im satisfied from what Ive seen that the offer has been calculated in the way 
in which I would have expected and that it is fair.
Loan ending 5147
The loan and PPI policy started on 5 July 2000 and ended 5 August 2004. The amount 
borrowed was £19,000.00 and the cost of the policy was £1,850.40. The full monthly
payment for both elements and interest at the start of the loan was £266.53.
I can see that this loan didnt continue for its full term. Lloyds has provided evidence to show 
that Mr Z received a refund of £790.75 for the unused portion of his PPI premium when the 
loan ended. But this still meant that he had to pay £483.45 more (£1,274.20 less the £790.75 
refund he received), when he redeemed his loan early, than he would have had to pay if he 
hadnt ever been sold the PPI. 
Mr Z also paid £581.68 in monthly payments for the PPI whilst the loan was in force, 
together with interest on these payments of £477.14. 
I can see from Lloyds detailed calculations that it correctly calculated the above amounts 
and included them in the offer it made to Mr Z. Lloyds also added simple interest at 8% to 
these amounts (less tax), as it is required to do, for the time they have caused Mr Z to be out 
of pocket.
From what Ive seen, I think Lloyds has correctly calculated the offer it made Mr Z in relation 
to the mis-sale of the PPI on this loan.
Loan ending 3057
The loan and PPI policy started on 21 July 2000 and ended 23 August 2004. The amount 
borrowed was £31,000.00 and the cost of the policy was £2,590.86. The full monthly
payment for both elements and interest at the start of the loan was £258.33.
I can see that, once again, this loan didnt continue for its full term. Lloyds has provided 
evidence to show that Mr Z received a refund of £1,107.06 for the unused portion of his PPI 
premium when the loan ended. But this still meant that he had to pay £447.48 more 
(£1,554.54 less the £1,107.06 refund he received), when he redeemed his loan early, than 
he would have had to pay if he hadnt ever been sold the PPI. 
Mr Z also paid £1,036.32 in monthly payments for the PPI whilst the loan was in force, 
together with interest on these payments of £901.84. 
I can see from Lloyds detailed calculations that it correctly calculated the above amounts 
and included them in the offer it made to Mr Z. Lloyds also added simple interest at 8% to 
these amounts (less tax), as it is required to do, for the time they have caused Mr Z to be out 
of pocket.From what Ive seen, I think Lloyds has also correctly calculated the offer it made Mr Z in 
relation to the mis-sale of the PPI on this loan.
So, based on the information and evidence that Lloyds has provided, Im satisfied that the 
compensation which Mr Z was offered in relation to these two mis-sales has been calculated 
in the way in which I would have expected it to be and that it is fair. So I dont think Lloyds 
needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman