DRN-2719201
The complaint
Ms J complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made by a third party on 
her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms J was involved in an incident in which a third-party driver claimed she had collided with 
the rear of his car. But Ms J says there was no contact made with the other vehicle, and it 
was the other driver who had been driving erratically. Ms J also says she reported the 
incident to the police because the other driver had been aggressive towards her, and she 
thought he might make a fraudulent claim against her. Aviva later accepted liability for the 
incident, but Ms J felt they didnt investigate the claim properly.
Aviva agreed they hadnt done enough to investigate the claim before accepting liability for 
what happened, so they recorded the incident as a non-fault accident and reinstated Ms Js 
no claims discount. They also offered her £150 compensation for the service shed received. 
But Ms J said she wanted the claim removed from her record entirely. 
Aviva increased their offer to £275 but didnt think the claim should be removed from records 
because Ms J had been at the scene of the incident, and their engineer thought it was likely 
the accident happened. They said had they investigated the claim correctly, they would have 
had to accept joint liability for the incident. But as a gesture of goodwill they recorded the 
claim as non-fault and reinstated Ms Js no claims discount. 
Our investigator thought Aviva couldve done more to investigate the claim but thought they 
would still have had to pay the third partys claim even if they had. He acknowledged that 
Avivas customer service could have been better but felt they had done enough to put things 
right. 
Ms J also says: 
Had an engineer examined her car, it would have been obvious no collision had 
taken place. And their decision to record a claim caused her premium to increase.
Aviva took too long to resolve the claim and had they closed it quicker it wouldnt 
have impacted her premium.
Their actions caused unnecessary stress. 
The third-party driver has not been censured for his actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of this service isnt to decide if the accident happened or who was responsible for 
the incident, thats something a court would do. Instead we look at whether Aviva carried out 
a fair investigation and reached a reasonable conclusion. In Ms Js case Aviva accepts they 
couldve done more to investigate the claim. When things go wrong, Id expect Aviva to 
ensure Ms J hasnt lost out as a result of their error. So, what I must decide is whether 
theyve done enough to put things right. I think they have, and Ill explain why. 
Ms Js policy contains a term found in most car insurance policies. It says: 
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in your name or that of the person claiming 
under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim.
This means Aviva can handle a claim however they see fit. Even though it might mean they 
make a decision Ms J doesnt agree with, they are still entitled to do so. Where there isnt 
any independent evidence such as CCTV footage or a witness to say what happened at the 
time of the incident, it isnt unusual for insurers to settle the claim based on what they think is 
likely to have happened. 
I understand Ms J feels Aviva should have inspected her car, but I dont think they had to. 
Aviva are entitled to decide whether an inspection is necessary, and Im not persuaded it 
wouldve made a difference to the outcome of the claim. They had photographs of both cars 
inspected by their engineer, who concluded that while they couldnt say who hit who, based 
on the height and type of damage to both cars, it was likely the accident happened. The 
engineer also felt the damage was in keeping with Ms Js description of the incident. As 
such, Aviva didnt think they could remove the claim from CUE. And I dont think its 
unreasonable for them to rely on their engineers expert opinion. 
Aviva felt it would be difficult to say what happened. But as Ms J was present at the scene of 
the incident, and based on their engineers report, if they had investigated the claim its likely 
they wouldve had to accept some responsibility for the incident, and pay part of the third 
partys costs. Ive thought about what theyve said, and I dont find their conclusions unfair or 
unreasonable. 
If an insurer must pay out on a claim, a fault claim will usually be recorded against the 
policyholder, regardless of who is held liable for the incident. As compensation for the lack of 
proper investigation, Aviva recorded the incident as non-fault and reinstated Ms Js no 
claims discount. Effectively, putting Ms J in a better position than she might have otherwise 
been in, if things happened as they shouldve. So in the circumstances of this complaint, I 
find this is fair compensation. 
I would usually suggest Ms J ask her new insurers to recalculate her premium taking into 
consideration her reinstated no claims discount and the change to the outcome of the claim. 
But I understand this has already been done. However, Ms J says her premium is still higher 
because the claim has been recorded, regardless of its outcome. I appreciate Ms J feels 
Aviva are responsible for the financial loss shes experienced and would like them to pay this 
increase, but I dont think they need to. Aviva have a responsibility to ensure accurate 
records are kept, and as I said earlier, I dont think Avivas decision to record the claim is 
unreasonable. And I cant hold them responsible for the pricing decisions of other insurers. However, I recognise how distressing it was for Ms J, having to wait lengthy periods to find 
out the outcome of the claim. I think Aviva couldve done more to keep Ms J up to date with 
their progress. And at times could have been more proactive in chasing a response from the 
third partys insurer. Aviva recognise their service couldve been better, they also 
acknowledge they couldve handled Ms Js complaint better. They offered to pay £275 
compensation for the upset their actions caused her, and I think this is fair compensation.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms J hoped for, but I think Aviva has done enough to put 
things right. And I wont ask them to do any more than theyve suggested.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited already offered to pay Ms J £275 compensation to settle this 
complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision is Aviva Insurance Limited should pay £275.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman