DRN-2692889
The complaint
Mrs O, through her representative, complains that Society of Lloyds unfairly refused a claim 
under her legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Society of Lloyds, this includes its agents and claims handers.
What happened
Mrs O made a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy for the costs of pursuing 
possession proceedings against a third party who she believed to be trespassing. In 
summary, the property in question was left in a will to Mrs O and several other beneficiaries 
with instructions that it should be let out and the profits shared. But one of the beneficiaries 
moved into the property and has refused to leave or pay rent. Its understood that another 
beneficiary gave him access to the property along with a key. But its not clear what 
arrangements were made on how long he could stay. After five months of occupation, Mrs O 
made her claim to gain possession.
Society of Lloyds considered the claim under the terms and conditions of Mrs Os legal 
expenses policy, which says that it will cover a public of private nuisance or a trespass 
relating to your insured property. It goes on to say that it wont cover any claim relating 
toany nuisance or trespassthat arises from a contract, lease, licence or tenancy 
agreement between [you] and the third party (including trespass by [your] ex-tenant). 
Due to the complex nature of the claim, Society of Lloyds sought legal advice to determine if 
it fell within the policy terms and conditions. This advice was provided by a panel firm of 
solicitors dated November 2018. It concluded that the third party does not appear to be a 
trespasser in the legal sense of the term used in the insurance policy and that they dont 
consider a claim for possession is the appropriate way forward. Based on this, Society of 
Lloyds declined the claim. 
Mrs O didnt agree and obtained legal advice from a barrister, who Ill refer to as N. Whilst 
we have a copy of the advice, its undated and heavily redacted. From the information 
available, N was of the opinion that the third party does not have the right to occupy [the 
property] to the exclusion of the other beneficiaries. But they dont appear to conclude 
whether this amounts to a trespass in line with the policy requirements. 
In January 2019, the panel solicitor obtained a further counsels opinion from a barrister Ill 
refer to as M. This opinion predominantly addresses the ownership of the property along with 
the issues arising from the will, and a subsequent will of one of the beneficiaries. Its only 
towards the end that it turns to the question of the third partys occupation of the property. 
M was of the opinion that the third partys status as a beneficiary does not entitle him as of 
right to occupy the property and that his status is that of either a licensee or a trespasser; 
the issue would be as to whether it could be said that he entered as a trespasser in the first 
place. 
M suggested that in order to avoid arguments as to whether [the third party] is a trespasser 
or a licensee, a formal letter be sent to him giving four weeks notice of determination of 
any licence that he might have in respect of the property. But they advised that if the third 
party sought to defend possession proceedings or counterclaim, issued would arise as to 
whether this would be covered by the legal expenses policy.
Based on this advice, Society of Lloyds agreed to consider funding the trespass claim. As 
Mrs O wished to use a solicitor of her own choice, negotiations took place over the hourly 
rate and I understand there was some dispute over whether the policy cover extended to 
representing other beneficiaries. During that time, Mrs Os chosen solicitor issued a notice to 
the third party which he responded to advising that he wouldnt be vacating the property.
I understand this was ongoing until October 2019, by which time Society of Lloyds 
considered it appropriate to obtain an updated counsels opinion based on the developments 
in the case and the time that had passed. Whilst it returned to the same chambers that M is 
located, the further opinion was provided by a different barrister, which Ill refer to as G.
The instructions to G were to determine whether; the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of 
success; if proceedings should be issued; and to revisit the question of whether the claim fell 
within the policy terms and conditions. G concluded that the claim didnt fall within the scope 
of cover available under the legal expenses policy. They said the trespass was not a 
random and unpredictable act. It was the direct result of allowing [the third party] into 
occupation. On this basis, Society of Lloyds withdrew cover and declined the claim. 
Mrs O wasnt happy with this decision. She felt Society of Lloyds had disregarded legal 
opinions that were in her favour and that it shouldve been bound by Ms opinion that cover 
should be provided. She brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was fair for Society of Lloyds to rely 
on the legal advice it had obtained. And as that advice concluded that the claim didnt arise 
from an insured event, it was fair for the claim to be declined. 
As Mrs O didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
I appreciate the emotive nature of this claim and Mrs Os strength of feeling. Shes told us 
she feels Society of Lloyds has disregarded the supportive opinions on her claim and that 
the opinion of M shouldve been final and binding on any decision made on cover. But Im 
afraid I dont agree. 
Society of Lloyds isnt a legal expert  its an insurer  so its reasonable for it to obtain 
suitably qualified legal advice when making decisions about a claim if it considers it 
appropriate to do so. And its fair for it to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. 
Where it has declined funding, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. 
Instead, well look at whether Society of Lloyds has acted fairly based on the advice its 
obtained. But ultimately, the obligation is on Mrs O to show, on balance, that she has a valid 
claim under the policys terms and conditions. Having considered all four legal opinions sought on this claim, I cant see that any has 
concluded that Mrs Os claim falls under the cover offered by the policy. It was the panel 
solicitors and Gs opinion that it didnt. And whilst N and M felt the third party wasnt entitled 
to occupy the property, it didnt determine whether him being there amounted to a trespass. 
Whilst Mrs O would like Society of Lloyds to rely on Ms opinion as a final and binding 
decision, M didnt conclude that the claim was covered by the policy. They suggested that 
further action be taken in order to get to the bottom of whether the third party was a 
trespasser or a licensee. Once that action had been taken, I think it was reasonable for a 
further opinion to be sought. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that Society of Lloyds cant fairly rely on the legal 
advice provided by G. And as that advice is unsupportive of the claim, it follows that its fair 
for Society of Lloyds to decline cover under the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman