DRN-4091300
The complaint
Mr H and Mr B have complained that, after Mr Bs car was deemed a total loss, esure 
Insurance Limited settled the claim for only the amount outstanding on finance, rather than 
the market value of the car.
What happened
In summer 2021, Mr B bought a new car on a personal contract plan. The cash price for the 
car was £30,512, with £28,912 being financed on credit. Mr B bought an insurance policy 
from esure, on which there was a compulsory excess of £100 and a voluntary excess of an 
additional £500. Mr H was a named driver on the policy, with an additional excess of £400.
In October 2021, Mr H was involved in an accident. So he made a claim on the policy.  
Esure determined the car was a total loss, following which they paid £27,444.35 to settle the 
outstanding finance.
Mr B and Mr H complained that esure should have paid the market value for the car, with the 
amount over and above what was needed to settle the outstanding finance paid to Mr B.  
And they complained that theyd been charged the excess on the policy, even though it was 
a non-fault claim. Esure responded by referring Mr H and Mr B to the policy term, which 
states:
If you have acquired your car through lease or contract hire, we will pay the lease or 
contract hire company either the market value of the car, or the amount required to settle the 
agreement, whichever is less.
Mr B and Mr H werent satisfied with esures response and brought their complaint to our 
service. Our investigator considered it and concluded esure needed to do more to resolve it. 
They said esure should recalculate the settlement, based on the market value of the car at 
the date of loss (less any policy excess due) and pay any amount above the amount 
required to settle the finance directly to Mr B.
And they said esure should pay interest on this amount from the date the finance was settled 
until the date of payment. But they confirmed esure was entitled to reduce the payment by 
the policy excess  although they said esure should confirm whether they were seeking to 
recover this from the third party.
I agreed with the investigators view.  But I had to gather more information to come to that 
conclusion.  So  to give the parties a chance to comment on that  I made a provisional 
decision.
I provisionally decided that it was fair to deduct the policy excess from the settlement.  I 
noted that esure are still trying to recover that from the third party.  And Id expect them to 
keep Mr B and Mr H informed about this. 
But I explained that, in total loss cases, we usually expect a business to pay the policyholder 
the market value of their car.  if theres outstanding finance, wed expect the business to 
settle that, and pay any remaining balance to the policyholder.  Esure didnt do that.  I 
provisionally decided that wasnt fair.
My enquiries established the outstanding finance at the time of the accident was £27,444.35.  
Esure said the market value at the time was £29,533.12.  But my enquiries suggested this 
was too low.  An average of four valuations I got was £34,112.  So I said this was the market 
value which should be used.
On that basis, I provisionally decided esure should pay Mr B the difference between £34,112 
and the amount they paid to settle the finance. That comes to £6,667.65.  And I said they 
should pay him simple interest on this amount, at the rate of 8% per annum, calculated from 
the date they paid the settlement to the finance company until the date they pay Mr B.  
Mr B and Mr H accepted my provisional decision.  Esure didnt make any specific comments 
on its contents.  But theyve said theyll pay Mr B in line with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Bs and Mr Hs complaint for the reasons which I set out 
in my provisional decision and which Ive summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs and Mr Hs complaint about esure 
Insurance Limited and directing esure to pay Mr B:
the sum of £6,667.65 (less any excess due)
interest, calculated at the rate of 8% per annum for the period starting at the date 
they settled the outstanding finance until they pay Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman