DRN-2961315
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the condition of her sofa when returned following repairs 
carried out when she made a claim under a fabric protection plan with Amtrust Europe 
Limited. 
What happened
Mrs C made a claim for stain damage to the seat of her sofa in October 2019 which was 
accepted by the insurer, Amtrust. When Mrs Cs sofa was returned to her in June 2020, she 
contacted Amtrust a couple of days later. She said the back of the sofa was sagging around 
the buttons in areas where it hadnt before. 
Amtrust said the repairer told it the back of the sofa wasnt touched except to remove it as 
one and put it back as one. Amtrust said the buttons and fabric would not have been 
impacted. wouldnt have needed to access or remove that part of the sofa in order to carry 
out repairs. And it said that several months had passed between the claim being accepted 
and the sofa being removed for repair. So it said the sagging could have occurred during this 
time. 
Mrs C asked us to look at her complaint. She said theyd had the sofa for several years 
before making their claim and there was no sagging to the back of it. So she said any 
sagging would have most likely shown up by then  and not in the months between the claim 
being accepted and repairs being done. She provided photos of the sofa before and after 
repair to demonstrate.
Our investigator thought on balance that it was less likely that the sagging happened during 
the months between the claim being accepted and the repair. She asked Amtrust if it had 
any photos it had taken of the sofa pre repair, but it said it hadnt. Mrs C had provided a 
video taken a month before the repairs were carried out. Although the sofa was in the 
background and not the focus of the video, the investigator thought  taking everything into 
account  Amtrust should deal with repairs to the back of the sofa. And if it cant, it should 
arrange for a replacement or a cash settlement in line with the terms of the policy. 
The investigator thought Amtrust should pay £100 compensation to Mrs C for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Amtrust didnt agree. It says the technician didnt need to remove the back of the sofa in 
order to repair the seat which was damaged. It said there will be sagging over time and this 
isnt covered under the policy.
So as Amtrust didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the technician says the area Mrs C is unhappy about wasnt part of the 
repair. However, Ive looked at the photos and video provided  which Amtrust has also 
seen. And having done so, I agree with the investigators view and recommendations. 
Photos provided by Mrs C of the back of the sofa before repair show no signs of sagging 
between the buttons where the fabric is stretched. Although the video footage from May 
2020 does show the sofa in the background  and the video is brief  it doesnt show any 
signs of sagging to the back of the sofa. 
However, the photos Mrs C took after receiving the sofa back following repair show a 
change to the back of the sofa and the material is sagging. I have considered the terms of 
the policy  but our approach is to also consider what is fair and reasonable. 
I think Mrs Cs explanation that the back of the sofa was more likely to have shown gradual 
wear and tear (sagging) over the years than to have changed as it did in the photos between 
October 2019 and June 2020 is plausible. So in this case, Im more persuaded by the 
information Mrs C has provided. And so I think Amtrust should arrange for repairs to the 
back of Mrs Cs sofa. If repairs do not fix the issue, Amtrust should either replace the sofa or 
settle the claim by way of a cash settlement in line with the policy terms. 
I think £100 compensation is fair for the inconvenience Mrs C has been caused by Amtrust. 
Ive considered that during this time Mrs C and her family have had use of the sofa. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to do the 
following:

arrange for the back of Mrs Cs sofa to be repaired. If it cant repair it, it should 
settle the claim by either replacing the sofa or paying a cash settlement in line 
with the policy terms. 
Pay Mrs C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman