DRN-3763191
The complaint
Mr J complains that Sapia Partners LLP (Sapia) mis-sold him his investment in the 
Blackmore Bond Innovative Finance Individual Savings Account (Blackmore Bond).  
Mr J is being represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
However, for ease of reference, my decision will refer to Mr J only. 
What happened
The Blackmore Bond
In September 2018, Mr J invested £26,000 into the Blackmore Bond, issued by Blackmore 
Bond Plc (Blackmore).
Goji Financial Services Limited (Goji), an appointed representative of Sapia from 24 
November 2016 until 19 October 2018, provided a platform through which companies could 
appoint it to facilitate the administration of the investments and payments. Goji provided its 
platform services to Blackmore with respect to the Blackmore Bond offering. As such, Sapia 
is responsible for a complaint about Goji which is about the acts and omissions which took 
place during this time, for which Sapia accepted responsibility. 
Goji was responsible for arranging for investors to receive the financial promotional material 
prepared by Blackmore and approved by NCM Fund Services (NCM), and for making an 
investment into the Blackmore Bond.
As described in the Information Memorandum, Goji acting for Sapia, entered into an 
agreement with bondholders under which Sapia undertook to perform the following 
functions:
to treat investors in bonds as its clients
on their behalf to receive payments in respect of the Blackmore Bonds
to make payments, when due, in respect of the Blackmore Bonds to the investor
to facilitate the exercise of their security rights over the assets of Blackmore
The Blackmore Bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for 
the potential investor. Gojis online application process took steps to meet the obligations 
created by these rules. I have set out details of the application process below and will set out 
and consider the relevant rules in my findings. 
In October 2019, Blackmore stopped making payments to bondholders and in April 2020 it 
went into administration.
Mr Js investment in the Blackmore Bond
Mr J completed the online application form on 21 August 2018. He says he was provided 
telephone guidance whilst completing the online application but is unable to recall the 
business he spoke to. Sapia says Goji didnt provide any telephone, in-person, or other 
investor support and no telephone call recordings are available for me to consider. As such, I 
will base my decision on the online application information only and on the assumption Mr J 
completed it independently.
Mr J says this was his first experience of investing. He says he understood the Blackmore 
Bond would provide great interest and he could withdraw funds as needed. He says he 
hoped to achieve retirement income from the investment and for it to help him to pay for 
holidays. 
The application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr J underwent.
Certification
Mr J completed a self-certification process, which involved him making a declaration that he 
was a Restricted Investor. 
The appropriateness test
Having completed the certification, Mr J was required to complete an appropriateness test. 
This test set out the following multiple-choice questions:
What is a bond?
A savings account that pays interest once a year
An investment where I lend money to a company and earn a return for doing so
If you invest in a Blackmore Bond ISA, is your capital at risk?
No  the Financial Services Compensation Scheme guarantees my investment
Yes  this is an investment which is not covered by the FSCS and my capital is at 
risk
Are interest payments guaranteed? 
Yes  Blackmore will guarantee my interest payments
No  The insurance that Blackmore has in place only covers capital repayment and 
not interest repayment so interest repayments can not be guaranteed
Are you able to withdraw your money early?
Yes  I can withdraw my money at any time
No  I am committed for the length of the investment term I selected
Should you put all of your investment money into a Blackmore ISA?
Yes  I should put all the money I have available to invest into a Blackmore ISA
No  I should spread my money across a number of investments to diversify risk and 
not put a large amount of my capital in any single investment 
Is Blackmore guaranteeing your investment?Yes  Blackmore will underwrite any losses I suffer
No  Blackmore will not guarantee that I will get my money back, although Blackmore 
has put a security scheme in place to provide an element of protection
Sapia has provided evidence to demonstrate that Mr J correctly answered all of the above 
questions and following this, he was provided with an Information Memorandum which 
contained several risk warnings regarding the Blackmore Bond. 
Mr Js complaint and Sapias response 
Mr J complained to Goji in March 2021. He said that Goji had negligently promoted and 
arranged his investment into the Blackmore Bond. He said the investment was wholly 
inappropriate considering it was an unregulated high-risk, single asset, non-standard 
product. He also said Goji didnt carry out enough due diligence before making the 
investment available and he felt it should refund him the money he had lost. 
Sapia responded to Mr Js complaint but didnt think Goji, on its behalf, had acted unfairly. In 
summary, it said Mr J had declared himself as a Restricted Investor, completed an 
appropriateness assessment and received the Information Memorandum associated with the 
investment - clearly setting out the risks of the investment. Consequently, it didnt consider 
that it had failed in its duty of care to Mr J. 
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint and concluded it should be upheld. In 
summary, they said:
The investment wasnt a straightforward product. There were risk factors which would 
need to be considered for Mr J to understand it, including the inherent risks of 
property developments (delays, budget overruns etc) and the track record of 
Blackmore.
Looking at the appropriateness test Mr J was directed to complete during the 
application, theyd not seen that Goji asked for an appropriate amount of information 
about his knowledge and experience.
The appropriateness test didnt adequately test whether Mr J had the knowledge to
understand the specific risks associated with the Blackmore Bond  particularly when 
there were limited options for answers and repeated efforts were allowed.
It wasnt sufficient to just test that Mr J understood he could lose money  but how 
and why that may be likely to happen.
Had Gojis process met what was required under the rules, and sufficiently asked Mr 
J about his knowledge and experience, then they considered Goji ought to have 
reasonably concluded Mr J did not have the necessary knowledge and experience to 
invest in the Blackmore Bond.
This was Mr Js first experience of investing and the investigator had seen no 
evidence to show hed experienced investing in this type of product previously.
As the bond wasnt appropriate for Mr J, Goji was required to present a warning to Mr 
J and should he have wanted to continue anyway, then Goji ought to have 
considered whether in the circumstances, he should be allowed to go ahead despite 
the warning. 
In the test Mr J completed, had an incorrect answer been selected then he was 
prompted to read the risk statement and he could take the test again. This doesnt 
meet what is required under the rules which require a warning to be given that the 
bond wasnt appropriate. 
Allowing Mr J to silence the warning by changing an answer reduces the impact this warning was intended to provide. This approach also meant there wasnt an 
opportunity for Goji to consider whether Mr J ought to go ahead investing in the bond 
in the circumstances.
If Goji had given itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances whether to 
allow Mr J to proceed, having asked for appropriate information about his knowledge 
and experience, it would have been fair and reasonable for Goji to conclude it should 
not have allowed him to proceed.
If he had been asked for appropriate information about his knowledge and 
experience this would have shown he may not have been able to fully understand the 
risk associated with the bond, as he had no prior experience with investing. 
Having considered whether Goji tested and assessed the appropriateness of the 
bond for Mr J, the investigator didnt think Goji had treated him fairly or acted in his 
best interests. Had Goji acted fairly and reasonably in meeting its regulatory 
obligations around appropriateness, Mr J wouldnt have got beyond this stage and so 
wouldnt have made the investment.
The Information Memorandum for the bond would only be available to Mr J once he 
had properly progressed through the categorisation and appropriateness parts of the 
application. And so, any information within that cant now reasonably be relied on to 
show he was aware of the risks associated with the Blackmore Bond.
Mr Js response to the view
Mr J accepted the investigators findings and was happy with the proposed resolution.
Sapias response to the view
Sapia didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
It considers that it has limited responsibility for the set of events that have 
subsequently occurred with respect to the Blackmore Bond and there is not a causal 
link between any action or inaction by Sapia and any loss suffered by Mr J.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has brought in new rules relating to the 
format of appropriateness testing which would render the Blackmore test non-
compliant. However, the fact that new rules were required to implement this higher 
standard strongly indicates that there was no prior requirement for firms to apply 
limits on the number of answers or the number of failures that should be applied. 
Mr J was responsible for correctly completing the self-certification process and the 
appropriateness test and for ultimately making the investment. However, his 
complaint submissions regarding his circumstances at the time are not in line with the 
answers he gave in the test. 
Mr J was provided with an Information Memorandum which contained extensive risk 
warnings, and recommended he seek independent financial advice if he was unsure 
the investment was suitable.
Its entirely legitimate to argue that the number of tests and answers are irrelevant, 
provided that at the end of the process, Mr J clearly acknowledged the pertinent risks 
of the investment.
Mr J didnt fail the test at any time, so the repeated references within the 
investigators findings to this aspect of the test are irrelevant to the complaint.
Any property fund will involve the same or increased levels of complexity to the 
Blackmore Bond, but it is clearly not market practice for investors to be required to 
demonstrate a knowledge of the underlying risks in the level of detail that the 
investigator indicated would be necessary in order to invest in those products.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js complaint concerns what he considers to be a mis-sale of the bond by Goji, on 
Sapias behalf. Im satisfied that this includes Goji, acting on Sapias behalf, applying 
relevant tests regarding investor categorisation and appropriateness. Therefore, I will first set 
out the relevant considerations when looking at the application process Goji, on Sapias 
behalf, conducted before allowing Mr J to invest. 
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In my view the key consideration as to what is fair and reasonable in this case is whether 
Sapia met its regulatory obligations when Goji, acting on its behalf, carried out the acts the 
complaint is about. I consider the following regulatory obligations to be of particular 
relevance here.
The Principles for Businesses 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 and 7 are relevant here. They provide: 
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Principle 7 - Communications with clients - A firm must pay due regard to the information 
needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading.
COBS 4  Communicating with clients, including financial promotions 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2 - Fair, clear and not misleading communications, which I 
also consider to be relevant here: 
COBS 4.2.1R said: 
(1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear 
and not misleading.
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10. I have set out below 
what I consider to be the relevant rules, in the form they existed at the time. 
COBS 4.7 - Direct offer financial promotions COBS 4.7.7R said:
(1) Unless permitted by COBS 4.7.8 R, a firm must not communicate or approve a 
direct- offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security [...] to or 
for communication to a retail client without the conditions in (2) and (3) being 
satisfied. 
(2) The first condition is that the retail client recipient of the direct-offer financial 
promotion is one of the following: 
(a) certified as a high net worth investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R; 
(b) certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R; 
(c) self-certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 
R; 
(d) certified as a restricted investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.10 R. 
(3) The second condition is that firm itself or the person who will arrange or deal in 
relation to the non-readily realisable security will comply with the rules on 
appropriateness (see COBS 10) or equivalent requirements for any application or 
order that the person is aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, is in response to the 
direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10  Appropriateness 
At the time COBS 10.1.2 R said: 
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily 
realisable security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is 
aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response 
to a direct offer financial promotion. 
COBS 10.2.1R said: 
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client 
to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment 
field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to 
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for 
the client. 
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether the client has 
the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in 
relation to the product or service offered or demanded. 
COBS 10.2.2R said: 
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment 
field includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and 
extent of the service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, 
including their complexity and the risks involved, information on: 
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client 
is familiar; (2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out; 
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client 
COBS 10.2.6G said: 
Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge 
alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks involved in a product or service. 
Where reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience. 
COBS 10.3.1R said:
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess 
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm 
must warn the client.
COBS 10.3.2R said:
(1) If the client elects not to provide the information to enable the firm to assess 
appropriateness, or if he provides insufficient information regarding his knowledge 
and experience, the firm must warn the client that such a decision will not allow the 
firm to determine whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for him. 
COBS 10.3.3G said:
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning 
by the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the 
circumstances.
Having taken careful account of these relevant considerations, to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, and given careful consideration to all Sapia has said, Im 
satisfied the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain my findings below.
The online application process 
I acknowledge that Sapia says there were a number of parties involved in the Blackmore 
Bonds, but nonetheless, Goji, on behalf of Sapia, played an integral part in Mr Js 
investment. As such, the starting point is for me to consider the act(s) Goji, on Sapias 
behalf, carried out, and decide whether its fair and reasonable to find it did something 
wrong.
There were a number of regulatory obligations which applied to the sale of the Blackmore 
bond. The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it 
could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for Mr J. 
These are the two conditions set out in COBS 4.7.7R which must be satisfied before a 
business such as Goji (here acting on Sapias behalf) could communicate or approve a 
direct-offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security, such as the 
bonds issued by Blackmore. 
The online application took steps toward meeting the rules which set out how a busines must 
satisfy the conditions, which I have set out above. I will consider the steps taken by Goji, on 
behalf of Sapia, focusing on the appropriateness test it conducted. At the outset I think it is again important to emphasise the bond Mr J invested in was not a 
straightforward product. Risk factors associated with the bond included those which the 
investigator explained  the inherent risks of property developments (delays, budget 
overruns etc), as well as the track record of Blackmore. All of these points (and this is not an 
exhaustive list) would need to be considered in order to understand the investment. I 
understand Sapia says the investigator had indicated that it was Gojis responsibility to test 
Mr Js knowledge of these specific risks. However, I agree with the investigator that its 
important to give these specific risks for context, as it demonstrates that the bond was 
complex, risky and specialist. I dont think it was the investigators intention to say the 
appropriateness test needed to include, necessarily, these specific questions, and neither is 
it my intention, as I will provide my findings on the appropriateness test in more detail below. 
However, I think its important to note that the rules required Goji, acting on Sapias behalf, 
to consider the nature and extent of the service to be provided and the type of product or 
transaction envisaged, including their complexity and the risks involved and so the 
complexity of the bonds and the risks associated with them was relevant considerations 
when appropriateness was being tested.
In the market for corporate bonds listed on the main exchanges, institutions  ratings 
agencies  carry out analysis work to assess the risk associated with a bond and express a 
view (a rating), and investment managers often carry out further credit analysis before 
deciding to invest in a bond. Here there were no such aids to a consumers understanding of 
the product. There was also a liquidity risk. The bond was not listed on a recognised 
exchange, and so could not be readily sold. 
As the bond was complex, risky and specialist, the bond fell into a category of investment on 
which the FCA puts restrictions as to who it could be promoted. The purpose of the rules is 
consumer protection  to ensure risky investments are not promoted to those who may not 
fully understand their risks. The importance of Goji, on behalf of Sapia, fully meeting its 
regulatory obligations here was therefore high. Its responsibility was significant. And the 
steps it took to meet its regulatory obligations need to be considered with that in mind.
Appropriateness test
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required BG Ltd to comply with the rules on 
appropriateness, set out in COBS 10 and quoted in the relevant considerations section 
above.
The rules at the time (COBS 10.2.1R) required Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, to ask Mr J to 
provide information regarding his knowledge and experience  and for this information to be 
relevant to the product offered (the first limb of the rule). The rules required that information 
to then be assessed, to determine whether Mr J did have the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved (the second limb of the rule). 
As set out above, COBS 10.2.2 R required Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, when considering 
what information to ask for, to consider the nature of the service provided, the type of 
product (including its complexity and risks) and for it to include, to the extent appropriate to 
the nature of the client: 
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client 
is familiar; 
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out; 
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the clientHaving reviewed the appropriateness test Mr J was directed to complete during the 
application, Im not persuaded Goji, on behalf of Sapia, asked for an appropriate amount of 
information about Mr Js knowledge and experience, as required by COBS 10.2.1R and 
COBS 10.2.2 R. 
The appropriateness test, as set out above, asked seven questions which tested Mr Js 
knowledge. However, nothing was asked about M Js experience, despite it being required 
by the rules (COBS 10.2.1R).
I understand Sapia says Mr J didnt fail to answer any of the questions incorrectly and its 
provided evidence to demonstrate this. Sapia says Mr J answered all these questions 
correctly and this demonstrates that he did understand the investment. I do not agree. His 
answers only suggest that he understood what a bond was, that his capital was at risk, 
interest payments werent guaranteed and that he was unable to withdraw his investment 
early.
In my opinion, this falls a long way short of adequately testing whether Mr J had the 
knowledge to understand the risk associated with the bonds  particularly in circumstances 
where the multiple-choice options were limited to two. The risks, as I set out earlier, were 
complex and multifactorial. It was not, for example, a question of whether Mr J simply 
understood money could be lost  but whether he was able to understand how likely that 
might be and what factors might lead to it happening. 
As the first limb of COBS 10.2.1R was not met, Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, was unable 
to carry out the assessment required under the second limb. Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, 
should have been confident, from the information it asked for, that it was able to assess if Mr 
J had the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved 
with investment in the bond. But it was not in a position to make such an assessment, based 
on the information it obtained.
I understand Sapia suggests the FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around 
appropriateness since Mr J made his investment in 2018, and the regulatory environment 
has changed since then. To be clear, my findings are based on the rules that existed at the 
time he invested.
Im persuaded that, had the process been consistent with what the rules required and Mr J 
had been asked for appropriate information about his knowledge and experience, the only 
reasonable conclusion Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, could have reached, having assessed 
this, was that Mr J did not have the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the 
risks involved with the bond. Mr J did not have any investment experience and I have seen 
no evidence to show he had anything other than a very basic knowledge of investments.
If Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, assessed that the bond was not appropriate, COBS 
10.3.1R said a warning must be given and the guidance at COBS 10.3.3G said a business 
could consider whether, in the circumstances, to go ahead with the transaction if the client 
wished to proceed, despite the warning. I understand Sapia says Mr J didnt fail to answer 
any of the questions incorrectly and so no such warning was provided.  However, Ive 
explained why the test fell a long way short of adequately testing Mr Js knowledge and 
experience, and had it adequately tested this, Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, would have 
come to the conclusion that the bond wasnt appropriate for Mr J. 
A clear, emphatic statement would have left Mr J in no doubt the bond was not an 
appropriate investment for him. And he ought to have been privy to such a warning, had an 
appropriateness test consistent with the requirements of the rules been conducted. Furthermore, had Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, given itself the opportunity to consider in 
the circumstances whether to go ahead with the transaction if Mr J wished to proceed, 
having asked for appropriate information about Mr Js knowledge and experience, it would 
have been fair and reasonable for Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, to conclude it should not 
allow Mr J to proceed. Had Mr J been asked for appropriate information about his knowledge 
and experience this would have shown he may not have the capacity to fully understand the 
risk associated with the bond. As mentioned, I have seen no evidence to show Mr J had 
anything other than a very basic knowledge of investments. In these circumstances, it would 
not have been fair and reasonable for Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, to conclude it should 
proceed if Mr J wanted to, despite a warning being given (which, as noted, was not in any 
event given).
All in all, Im satisfied Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, did not act fairly and reasonably when 
assessing appropriateness. By assessing appropriateness in the way it did, it was not 
treating Mr J fairly or acting in his best interests. If it had acted fairly and reasonably to meet 
the relevant regulatory obligations when assessing appropriateness, Mr J would not have got 
beyond this stage. 
As the second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have 
proceeded beyond this, Mr J wouldnt have received the Information Memorandum for the 
bond. And so, any information within that cannot now reasonably be relied on to show he 
was aware of the risks associated with the bond. In any event Ive also not seen sufficient 
evidence to show Mr J had the capacity to fully understand the Information Memorandum  a 
lengthy and complex document  given his limited knowledge and experience. As such, 
Sapia cant fairly rely on any possible reading of this as a means to correct the failings set 
out above. 
Is it fair to ask Sapia to compensate Mr J?
Sapia says Mr J expressly acknowledged on numerous occasions that by proceeding with 
the investment he was at risk of losing the capital he invested, and this is evidence that Mr J 
would have proceeded to invest in the bond regardless of what it did. However, I do not think 
it would be fair to say Mr J should not be compensated on this basis. 
Firstly, he should not have been able to proceed, had Goji, acting on Sapias behalf, acted 
fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. I acknowledge that other parties may 
have caused or contributed to Mr Js eventual loss but, notwithstanding that, Im satisfied it is 
fair to ask Sapia to compensate Mr J as the appropriateness test was a critical stage, for 
which Goji, on behalf of Sapia, was responsible for. 
Secondly, for the reasons I have given, I am not in any event persuaded Mr J did proceed 
with a full understanding of the risks associated with the bond. I am not persuaded Mr J 
looked at the full detail of the acknowledgements he gave, given what Mr J has said about 
his understanding of the bond and his lack of investment experience. I am not persuaded Mr 
J had the capacity to fully understand the risks associated with the bond  and he was in this 
position because Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, did not act fairly and reasonably to meet its 
regulatory obligations at the outset. Im therefore satisfied it is fair to ask Sapia to 
compensate Mr J for the loss he has suffered.Putting things right
Fair compensation 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr J 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bond. I 
think Mr J would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr 
J's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Sapia do? 
To compensate Mr J fairly, Sapia must:
Compare the performance of Mr J's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr J in a clear and simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
The 
Blackmore 
Bond 
Innovative 
Finance 
Individual 
Savings 
AccountStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decisionSapia Partners 
LLP must pay 
the 
compensation 
within 28 days of 
the date on 
which we tell it 
Mr J accepts my 
final decision. If it 
pays later than 
this it must also 
pay interest on 
the 
compensation 
from the date of 
my final decision 
to the date of 
payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr J agrees to Sapia taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Sapia to take ownership, then it may 
request an undertaking from Mr J that he repays to Sapia any amount he may receive from 
the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Sapia should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply 
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis. Any additional sum paid 
into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation from the point in time when 
it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Sapia totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Im unaware if Sapia charge fees for operating an IFISA account. However, the wrapper only 
exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the wrapper to be closed and further fees 
that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive set out above 
how this might be achieved by Sapia taking over the investment.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Sapia are
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that Sapia
pay Mr J an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees but illiquid from 
fixed rate bonds investment settlement applicable (calculated using the fee in the previous 
year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the 
wrapper to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr J has explained he had no prior investment experience. And, he was unable to 
withstand losses from this investment, and thought it would provide a good return. He 
also said he was due to retire soon and invested a significant portion of his total 
capital into this investment.
Mr J wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr J's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr J would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained 
with little risk to their capital.
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to their
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, clicking
on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit rates - Fixed
rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be
found by following this link: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively,
just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website:
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sapia Partners LLP should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman