DRN-3299655
The complaint
Mr A complains Shawbrook Bank Limited treated him unfairly in relation to his buy to let 
mortgage during the coronavirus pandemic.
What happened
In 2018 Mr A took out a buy to let mortgage for around £140,000 with Shawbrook Bank 
Limited (Shawbrook) which was secured over commercial premises. 
During the pandemic his tenants businesses were affected and they couldnt pay their rent. 
In April 2020 Shawbrook agreed to Mr A deferring his mortgage payment for three months in 
line with government and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance about payment 
holidays - or, more accurately, payment deferrals - (the pandemic guidance). The payment 
deferral was extended for a further two months in June and July 2020. And Mr A had a final 
months deferral in November 2020.
Mr A was still finding it difficult to pay his Shawbrook mortgage. In late 2020 Shawbrook 
considered his financial position to assess his request for forbearance in relation to his 
contractual monthly payment (CMP). In January 2021 Shawbrook told Mr A not to worry 
about making the CMP due that month as they were still assessing his request.
Mr A was unhappy about how much information Shawbrook had asked for to support his 
request for a further payment deferral. And he felt Shawbrook hadnt understood guidance 
the government had issued about how to deal with deferral requests after a customer had 
deferred payment for six months. 
In around March 2021 Mr A discussed paying 50% of the CMP for a couple of months. 
Shawbrook said the unpaid balance, added to the missed January payment, would increase 
arrears to the level at which theyd have to report them to credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
Mr A was unhappy as hed understood he didnt have to make the January payment. 
Shawbrook didnt uphold Mr As complaint. They acknowledged theyd told Mr A he didnt 
need to pay in January as they were still considering his position. But they didnt mean hed 
never have to pay. They paid Mr A £30 compensation. And Shawbrook said theyd rejected 
Mr As request for forbearance due to lack of supporting documentation. They explained to 
Mr A that whilst theyd accept reduced mortgage payments for a couple of months later on, 
that would take his arrears to level at which they had to report the arrears on the account to 
CRAs.
Since Mr A was unhappy with Shawbrooks response, he brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think Shawbrook had acted unreasonably and didnt 
uphold Mr As complaint. Since Mr A didnt accept our investigators view, Ive reviewed 
everything afresh to come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr As strength of feeling about how Shawbrook has treated him. But, for the 
reasons Ill explain, I dont think Shawbrook treated him unfairly.
From March 2020 the FCA began issuing guidance to lenders about how they should help 
their customers who had been affected by the pandemic. It changed over time. But, broadly, 
lenders were advised to approve initial requests from customers affected by the pandemic 
for a three-month payment deferral without investigating their financial circumstances. And 
customers were generally able to extend the deferral period for a further three months 
unless the lender thought an alternative option was in the customers best interests. 
In total, a customer could defer payments for six months before the lender looked at other 
options for helping customers in financial difficulties, tailored to their individual 
circumstances. Missed payments werent reported to CRAs during the six-month deferral 
period. But they werent written off either. Generally, they were added to the amount owed 
under the mortgage to be paid off by the end of the term, and they attracted interest. 
Shawbrooks letters to Mr A explained this at the time and they were acting in line with the 
guidance. 
In November 2020 updated guidance said that although the time to apply for a payment 
deferral was extended, the maximum number of payment deferrals was six months. And 
from January 2021 lenders were expected to go back to reporting any missed payments to 
CRAs in the normal way. Where borrowers expected to face ongoing payment difficulties, 
lenders were expected to work with their customers to try and help before payments were 
missed. 
Shawbrook agreed to defer Mr As payment for November 2020. This brought the total 
number of payment deferrals theyd agreed with him to the maximum of six. So, they were 
right not to treat the January 2021 CMP payment as a payment deferral under the pandemic 
guidance.
Shawbrook discussed Mr As financial position with him in late December. They took details 
of his income and outgoings. And they said, as theyd done before, hed need to provide 
bank statements and a tenancy schedule relating to his property portfolio. Shawbrook 
explained they needed the documents to validate the information hed given them and make 
sure any forbearance they proposed wouldnt put him into a worse position.
I acknowledge Mr As concerns that providing the documentation Shawbrook requested was 
time consuming and affected his work. But I dont think their request was unreasonable. This 
was a buy to let mortgage for a property that was part of Mr As portfolio. He was obliged to 
make full CMPs under the terms of his mortgage. And hed managed to make the CMP 
during October and December 2020 so it appeared he could afford them. 
Whilst Mr A had provided financial information over the phone, it was reasonable for 
Shawbrook to see documentation to support what hed told them. I dont think asking for six 
months of bank statements and details of the other tenancies he had was unfair or out of 
step with what other lenders might ask for. It was to help Shawbrook understand his overall 
financial situation and consider whether any forbearance they might be able to offer him was 
in his best interests. Since Mr A didnt provide the information, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Shawbrook not to offer assistance. 
Shawbrook acknowledged theyd given Mr A inaccurate information about missing the 
January payment. I can understand that was frustrating. When he spoke to Shawbrook in 
late December they told him missing the January payment would lead to arrears and potentially impact his credit file and cause him to be charged fees on his account. So, I think 
he understood the possible impact of missing the payment then, which probably prompted 
him to check with Shawbrook. 
Ive listened to the January call. The adviser said hed spoken to a colleague whod told him 
Shawbrook were still considering the forbearance request and he shouldnt worry about 
making the January payment. I can understand Mr A was reassured he didnt need to pay 
then. But by the middle of January he was aware Shawbrook considered him to be in 
arrears. He paid £100 to keep the arrears below the level at which Shawbrook would have to 
report arrears to CRAs. He chose not to pay the full CMP while he made enquiries into what 
Shawbrook was telling him about payment deferrals.
In March Shawbrook confirmed once again they wouldnt agree to forbearance without the 
financial information theyd asked for. At the beginning of April, Mr A discussed the 
possibility of making reduced payments for April and May. Shawbrook told him if he did, 
taking into account the reduced January payment, his arrears would be at a level they 
needed to report to CRAs. 
Mr A knew he was in arrears from his conversation in mid-January. So, I dont think it should 
have been surprising to him that his arrears would increase if he made reduced payments in 
April and May 2021. And I think the £30 Shawbrook paid him for the impact on him of what 
he was told in early January was fair to put things right given Shawbrook told him the correct 
position soon after the call and there was limited impact on him.
Ive considered the service Shawbrook provided. I know Mr As unhappy he spoke to several 
members of staff. But Im satisfied they provided consistent and accurate information and 
treated him fairly overall.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr A will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint. Mr A says Shawbrook have been pursuing him for arrears. Id expect Shawbrook 
to be reminding Mr A of amounts outstanding on his account, although they should continue 
to treat him fairly. Id encourage the parties to discuss how Mr A can now get up to date with 
his payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman