DRN-3556239
The complaint
Mr W complains through his representatives that Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans (Everyday) lent him money on high cost loans which he was unable to 
afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided the following loans to Mr W:
Date Amount Term Instalments When repaid
Loan 1 5/9/2012 £5,000 60 months £242* 19/4/2013 
(repaid by 
loan 2)
Loan 2 19/4/2013 £6,100* 60 months £230* 9/4/2018
*rounded figures
Mr W complained that the loans were unaffordable to him and that he got deeper into debt. 
He has since entered into an IVA (Individual voluntary arrangement) to service his debts.
Everyday said it carried out the normal verification checks, which included carrying out a 
credit check, reviewing two months bank statements and verifying his income. It assessed 
his normal outgoings using ONS (Office for National Statistics) data. Its assessment 
confirmed that the loans were affordable to him.
Our adjudicator said the results of the checks showed that although the loans were for debt 
consolidation, it didnt put Mr W in a better position. He would have had to pay a significant 
proportion of his monthly income towards his combined monthly creditor repayments. This 
also only allows for minimum repayments to the revolving credit (credit cards, overdraft) at 
5% per month. She said that for both loans, Everyday should refund all interest payments on 
both loans.
Everyday agreed the adjudicators view concerning loan 2. However it maintained it had 
made the correct decision concerning loan 1, as it paid off two credit cards with this loan.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ws ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Considering the amount of the loans and the substantial commitment they represented for 
Mr W, I think Everyday should have carried out a thorough review of Mr Ws income and 
financial commitments.
loan 1
Ive carefully reviewed Everydays affordability assessment, particularly having regard to the 
credit check report. As our adjudicator advised, for debts like credit cards or an overdraft, 
where no specific monthly payment is mandated by the lender, its reasonable to look at a 
payment of 5% of the balance each month. Mr W had four credit cards whose balances 
totalled over £15,300. He also had an overdraft of just over £1,000, but no other loans.. 
Before taking out the loan, his credit commitments represented over 54% of his assessed 
income of £1,504. But, allowing for consolidation of two of the credit cards, the new loan 
instalment pushed this up to 63%, a clear indication, in my view, that the loan was 
unaffordable.Looking at his disposable income, Mr Ws outgoings were £526 (based on ONS data), and 
£200 housing costs. Looking at the amount he would have required to service both these 
and his new credit commitments, I calculate that he would have had a negative monthly 
disposable income of -£169. Even if I were to accept Everydays calculations, which were 
based on 3% of the revolving credit balances, this figure would only have been +£112, with 
his new credit commitments amounting to 44% of his income. On either scenario, I think the 
loan was unaffordable for Mr W.
loan 2
As Everyday has accepted the adjudicators view concerning this loan, I wont make any 
further comment.
Putting things right
Mr W has had the capital sum in respect of each of the loans and its fair for these sums to 
be repaid. I should warn Mr W and his representatives that the administrator of his IVA has 
confirmed that, under the terms of the IVA, they do have an interest in the complaint. And its 
likely that they will require that any redress be paid to that company rather than directly to 
Mr W. 
In respect of both loans Everyday should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans.
Treat any payments made by Mr W as payments respectively towards the capital 
amounts.
If Mr W has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% simple 
interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information, if appropriate, about the loans from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr 
W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman