DRN-4284046
The complaint
Mr H complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly closed his accounts. 
What happened
Mr H opened two accounts with Metro Bank on 25 May 2023. One was opened online, and 
the other in branch. 
Metro Bank carried out its account opening process, which included due diligence checks. 
Following these checks, Metro Bank informed Mr H of its decision to close both of Mr Hs 
accounts in line with its terms and conditions. 
Mr H raised a formal complaint about the account closures. Metro Bank explained it had 
acted based on information recorded against his name on the Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System (CIFAS). It explained that it wouldnt be reopening his accounts, and he 
could take the issue up further directly with CIFAS if he wanted more details or believed the 
marker to be incorrect. 
Mr H remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. Mr H explained Metro 
Bank hadnt provided clear reasons about the account closures. An Investigator reviewed 
the complaint and found that Metro Bank had acted fairly. 
Dissatisfied with this review, Mr H asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, this decision only relates to Mr Hs complaint against Metro Bank. Mr H has also 
complained about the bank which recorded the marker against him on the anti-fraud 
database CIFAS. The two complaints, about two different banks, are dealt with separately. 
This decision relates only to whether or not Metro Bank treated Mr H fairly and reasonably.
CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency, which has a large database on which information is 
recorded to protect financial businesses and their customers against fraud. Mr H opened two 
accounts, and as part of its due diligence process Metro Bank checked the CIFAS database. 
This is a standard part of the process when a new customer is taken on, and an important 
step in ensuring banks meet their regulatory obligations. 
Metro Bank decided to close Mr Hs accounts based on the information recorded on CIFAS. 
Banks can close a customers account if they wish to, and dont have to give a reason  in 
the same way that customers can choose to close an account and dont have to give a 
reason. But banks can also close accounts without giving notice in some circumstances. 
This is set out in the terms and conditions of Mr Hs Metro Bank accounts. I can see Metro 
Bank has explained the closure was due to information recorded on the CIFAS database, 
and it directed Mr H to contact CIFAS directly if he wanted more details. 
I also consider that it was reasonable for Metro Bank to rely on the CIFAS database when 
taking its decision. It didnt have to conduct its own investigation into why the other 
organisation had recorded the marker, or whether it was correct. And the presence of a 
CIFAS marker relating to fraud, clearly met Metro Banks terms and conditions for closing a 
customers accounts.
I know this will not be the outcome Mr H was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont be 
asking Metro Bank to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman