DRN-3269453
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do more to help him when he was the victim
of a scam.
Background
Mr B has an account with HSBC. In February 2019, he used that account to authorise an
international payment of just over £16,000. He believed he was making the payment in
connection with an investment opportunity. Unfortunately, that payment wasnt made to a
legitimate business but to a scammer.
Mr B said that hed inherited some money and was looking for an investment opportunity. He
told us that hed seen a television advert where celebrities were talking about investing in
cryptocurrency. This prompted him to look online where he found a directory of brokers
purporting to offer investment services. He contacted two of them  one of which was later
the subject of a warning on the website of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA).
Mr B spoke with a representative of one of the companies who persuaded him to open an
account and make investments. I understand they appeared to be earning a return which
gave Mr B the false confidence that this was a legitimate investment and not a scam.
In June 2019, Mr B realised hed fallen victim to a scam. He contacted HSBC and asked it to
retrospectively cancel the transaction and refund it to him. HSBC declined to pay him a
refund. It said that it had made the payment in line with Mr Bs instructions and that, as its 
attempt to recover his money from the account it was paid into had been unsuccessful, there 
was nothing more it could do.
Mr B was unhappy with the response he received from HSBC and so he referred a complaint
to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator noted that
good industry practice required HSBC to be on the lookout for account activity that was
unusual or out of character that might indicate that their customer was at risk of becoming a
victim of fraud. She was satisfied that there were clear indicators that this payment was out
of character and didnt think HSBC shouldve processed it without making further enquiries
with Mr B.
If it had done so, she thought it was likely Mr B wouldve been candid with HSBC about what
he was trying to do with the money. HSBC couldve checked the firm on the FCA Register to
see whether he was investing with a regulated business. If it had taken some straightforward
steps at this point and discussed with Mr B the risks he was taking, the investigator thought it
was likely that the scam wouldve been prevented.
HSBC disagreed with the Investigators opinion. Its response was lengthy, but the crux was
that Mr B hadnt been sufficiently careful. There was no evidence hed carried out any due
diligence or checks before making his investment. HSBC contended that hed been
contributorily negligent and should be considered at least partly responsible for his losses. It
also argued that it didnt think any intervention on its part wouldve made any difference
because Mr B was confident in the investment he was making.
Because HSBC disagreed with the investigators opinion the complaint was passed to me to 
consider. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional findings on 16 December 2021 and said the following:
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with 
the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. That was the case in February 2019, and remains so now, and I have taken 
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
It is common ground that Mr B authorised the scam payment. He was duped by the
scammers into instructing his bank to transfer that sum to their account. They 
deceived him into thinking that he was investing his money with a legitimate 
investment manager. I accept that this was therefore an authorised payment even 
though Mr B was the victim of a scam. Although he did not intend the money to go to 
the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of the account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
But that is not the end of the story:
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with 
due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to 
establish and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with 
applicable requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for 
countering the risk that the firm might be used to further financial crime 
(SYSC 3.2.6R, which has applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA 
and its successor the FCA have published a series of papers setting out non-
exhaustive examples of good and poor practice found when reviewing 
measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering 
and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. In February 2019, 
those requirements included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive 
policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering 
risk  for example through customer due diligence measures and the ongoing 
monitoring of the business relationship (including through the scrutiny of 
transactions undertaken throughout the course of the relationship).
The law itself also recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it 
makes a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds 
(although not necessarily proof) for believing that the payment instruction was 
an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its customer (known as the 
Quincecare duty). I am mindful, however, that the courts have interpreted 
Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are different to that case and I am not suggesting Quincecare applies in this case, only to 
make the point that the broad legal position that a bank is expected to 
process payments that a customer authorises is not absolute and Quincecare 
(like the other matters I have referred to here) is an example of that.
In addition, as a matter of good industry practice in 2019, I consider firms should in 
any event have taken proactive steps to:
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers 
Associations February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in 
vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when 
available.
I agree with the Investigators conclusion that this payment was out of character. Ive 
looked at statement data for Mr Bs account for the months running up to the scam 
and there are payments of a similar size. However, this payment was made to a new 
payee and to an overseas account. Its also significant that this transfer drained both 
his current account and savings account balances. Account movements like this 
occur frequently in scams of this kind. For these reasons, I dont think HSBC should 
have processed this payment until it had made enquiries with Mr B to satisfy itself 
that he wasnt at risk of financial harm.
If HSBC had queried the payment, I think its likely theyd have uncovered that it was 
a scam. If Mr B had been asked to (for example) check the FCA Register, hed have
discovered that the intended recipient wasnt a regulated business. HSBC couldve 
warned Mr B that this meant there was essentially no protection for him as a 
consumer if he paid this business. Overall, I think that if HSBC had intervened, its 
likely that the scam wouldve been prevented.
However, Ive also considered whether Mr B should be considered partly responsible 
for his losses here. Ive borne in mind the law on contributory negligence, but also the 
fact that I need to reach a decision on this case based on what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
HSBC has argued that he was careless  it says he shouldve carried out more 
detailed checks before agreeing to make the payment. From the evidence that Mr B 
has submitted so far, its very difficult for me to decide on this point. I need to be 
satisfied that he acted reasonably in the face of the information that was presented to 
him by the scammer and that he didnt go ahead with the payment in the face of an 
obvious risk.
At the time he made his complaint, he gave only basic details about how this scam 
took place. I understand he ended up looking at information about the scam business 
on a website, but hes not been able to share any details of that website. I 
understand that the bulk of the communications he had with the scammer took place 
on WhatsApp, but he hasnt shared any of those messages with us. Similarly, hes 
said that he was provided with fake documentation in PDF form but hasnt been able 
to provide copies of any of these.HSBC ought to have intervened and questioned this payment with Mr B. It should 
therefore pay him compensation. However, without further evidence, I cant rule out 
the possibility that Mr B acted carelessly here. In view of that, I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to direct HSBC to refund his losses in full and so I intend 
to direct HSBC to pay 50% of the payment Mr B made to the scammers.
HSBC responded to say it, while it didnt entirely agree with the findings Id reached, it was 
willing to pay the settlement Id recommended. Mr B didnt respond to my provisional 
decision. As Ive not received any further arguments or information from Mr B, Im upholding 
this complaint for the reasons I set out in full in my provisional findings.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
If Mr B accepts my decision, HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to pay Mr B:
- 50% of the payment he made to the scammer.
- Mr B paid the scammer with money he transferred from a savings account. HSBC 
therefore needs to add interest to the refund calculated using the rate that applied to 
his savings account. This needs to be calculated from the date Mr B made the 
payment until the date a settlement is paid to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman