DRN-4173840
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
declined their claim against their travel insurance policy. Reference to Chaucer includes its 
agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 22 April 2022, Mr and Mrs C planned a trip with intended 
departure and return dates of 9 July 2022 and 17 July 2022 respectively. On                 
29 April 2022, they took out a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by Chaucer. 
In October 2021, Mr Cs mother, who Ill refer to as Mrs C1, was diagnosed with 
metastatic melanoma. In May 2022, Mrs C1s health deteriorated. I understand that    
Mrs C started to receive end-of-life care on 8 July 2022 and Mr and Mrs C were advised 
to cancel their trip. Mrs C contacted Chaucer. Its not in dispute that Chaucer told Mrs C 
that they had a valid claim for cancellation. Mr and Mrs C cancelled their trip. I 
understand that Mrs C1 died shortly afterwards. 
In late July 2022, Mr and Mrs C made a claim against the policy in relation to their 
cancellation costs. In October 2022, Chaucer declined the claim. It relied on an exclusion 
in the policy in relation to claims arising as a result of an existing medical condition of a 
non-travelling close relative. Chaucer said that there was no cover for what happened 
here. It apologised for giving incorrect information about the claim and raising 
expectations. It also apologised for its delay in dealing with the claim. Chaucer offered 
Mr and Mrs C compensation of £100 in relation to service issues.  
Mr and Mrs C didnt think that was fair. They say that the deterioration of Mrs C1s health        
was entirely unexpected as she received positive news about her health in January 2022 
and wasnt due to see her oncology team again until August 2022. Mr and Mrs C say 
that the speed of events was a complete shock. They say that they had no reason to 
believed theyd have to cancel their trip at the time of booking. Mr and Mrs C say that 
when they contacted Chaucer in July 2022, they were told that they would be covered in 
this scenario. They say that if they hadnt been given incorrect information they may 
have made a different decision about the trip. Mr and Mrs C also complain about 
Chaucers delay in dealing with their claim. They want Chaucer to pay their claim.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Chaucer 
had acted unfairly in declining the claim. That was because it had excluded any claim 
arising as a result of an existing medical condition of a non-travelling close relative. The 
investigator said that the medical evidence supports Chaucers conclusion. She thought 
that Chaucers offer of compensation of £100 was fair in relation to service issues. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. They say that shed overlooked the doctors 
comment that there is no way they could have known that theyd need to cancel their trip at 
the time of booking. The investigator considered Mr and Mrs Cs response but didnt change 
her view. Mr and Mrs C asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable sympathy for Mr and Mrs C and Im sorry to hear of the circumstances 
which led to the claim. 
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Important conditions relating to health
[]
We are unable to provide cover for any claim arising as a result of an existing medical 
condition of a non-travelling close relative [] or any known or recognised complication of 
or caused by the existing medical condition. 
BE AWARE! We do not provide any cover for:
[]
Claims caused by an existing medical condition of a non-travelling close relative 
[] or any known or recognised complication of or caused by the existing medical 
condition.  [..]
General exclusions
[]
We will not cover the following
[]
2. Any claims arising as a result of an existing medical condition of a non-travelling close 
relative [] or any known or recognised complications of or caused by the existing 
medical condition. []
The policy defines existing medical condition(s) as:
Any serious or ongoing or recurring medical condition which has been previously 
diagnosed or been investigated or treated in any way, at any time prior to travel, even if this 
condition is currently considered to be stable and under control.  
Medical condition is defined as Any disease, illness or injury, including any psychological 
conditions.
Section A  Cancelling your trip
What you are covered for under Section A
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for:
travel and accommodation expenses which you have paid or have agreed to pay 
under a contract and which you cannot get back; []
We will provide this cover if the cancellation of your trip is necessary and unavoidable as a 
result of the following.
[]
4. The death, serious illness or injury of a relative []
Please note: [] The incident giving rise to the claim must have been unexpected and not 
something you were aware of when you purchased this insurance. Please see Important 
conditions relating to health [] and General Exclusions [] for further details.
has Chaucer acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Chaucer has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont uphold          
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint because I dont think that Chaucer acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in declining their claim. I think that its offer of compensation of £100 in relation to service 
issues is fair and reasonable. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Subject to the policy terms, Mr and Mrs Cs policy provides cover for certain costs 
following cancellation of a trip following the serious illness of a relative. Theres an 
exclusion in the policy in relation to claims arising as a result of an existing medical 
condition of a non-travelling close relative. I think that Chaucer was entitled to rely 
on that exclusion and Ill explain why.
Mrs C1s diagnosis of metastatic melanoma was an existing medical condition, as 
defined by the policy. It was a serious, ongoing, diagnosed medical condition. I 
note what Mr and Mrs C about Mrs C1s state of health at the time they booked 
their trip and took out the policy. I accept that they couldnt have foreseen that    
Mrs C1s medical condition would cause the cancellation of their trip. Thats 
confirmed in the medical certificate. But that doesnt alter the outcome here. Thats 
because Mrs C1s medical condition was an existing medical condition even if it 
was stable and under control. And the policy excludes claims arising out of an 
existing medical condition. 
Its common for this type of policy to exclude claims arising out of existing medical 
conditions. I think that Chaucer made the exclusion sufficiently clear so that               
Mr and Mrs C could determine whether the policy was right for them.Its common ground that when Mrs C phoned Chaucer in July 2022, she was led to 
believe that she could make a successful claim for cancellation. When mistakes 
like this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect information is 
true. We look to see the effect of the error on the individuals. 
Mr and Mrs C say that they may have made a different decision about cancelling 
their trip if theyd received correct information. On balance, I dont think I can safely 
conclude that Mr and Mrs C would have acted differently if theyd been told that 
their claim for cancellation costs wouldnt be covered. According to the medical 
certificate, Mr and Mrs C were advised to cancel their trip on 8 July 2022. Given 
Mrs C1s rapid decline in health, I think its more likely than not that they would 
have cancelled their trip even if Chaucer had informed them correctly that their 
claim wasnt covered. I think that  Mr and Mrs C were subsequently understandably 
disappointed to learn the true position. 
Chaucer took much longer than wed reasonably expect to deal with the claim.     
Mr and Mrs C made their claim in late July 2022 but didnt receive Chaucers 
decision until October 2022. 
I think that Chaucers offer of compensation of £100 in relation to incorrect 
information and the delay in dealing with the claim is fair and reasonable. In 
reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the 
errors it made. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.   
If Mr and Mrs C wish to accept the offer Chaucer made previously, they should contact it 
direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman