DRN-2630563
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In September 2002 Mrs B filled in a credit card application that shed received in the post 
and at the same time she applied for PPI. 
Barclaycard issued her with a credit card and the policy protected her card monthly 
repayments if she couldnt work.
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough information to uphold this complaint because the 
policy didn't cover accident and sickness claims if they resulted from health problems Mrs B 
already had when the policy started. And Mrs B had mentioned having a health condition at 
the time - so if she needed to claim for this, our adjudicator didnt think she would've been 
able to. 
Our adjudicator felt that it was important that Mrs B had understood this so she could make a 
fair choice about taking out the PPI. But our adjudicator didn't think that Barclays did enough 
to make this policy restriction clear to Mrs B - if it had, our adjudicator didn't think Mrs B 
would've taken the policy out. 
Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
It mainly said that it looked like Mrs B was able to manage her condition and it wasnt a 
reason to say that the policy was mis-sold to her. It said that Mrs B hadnt been able to recall 
ever having to take time off work because of her condition and Barclays thought it unlikely 
that the condition would cause Mrs B to be off work for long enough to claim on the policy. It 
pointed out that she could claim for other conditions and any of the other policy benefits  
and that she made a successful claim for redundancy in 2007. 
Barclays wasnt willing to uphold the complaint so the complaint came to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told up to now, I dont plan to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I think that Barclays made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. 
Mrs B told us she wouldve declined PPI. But its understandable that after so long she might 
not now be able to recall in detail what happened when she took out this PPI. Although its a 
poor quality copy, it does look like the option to take out PPI is marked with a tick on the form 
Mrs B signed. And there were other optional features available that she appears not to have 
ticked. So, I think its likely that Mrs B understood that it was up to her to choose if she 
wanted PPI. And it appears that Mrs B decided at the time that PPI would be useful and she 
chose to add it to her Barclaycard account.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave her enough clear information so she could 
decide for herself if she wanted to have PPI. 
Its possible some information Barclays gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. So I need to consider if Mrs B wouldve acted differently, and not bought the 
policy, if clearer information had been provided. 
Mrs B was eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account that Mrs Bs employer wouldve paid 
her 6 months sick pay. But the PPI provided better protection than she couldve relied on 
getting through her employer. The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months 
if Mrs B was off work sick. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs B with a 
useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
The policy also provided cover for up to 12 months if Mrs B lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
I dont know if she wouldve always had savings to rely on. And the amount of savings shes 
mentioned isnt enough to make me think that the PPI wouldnt still have been useful. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think Mrs B couldve benefitted from having PPI.
 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. Mrs B wouldnt have been covered for 
absence from work caused by a medical condition she knew about or for which shed seen a 
doctor in the 12 months before the PPI start date. 
Ive thought carefully about the information Mrs B told us about her health around the time 
she took out this PPI. 
She told us that she was diagnosed with a medical condition some years earlier and this led 
to her having an ongoing health issue. Mrs B told us although she hasnt been prescribed 
medication for the condition itself, it limits some other medications she can take. And she 
has checks with her doctor as the condition is ongoing. 
Mrs Bs ongoing medical condition hasnt ever led to her having to take time off work.
Ive also seen some recent notes from her doctor. It seems that the health problems Mrs B 
had around three and a half years or so before she signed up for the PPI didnt lead to any 
continuing health problems for Mrs B that affected her being able to work. And her 
circumstances at the time she was first unwell were different. 
The policy paid out after 14 continuous days off work. Ive not seen enough so far to suggest 
that at the time she took out the PPI Mrs B had any reason to think shed likely be off work sick as a result of her existing medical condition for long enough to want to make a claim 
under the policy. And as far as I can see, it doesnt look like Mrs B was affected by any of 
the other terms that mightve limited the policys benefit to her. 
So, even if the policy limitation for existing medical conditions wasnt explained clearly, or at 
all, I dont think that knowing more about these policy details wouldve put her off wanting to 
take it out.
I dont know if Barclays explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs B to 
understand what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, 
I think if Mrs B had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve 
thought the policy potentially useful.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for Mrs B  and she 
took it out when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted it at the time. 
As she paid for the policy monthly, she couldve cancelled it without further cost at any time if 
her circumstances changed or she no longer wanted to pay for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs B, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance, I think shed still have taken out the policy. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I appreciate that what I've said is going to disappoint Mrs B and Im sorry to do that  but 
I hope that setting things out as I've done helps explain the reasons why Ive come to this 
view. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs B told us she was disappointed that I hadnt upheld her case and asked for some more 
time to fully review her position and seek advice. We agreed to this. Mrs B hasnt been in 
touch with us further and the deadline for her to send final comments has passed. 
Barclays confirmed to us that it had no further information to provide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B
Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this so theres 
nothing more Barclays needs to do to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman