DRN-4034407
The complaint
Mr K complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) gave a poor level of service 
when he made a claim on his home insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr K found water under his kitchen floor. He made a claim on his home 
insurance policy that he held with Admiral. Admiral instructed its approved loss adjuster to 
look into the claim. 
An approved technician attended to look at the issue. It was found that a soil pipe was 
leaking underneath the kitchen floor and needed repair. The repair to the soil pipe was 
carried out in May 2022.
The damp caused by the leak then had to be dried out before any further repairs could be 
completed. A dehumidifier and fan were installed. These were running seven days a week. 
Mr K  said the noise from these machines was constant and he found it stressful to be in his 
home. He said he had to spend a lot of time at his neighbours to get away from the situation.  
Whilst the repairs and restoration work was taking place Mr K was unable to use all the 
rooms in his home. The kitchen was damp, and the kitchen and lounge had the dehumidifier 
running. His furniture also had to be moved upstairs.
In September 2022 after heavy rainfall Mr K found water again under the kitchen floor. He 
made Admiral aware of this on 12 September 2022. He did  not hear back from Admiral as it 
had agreed and so on 30 September 2022 he made a complaint.
Admiral paid Mr K £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him plus £30 to cover 
the cost of phone calls he had to make to it. 
As Mr K was not happy with the amount of compensation offered by Admiral, he brought the 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. looked into the case and said that Admiral did accept 
there had been service issues but the £400 it had offered should be increased by a further 
£350 as the errors caused significant trouble to Mr K. They said the total compensation 
should be £750 and £30 for the cost of phone calls.
As Admiral is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the timeline of Mr Ks claim. The claim was made in February 2022, and he made 
a complaint in September 2022 at which point the claim was still ongoing.
I saw as soon as Mr K made his claim Admiral instructed an approved technician to locate 
the leak. Admiral also instructed an approved loss adjuster to manage his claim and the 
required rectification work. 
After the leak was located and repaired a dehumidifier was installed in the kitchen to dry out 
the damp caused by the leak. This meant Mr K was unable to make full use of his kitchen. 
The dehumidifier only worked properly for two weeks. After this time Mr K had to empty 
water from a tray in the dehumidifier machine on a daily basis. The dehumidifier was running 
in the kitchen from May to mid-June. It was then moved to the lounge.
Mr K had moved the furniture from his lounge upstairs which limited the space he had in his 
home even further. He said he was not told by Admiral when it came out in June 2022 that 
he could move it back downstairs.
The dehumidifier and fan continued to run until mid-August 2022. Mr K was then informed 
the floorboards and floor joists needed to be replaced.
In August 2022 Admirals approved loss adjuster told Mr K that he could have claimed a 
daily disturbance allowance of £10 per day. Mr K contacted Admiral and made a claim for 
this allowance, and it was paid from the start of his claim in February 2022.
From the evidence I have reviewed I think Admiral could have been more proactive in 
checking on progress with Mr K. I saw evidence of Mr K having to contact Admiral to try and 
progress repairs and find out what was going on in addition to speaking with the approved 
loss adjuster.
I saw that there were staff changes at both the contractor and loss adjuster which caused 
avoidable delays when his claim was not progressed. This was because after staff had left 
the business Mr Ks claim was not picked up by other staff members immediately as 
expected. 
I saw evidence that in August 2022 Admirals approved contractor informed Mr K that he 
may be able to claim for alternative accommodation. I think that Admiral should have brought 
this to Mr Ks attention nearer the start of his claim when the high level of damp was found, 
and it was realised this was a claim that would take quite some time to conclude due to the 
work that was required.
   
I saw evidence of dehumidifiers being installed and then time spent drying Mr Ks property 
out. I do not think an accurate timescale could be put on the drying process. I cannot hold 
Admiral responsible for the amount of time this part of the repair work took. But it should 
have kept him updated on how the drying process was progressing.
I think the issues in this case have mainly been caused by a lack of contact by Admiral and 
its approved contractors. Mr K should have been kept updated on a regular basis about 
progress and next steps of  the repairs from the start of the claim and not just after he made 
a complaint.
I saw that Admiral accepted that there had been a lack of proactive contact to Mr K. It said it should have given him 
more updates and kept him advised about what was happening and the next steps of the 
claim, and this had caused delays. 
that it should have explored alternative accommodation with him earlier in his claim.
that the noise of the dehumidifiers was unsettling and although due to the nature of the 
claim there would be some form of disruption it should not have an impact on his health.  
The impact of Admirals contractors delays and lack of contact from Admiral itself has 
caused considerable distress, upset, and worry to Mr K over many weeks and months. 
Significant inconvenience and day to day disruption to Mr K could have been reduced if 
Admiral had discussed alternative accommodation with him earlier in the claim process.
Taking into consideration all the points above, I do not think the compensation of £400 paid 
by Admiral is fair. I do not think it covers for the amount of stress and the length of time the 
inconvenience continued.
Therefore, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and require Admiral to increase its offer of 
compensation by a further £350. Making the total compensation for the combination of 
issues caused to £750.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr K a further £350 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to him by its lack of contact and avoidable delays. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman