DRN-4156947
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC defaulted her account.
What happened
Miss T had a Barclays current account which she left to go dormant in 2013 as shed opened 
accounts with a different bank. 
In April 2023, Miss T raised a complaint with Barclays as shed discovered that Barclays had 
defaulted her account because of an unpaid overdrawn balance about which shed never 
been made aware. 
Barclays responded to Miss T and explained that the overdrawn balance had been incurred 
because of a direct debit that had remained active on the account since 2013. Barclays also 
explained that theyd sent account statements and arrears correspondence to Miss T, and so 
didnt feel theyd done anything wrong by administering the account as they had. Miss T 
wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss T 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T has explained that she abandoned the Barclays account in 2013, at which time she 
intended for the account to go dormant and to not be used by her again. 
But its notable from the account statements that, while it was the case that Miss T last used 
the account in 2013, the last transaction left the account with a balance in credit of £196.26. 
And its unusual for an account to be abandoned with no future planned use with a relatively 
large amount of money remaining in that account, as was the case here.
Additionally, Barclays have explained that an annual direct debit remained active on the 
account. And the annual payment of this direct debit eroded the balance present in the 
account and took the account into the arranged overdraft in 2015.
The continuing payment of the annual direct debit caused the overdrawn balance of the 
account to exceed the agreed overdraft limit in 2017, and in 2019 the overdraft facility on the 
account was removed because of the unauthorised overdraft position and the lack of 
payments into the account during the preceding years. Then, in 2020, Barclays began the 
process of defaulting the account, which took place in May of that year.
Importantly, Barclays have been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that they sent 
correspondence about the account to Miss T throughout the years that Miss T had 
abandoned it  from 2013 onwards  and that this correspondence was sent to Miss Ts 
correct address  the address which Miss T has provided to this service as being hers.
It's therefore difficult to see what Barclays did wrong here. Miss T left the account open with 
a balance in credit and an active direct debit. And Barclays wrote to Miss T regularly 
informing her of the position and status of her account, including when it went into an 
agreed, and then an unagreed, overdrawn position, and when the process to default the 
account because of the unpaid overdrawn balance commenced.
Im also satisfied that Miss T had a prolonged opportunity to avoid the defaulting of her 
account during the many years that this matter has progressed. Ultimately, as the account 
holder, it was Miss Ts responsibility to have been aware of the balance and status of the 
account, via any of the several channels available for her to do so. But it appears that Miss T 
may have ignored the letters that Barclays sent to her about her account, and that she didnt 
maintain an awareness of the account by any other channel. And if this was the case, then 
its not Barclays fault that the account defaulted as it did.
Finally, Miss T has said that she cancelled the direct debit in question when she abandoned 
the account. This service can only consider complaint points that have previously been 
raised with the respondent business and which therefore that business has had an 
opportunity to consider and respond to. But this aspect of Miss Ts complaint hasnt 
previously been raised with Barclays, and so if Miss T wishes to pursue this aspect of her 
complaint, I can only refer her to Barclays to raise it with them directly in the first instance.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably here as 
Miss T contends, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Barclays to take any further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Miss T was 
wanting, but I hope that shell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman