DRN-4245362
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money it lost when it 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
S is a limited company and, in July 2022, it was looking to purchase a van. It saw one it was 
interested in for sale on an online auction website and so contacted the seller. And after 
exchanging a number of messages with the seller, S agreed a price and made two payments 
to the account details the seller gave it as a deposit. Ive set out the payments S made 
below:
Date Amount
23 July 2022 £2,495
23 July 2022 £2,000
It was agreed the seller would deliver the van to C the following day. But, when the van 
didnt arrive and it couldnt get in touch with the seller anymore, S reported the payments to 
Monzo as a scam and asked it to refund the money it had lost.
Monzo investigated, but said it had made the payments in line with Ss instructions and didnt 
think S had taken sufficient steps to check the seller was legitimate before making the 
payments. So it didnt agree to refund the payments. S wasnt satisfied with Monzos 
response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think S had a reasonable basis 
for believing that the payments were legitimate. But they also thought Monzo should have 
provided an effective warning to S before allowing the second payment to go through. So 
they thought Monzo should refund 50% of the second payment. S disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has said it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. This code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment 
scams, like the one S fell victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for 
the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did S have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
I appreciate that this was a sophisticated scam and that S had done a number of checks to 
satisfy itself that the sale of the van was genuine. But I also think there were a number of 
things about what was happening and what it was told that ought to have caused S 
significant concern.
From the independent valuations our service has carried out on the van S thought it was 
buying, it appears that the seller was listing it for sale at significantly below market value. 
Even before the discount S negotiated, the van appears to have been listed at less than 60% 
of the usual market value for a van of the same age, make and model. And as S has said it 
was checking a number of listing websites, I think its reasonable to expect it to have noticed 
this and to have been concerned that the price the van was being listed at was too good to 
be true.
The account that listed the van for sale on the online auction website didnt have any 
previous feedback or reviews on the website. But as this account was representing a 
company that was supposedly listing hundreds of other vehicles for sale, I think this lack of 
feedback should have caused S significant concern.
S was also asked to pay the money for the deposit to the personal account of an individual, 
rather than to the business account of the company it thought it was buying the van from. 
The name it was given for the personal account doesnt match the name of the director of 
the company. And it doesnt appear to have been given any explanation, or asked for any 
proof, of who the person it was paying was or that they were connected to the selling 
company. And I think this should have caused S significant concern too.
While S had done some checks into the sale, I think the issues Ive mentioned above should 
have caused it significant concern. And I dont think the seemingly genuine information it 
saw from the checks it had done should have been enough to overcome those concerns.
So I think Monzo has established that S made the payments without a reasonable basis for 
belief that they were genuine. And so it has established that one of the exceptions to 
reimbursement under the CRM code applies here, and it does not have to refund S all of the 
money it lost.
Did Monzo meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think S had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, it 
may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money it lost if Monzo didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings when it 
identifies a scam risk.The first payment S made wasnt for what Id consider to be a particularly large amount. 
There were a number of payments out of Ss account in the previous months for what Id 
consider to be similar amounts. And this first payment didnt use up all the available balance 
in the account or leave the balance of the account at a particularly unusual level. So I dont 
think Monzo ought to have identified a scam risk as a result of this first payment.
But when S tried to make the second payment, it had then tried to make two payments within 
a relatively short period of time to someone it had never paid before  which can be a 
suspicious pattern often seen in scams. And the total value of the two payments was 
significantly higher. So I think Monzo ought to have identified a scam risk as a result of the 
second payment, and shown S an effective warning before allowing it to go through.
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Monzo has sent us a copy of the warning it says S was shown before it made the payments, 
which said:
Could someone be trying to scam you?
Stop if:
You were told your account is at risk, to make an unexpected payment, or to take out 
a loan
The offer sounds too good to be true
You havent double-checked who youre paying
You were told to ignore warnings like this
You may lose money if this is a scam.
If youre at all unsure, stop and get advice.
While the warning does mention offers that are too good to be true and double-checking who 
you are paying, the rest of the things mentioned in it arent really relevant to Ss 
circumstances. The warning doesnt give much detail about what this kind of scam could 
look or feel like. And I dont think it does enough to highlight the seriousness of the risks or 
what steps someone could take to try to avoid falling victim to a scam.
So I dont think this warning was specific or impactful enough to be effective in Cs 
circumstances. And so I dont think Monzo has met its obligations under the CRM code.
Overall then, I think Monzo has established that S made the payments without a reasonable 
basis for belief that they were genuine. But I also think Monzo has failed to meet its 
obligations in relation to the second payment. So I think S is entitled to a refund of 50% of 
the second payment under the CRM code.As I think S is entitled to this refund under the CRM code, I think Monzo should have agreed 
to it when it first assessed Ss claim. And so I think Monzo should also pay S 8% simple 
interest on the refund, from the date it initially declined Ss claim until the date of settlement.
Did Monzo do enough to try to recover the money S lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
But Monzos evidence shows the money was removed from the account it was sent to before 
Monzo was made aware of the scam. So I dont think anything we would reasonably have 
expected Monzo to do could have recovered the money S lost, and so I wont be asking it to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Monzo Bank Ltd 
to:
Refund S 50% of the second payment  totalling £1,000
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially rejected Ss claim until 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman