DRN-3659182
The complaint
Mr K complains about the advice he received from AFH Independent Financial Services 
Limited (AFH) to switch from his personal pension plans to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) so that he could use the services of its Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM).
Mr K is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). Any reference to 
Mr K will include information received from the CMC.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 2 August 2022 upholding the complaint. Both parties have 
accepted the outcome. In summary the background to this complaint is as follows:
In August 2018, Mr K transferred from a defined benefit (DB) pension with his 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a Scottish Widows Retirement Plan (SW 
plan). This followed advice from an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). AFH had no 
involvement in this advice.
Once transferred from his OPS, Mr Ks pension funds were invested as follows:
- The SW plan had a value of around £988,086. The SW fund invested 
predominately in equities including a small proportion in listed property securities 
and had some exposure to fixed interest securities.
- Mr K also held a SIPP with Transact which was valued at around £45,314. This 
was already invested in an AFH Discretionary Portfolio for a client with an attitude 
to risk (ATR) of 3.
In summary, Mr Ks circumstances at the time of the advice was as follows: he was 
55 years old and was married; his yearly salary was £54,000; he wanted to retire at 
56 years old with a yearly salary of £40,000; his yearly expenses were £30,000; his 
home was jointly owned, valued at £450,000 and mortgage free and; he had 
investments in his employers company valued at £80,000. 
AFH assessed Mr Ks attitude to risk as 3. The portfolio for this risk rating was 
described by AFH as trying to strike a balance between long-term capital protection 
and exposure to assets that had the potential to offer real rate of returns. And it was 
always likely to have a minimum exposure to equities which would be a maximum of 
70% of the portfolio.
The suitability report dated 14 January 2019, recorded that Mr K met with the AFH 
DFM managers. And because his pension funds were over £1million, he wanted a 
bespoke management and portfolio design to manage his pension funds. 
The adviser went on to say Mr K was fully aware bespoke type services involved 
additional risk and the strategy would concentrate on outperforming over and above 
his stated risk profile. The adviser said Mr K had accepted there was a higher cost 
associated with a DFM service, but that he (Mr K) was willing to pay a premium for 
this type of service.
In terms of the charges, the total transfer value of Mr Ks pensions by the date of the 
suitability report, was noted to be £1,031,086. The initial AFH adviser charge was 1% 
which equated to £10,310. Other cost comparisons set out in the suitability report 
were as follows:
- Transact SIPP  total cost 2.01% which included ongoing management costs 
(OMC) of 1%.
- SW plan  0.78% which included OMC of 0.50%.
- AFH DFM  2.20% which included OMC of 1.50%.
In addition to the above costs, AFH recommended that Mr K switch to a James Hay 
SIPP as it was only through this that he could use its Private Wealth DFM services. 
Cost comparisons were shown in the suitability report as follows:
- James Hay platform costs was 0.20% - SW plan was nil and Transact was 
0.68%.
- James Hay annual fee was £195 - SW plan was 0.08% and Transact was £80.
- James Hay drawdown annual fee was £150 - the SW plan and Transact were nil.
- James Hay tax-free cash lump sum withdrawal was £100 per crystallisation - the 
SW plan and Transact was nil.
- James Hay dealing charges were £25 per trade - SW plan was nil and Transact 
dealing charges were £3.75 per trade.
- The James Hay transfer out charge was £150 - the SW plan and Transact was 
nil.
The adviser recommended the transfer to the James Hay SIPP and AFH Private 
Wealth service (DFM service) on the following basis:
- The adviser didnt think Mr Ks objectives could be achieved without moving to an 
alternative scheme.
- Although Mr K would incur additional costs the adviser was satisfied these were 
justified given his (Mr Ks) personalised investment objectives.
- Mr K had confirmed the cost was not a main objective and it was more about 
accessing an enhanced investment service. 
- Mr K required a service that was more bespoke to his views on the type of assets 
he would wish his investment funds to engage with.
- Mr K was unable to gain access to his preferred investment management service 
offered through AFH Private Wealth.
Im now issuing my final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have added nothing further, my final decision remains as set out in my 
provisional decision which is as follows:
AFH was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the 
overarching Principles for Businesses  principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and 
diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.Amongst other things, to fulfil its duties AFH had to know its client, act in his best interests, 
and give suitable advice. Taking into account Mr Ks circumstances, Im not persuaded that 
the switch and subsequent investment via a DFM was suitable. This came at significant cost 
and resulted in him incurring additional fees in respect of his pension.
By switching his existing pensions to one SIPP with a DFM service, Mr K incurred additional 
costs. On top of an initial advice fee of just over £10,000, he was paying higher ongoing 
charges. This significantly increased his costs because his main pension fund with SW, 
which was just under £1million, had previous ongoing charges of 0.78%. When Mr K 
transferred to James Hay so that he could use AFHs DFM services, he was now liable to 
pay ongoing fees to a SIPP provider as Ive outlined above, along with 2.20% for the DFM 
services from AFH.
I can see the costs were clearly set out to Mr K in the suitability report and in other 
paperwork. He was also given illustrations showing the impact of the costs on his pension 
funds. But I dont think him being given clear, fair and not misleading information, made the 
advice suitable for him. I also dont think providing suitable risk warnings, made unsuitable 
advice, suitable. It was for AFH to make this assessment based on a number of factors.
Mr Ks pension was substantial, and he was relying on this to produce a significant income in 
his (early) retirement. His risk was assessed to be balanced; this appears to have been 
broadly cautious-medium. His investment needs could easily have been met by his existing 
plan arrangement through the SW investment funds at a much lower cost.
Theres also no indication that Mr K was unhappy with his existing arrangements. He met the 
AFH adviser prior to receiving his DB transfer advice. But this transfer had only happened 
around six months prior to the advice to switch to new pension plans. So, Mr K hadnt had an 
opportunity to see how the SW plan in particular, had performed. And it seems it was a 
referral from an AFH adviser that led Mr K to seek its advice. In my view, the switch appears 
to have been driven by the adviser not Mr K. And its not been suggested Mr K was an 
insistent client or that he was otherwise likely to go against suitable advice from his adviser.
It should also be noted that due to the transfer advice regarding his DB scheme, less than 
six months before he received advice from AFH, Mr K wouldve incurred initial adviser fees 
there also. And then within a very short space of time, he incurred an additional £10,000 
worth of initial adviser fees. He was then subject to even higher ongoing fees. Mr K hasnt 
been able to provide the suitability report in respect of the DB/ OPS transfer advice, and as 
far as Im aware, he has not complained about this advice to date. But I wouldve thought 
that if a DFM service was thought suitable for him when he had transferred, it would have 
been recommended as part of advice given only six months earlier.
That said, the use of a DFM did mean Mr Ks pension funds were being closely monitored 
and shouldve required little oversight from him. And the suitability report said in several 
places that Mr K was looking for a bespoke service, which seemed to be his main 
motivation for wanting to switch his pension arrangements to AFH. AFH noted in the 
suitability report this would give Mr K direct access to his own bespoke investment manager 
and would give him confidence that his funds were being managed by an investment 
professional, where the portfolio would be designed to his own specific retirement objectives.
But from what I can see, Mr Ks investment fund with SW was already being managed by an 
investment professional. And from the fund fact sheet, the investment fund itself met with 
Mr Ks objectives of growth and to meet his retirement needs. I cant fairly see having a 
bespoke service had previously been an issue for him. Given Mr Ks circumstances and attitude to risk, if hed been suitably invested, I dont think his pension required the kind of 
level of oversight/management the DFM was offering.
Further, there was no indication that investment through a DFM would get Mr K better 
returns which would outweigh the higher charges. Being a balanced investor and with not a 
lot of investment experience, I think Mr K would have benefitted more from a low-cost and 
more basic arrangement which could have been reviewed on an annual basis by the adviser 
to make sure he was still invested appropriately and kept informed. I also note he wanted 
advice about his drawdown options but he didnt need a DFM service to help him with this. 
A key consideration should have been to keep charges as low as possible as these would 
certainly affect growth.
The regulator made clear in 2009 that a pension switch was unsuitable if the new 
arrangement incurred extra costs without good reason. And for the reasons Ive set out 
above, overall, I see no real justification for the requirement of a DFM service and incurrence 
of the additional costs associated with this.
I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude Mr K was likely to disregard suitable 
advice. I know AFH has said Mr K wanted its services but his primary reason for 
approaching AFH was to receive suitable advice. And it seems the idea of a DFM was 
introduced to Mr K by one of its advisers prior to him (the adviser) joining AFH. Given what 
AFH said about the benefits of a DFM, this may have seemed attractive to an inexperienced 
investor such as Mr K. But Im not persuaded, as Ive said, it was needed given the 
increased costs and the funds already available to him via his SW plan and Transact SIPP.
So, I think that but for AFHs unsuitable advice Mr K wouldve retained his existing pension 
arrangements and not incurred the additional costs associated with this advice. 
For all these reasons, I am upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr K should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr K would have remained with his 
previous providers Scottish Widows and Transact (the previous providers). However, I 
cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policies would have 
been worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr K's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must AFH Independent Financial Services Limited do?
To compensate Mr K fairly, AFH Independent Financial Services Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr K's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
AFH Independent Financial Services Limited should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, AFH Independent Financial Services Limited should pay into 
Mr K's pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and 
any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If AFH Independent Financial Services Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr K's pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been 
possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore 
the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation 
is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr K wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr K's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that 
Mr K is likely to be a higher rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal 40%. However, if Mr K would have been able to take a tax 
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 30%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AFH Independent Financial 
Services Limited deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr K how much 
has been taken off. AFH Independent Financial Services Limited should give Mr K a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr K asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
James Hay
SIPPStill exists 
and liquidNotional value 
from previous 
providersDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr K's investment had it remained with the previous providers until the 
end date. AFH Independent Financial Services Limited should request that the previous 
providers calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the James Hay SIPP should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the James Hay SIPP should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if AFH Independent Financial Services Limited totals all 
those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead 
of deducting periodically.If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, AFH Independent 
Financial Services Limited will need to determine a fair value for Mr K's investment instead, 
using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The 
adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which 
is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr K wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr K's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that AFH Independent Financial Services Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman