DRN-3586794
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited declined a claim she made 
on her private medical and dental insurance policy and that she wasnt notified the policy 
had been cancelled. 
What happened
Ms W was a member of her employers group private and dental insurance policy. Ms W left 
that employment at the end of 2021. She claimed on the policy in January 2022 and was told 
that the policy had ended in December 2021. 
Ms W said that she wasnt aware the policy had ended and that this was also going to 
impact her plans to take out new insurance (because she no longer had continuous cover). 
AXA said that Ms Ws employer had terminated her policy. They apologised because Ms W 
had been incorrectly told that the policy was in force in January 2022. But they noted Ms W 
had already had her treatment when shed been given this information. So, AXA said they 
wouldnt pay the claim. Unhappy, Ms W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought the policy terms and conditions made it clear it was for Ms Ws employer to notify 
members of their cover being terminated. And she didnt think Ms W had lost out as a result 
of being given incorrect information by AXA. Thats because shed already had treatment 
before she contacted AXA for help.  
Ms W didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she was not 
told the policy was cancelled and she wasnt sure when the policy was cancelled. Ms W also 
reiterated she was left without continuous cover because the policy had been cancelled in 
December 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W is unhappy the policy was cancelled. So, the starting point is the policy 
documentation. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
The policyholder will
Inform all members of the termination or non-renewal of their cover (if applicable) 
under the policy. 
Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint because: 
Ms Ws employer was the policyholder. The policy terms and conditions, which form 
the contract of insurance, say that it was for Ms Ws employer to let her know when 
cover ended, not AXA. 
Ms W hasnt got continuous medical underwriting because there was a gap in cover. 
But I dont think thats something AXA is responsible for. As Ive explained it was for 
Ms Ws employer to let her know that the cover had ended. 
Ms W was given the wrong information by AXA  she was told the policy was still 
active in January 2022. It wasnt active because cover had ended in December 2021. 
Shes also pointed out that AXA sent her a claim form. But, it doesnt automatically 
follow that her complaint should be upheld, for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
I dont think Ms W has lost out financially as a result of being given the wrong 
information. She had her treatment before contacting AXA to claim. So, I dont think 
AXA giving her the wrong information meant she went ahead with treatment that 
wasnt covered  thats because shed already made the decision to get the 
treatment. 
Ms W has told us shes unhappy with her former employer. But thats not something I 
can consider because its not within my remit to do so.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman