DRN-3631082
The complaint
Mr E complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express hasnt accepted a claim he has sought to make in relation to a payment 
he made to a third party using his credit card.
What happened
Mr E was due to fly abroad. Due to restrictions imposed because of the Covid-19 pandemic, 
he was required to take a fit to fly PCR test ahead of his departure. He arranged this with 
M, a provider of such tests, paying the £199 fee with his American Express credit card.
The test Mr E arranged was described as guaranteeing results within 48 hours. However, 
Mr E says that M didnt keep to this timescale, and that he in fact received his results about 
four hours late. He says he experienced complications with his travel arrangements on 
arriving at his destination. Mr E asked M to reimburse his payment, either in full or in part. It 
declined to do so and Mr E made a similar request of American Express.
American Express made enquiries of M by means of raising a chargeback; a card scheme 
process that in certain circumstances enables a dispute between a cardholder and merchant 
to be resolved by reference to the card scheme rules. M responded to the chargeback claim 
with a copy of its terms and conditions, saying it had no liability to reimburse Mr E.
As Mr E had paid by credit card, American Express also considered whether it was directly 
liable to Mr E under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (section 75). It took the view that it wasnt liable, based on the same line of 
reasoning cited by M and taking into account the terms and conditions it had received from 
M in response to the chargeback claim.
Mr E wasnt happy with American Expresss response. He complained to the card issuer, 
saying that M was relying on a term that wasnt in the agreement hed entered. But American 
Express wasnt willing to change its position and he referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She noted American Express 
had initially credited Mr Es account with the payment when it instigated the chargeback 
claim, but that this was reversed when American Express received Ms response. The 
investigator considered American Express was entitled to decide not to pursue the 
chargeback based on the terms M had supplied. These included its 48-hour guarantee, 
which said it would refund fees only if the customer had been unable to board their original 
flight, and sought to exclude liability for costs incurred due to delay or non-delivery of results.
The investigator also noted Mr E was able to board his flight and that he hadnt provided 
evidence to support the problems he said hed experienced on arrival at his destination. She 
said that even if a breach of contract had occurred in relation to the time taken to provide the 
test result, Mr E hadnt demonstrated this had impacted on him adversely.
Mr E didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He maintained that the terms and 
conditions M had supplied were not those hed signed up to. And he was adamant that M 
had breached the 48-hour agreement it had with him. Hes asked for this review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am conscious that in his submissions to us, Mr E has on several occasions made 
comments that suggest he feels there is an implicit bias within our service and that the 
outcome of his complaint is something of a foregone conclusion. It is unfortunate that Mr E 
feels this way; however, I trust my findings and reasons will be sufficient to demonstrate why 
Ive reached the outcome I have.
I acknowledge what Mr E has said about how the test was described and Ms terms and 
conditions. The copy M submitted containing the 48-hour guarantee exclusion wording and 
on which both it and American Express have placed emphasis is dated March 2021. He has 
provided screenshots of Ms website from 18 December 2020 (the day after he took the PCR 
test) that dont mention the exclusions. Web pages for the day in question arent available, 
though the guarantee does appear in the January 2021 archive version of the website.
Ive some sympathy for the argument that Mr E has put forward that American Express 
hasnt dealt with his claim properly by looking to rely on the guarantee exclusions. Noting 
that Mr E drew this to American Expresss attention, I think the card issuer could have done 
more to question when the guarantee exclusions were introduced into the terms and 
conditions. That said, I dont consider that this would necessarily have resulted in Mr E being 
entitled to get his money back, whether in full or in part.
I say this because while Im satisfied Ms website guaranteeing turnaround within 48 hours 
could amount to a contractual term, despite what Mr E has repeatedly said the issue here is 
not simply whether there has been a breach of contract. There is also the question of 
whether there were any material consequences. In law, its not usually enough that a party 
breaches an agreement; that breach needs to have led to loss or damage to the injured 
party. He wouldnt automatically be entitled to a refund of his payment; M did, after all, 
provide the results to Mr E a matter of a few hours outside the indicated timescale.
If this delay caused Mr E to be unable to travel on the booked flight, Id expect him to provide 
evidence of this. Id also expect that he would be able to demonstrate that a) there was 
sufficient time for him to receive his results before he was scheduled to fly and b) he hadnt 
received the test results before his flight. Our investigator did ask Mr E for further information 
about his travel arrangements. Regrettably, Mr E has been unable to provide information 
about his flights that might have helped establish these key aspects.
Without this, I cant say, for example, that the 3-day self-isolation period Mr E says he 
experienced is a consequence of Ms failure to provide the test result within the 48-hour 
period. Its possible Mr E could have received the result outside the 48-hour timescale, but 
before he flew to his destination. There may also have been regional restrictions that 
affected Mr Es stay. I think if Mr Es claim were to have any reasonable prospect of success, 
he would need to demonstrate in rather more detail the nature of the difficulties he 
experienced, and that they were a direct consequence of Ms failing rather than affected by 
any intervening event.
Overall, I find that there were shortcomings in the way that American Express handled 
Mr Es claim, but that the evidence made available to me is insufficiently persuasive that this 
led to material loss or harm to Mr E such that it would be appropriate for me to direct it to pay 
him compensation or otherwise reimburse him.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman