DRN-1557126
 
The complaint
Mr and Ms R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a life insurance policy.
What happened
In 1994 Mr and Ms R applied for an £11,000 equity release loan, secured against their 
property, with a firm that HSBC has since acquired liability for. They also set up a life 
insurance policy to run alongside the loan.
Mr and Ms R complained to HSBC about the life insurance policy in 2019. They said they 
were led to believe the policy was compulsory for the loan to be accepted and that they 
werent told they could shop around to obtain cover from other providers. They also 
explained that they were in secure employment at the time and so were financially secure. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. They said they had little information available about the 
sale of the policy due to the amount of time thats passed since it was set up. But they 
explained that while the life cover wasnt optional, as it was a condition of the loan, it didnt 
have to be with HSBC. So Mr and Ms R couldve chosen not to have gone ahead with the 
lending or sought borrowing elsewhere if they were unhappy with this condition. And 
although their adviser could only provide information or advice about HSBC life policies, the 
cancellation rights wouldve been explained to Mr and Ms R at the time  giving them the 
time to consider the policy and seek suitable cover elsewhere if they wished.
HSBC also said Mr and Ms Rs employment didnt affect the cover they applied for as the 
policy sold was life cover only. So there wasnt any sickness or redundancy cover built in to 
it. And their employee benefits wouldnt have been suitable alternatives as there wasnt a 
guarantee they would still be available when needed. Consequently, it wouldnt have 
provided HSBC with the necessary security for the loan.
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator looked in to it but he didnt think 
HSBC had acted unfairly. He explained that a lender can decide on what terms it is willing to 
offer finance and, in this case, HSBC required life insurance to be in place as security 
against the loan. He acknowledged Mr and Ms Rs point that they werent told they could 
obtain cover from a different provider but, he said if they didnt want to accept the terms on 
which the loan was offered then he thought they couldve looked elsewhere for borrowing  
exploring the different terms that other lenders might have offered.
Mr and Ms R disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr and Ms R say they werent told they could take out life cover with a different provider or 
given information about their cancellation rights. Instead, they say they were simply 
presented with the application documents to sign. While Ive taken their recollection of what 
happened in to account, the sale of the policy was about 26 years ago. And as I wasnt 
present at the time, I cant be confident about what was or wasnt discussed. 
There is also limited documentary evidence available due to time thats since passed. This 
unfortunately makes it difficult to know what information Mr and Ms R wouldve been 
provided. Ive therefore considered the circumstances of the sale and, on balance, what I 
think is most likely to have happened. 
As a condition of lending HSBC required Mr and Ms R to take out life insurance to provide 
security for the loan. But while the cover couldve been taken out with a different provider, 
thereby allowing them to shop around, theyve said this wasnt explained to them and that 
they accepted the proposed terms as theyd been a customer of HSBC for about ten years 
and so trusted them. Because of this trust, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Ms R 
wouldve applied for the life cover with HSBC regardless of whether this information had 
been provided to them or not. Ive also taken in to account that if Mr and Ms R had sought 
cover elsewhere then this wouldve likely delayed their application for the loan. So, overall, 
taking everything in to consideration Im not persuaded they wouldve done so. 
In any event, as life cover was a requirement of the loan, unless Mr and Ms R decided not to 
proceed with the application  which theyve not suggested they wouldve  then they 
wouldve always had to pay for life cover. I cant therefore be sure what loss, if any, Mr and 
Ms R may have suffered as a result of taking out the cover with HSBC.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr and Ms R are hoping for but, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think I can fairly conclude the life insurance policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman