DRN-1892900
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with how Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) handled a claim on her landlord 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mrs D made a claim on her insurance policy following an escape of water 
from the upstairs bathroom which had also caused damage to the kitchen ceiling below. 
Mrs D later added that there had been damage to the floor beams and kitchen cupboards. 
Allianz appointed a loss adjuster to review the claim.
Allianz arranged for a schedule of works to be completed but Mrs D wanted to use a local 
contractor for the works and was asked to provide estimates for this. Mrs D says she sent 
these to the loss adjuster but has been unable to provide us with a copy.
Allianz offered Mrs D a settlement of £2,000 net of the excess payable towards the claim. It 
said most of the kitchen cabinets werent damaged by the escape of water and only one 
cupboard needed to be removed. But as Mrs D intended to install a new kitchen, the 
settlement offer included a 50% contribution towards the cost of replacing the undamaged 
parts of the kitchen.
Mrs D had numerous issues with the service provided to her throughout the claim. She says 
an additional claim was logged and no one has been able to explain that, her complaint 
response was sent to a third party and the loss adjuster has been rude and failed to reply to 
correspondence. She was unhappy with delays both in terms of the claim and in receiving 
payments. And in addition to this, she says her tenant vacated the property as a result of the 
ongoing works and feels that Allianz should pay her loss of rent for this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. In short, she said the 
settlement that had been offered appeared to be fair and in line with the terms of the policy. 
And while she did agree that the customer service in this claim has been poor, she thought 
that the £250 previously offered was sufficient to reflect this. And she didnt think Allianz 
needed to pay for loss of rent as there was no evidence that was the reason the tenant 
moved out.
Mrs D didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
the claim settlement
Mrs Ds quote for the repairs was around £4,000, which included the cost of a new kitchen. 
But the loss adjuster in this claim thought that only one wall unit would need to be removed 
and possibly replaced if it was unable to be reused and that it would be possible to reuse the 
door to ensure it matched the existing set.
Mrs Ds policy states:
Matching sets and suites: We will pay You for damaged items that form part of a matching 
set or suite but not for the other items of the set or suite which are not damaged. For 
example, if one kitchen cupboard is damaged, We will replace or repair the damaged 
cupboard only, not the whole kitchen. If the damaged pairs cannot be matched or replaced 
We will pay up to 50% towards the replacement of the undamaged pairs.
It seems that despite the opinion that the damaged cupboard could be reused, Allianz has 
made Mrs D a settlement offer which includes a 50% contribution towards the cost of 
replacing the undamaged parts of the kitchen. Unfortunately both Mrs D and Allianz have 
been unable to provide this service with a copy of the quotes Mrs D says she provided to 
Allianz for me to consider. But it seems that Mrs D has previously accepted the offer made 
by Allianz and as the offer is in line with the terms of the policy, I dont think the offer made is 
unfair.
bathroom floor
There is a dispute over the discussion that took place between Mrs D and the loss adjuster. 
Mrs D says she was told there was no damage to the bathroom floors so went ahead and 
had new flooring installed. She was later told this would need to be removed in order to dry 
out the floor.
The loss adjusters comments suggest that the conversation was that the damage was likely 
to be to the floor coverings only but that she would arrange for this to be checked by the 
contractors.
While it isnt clear what was discussed between the two parties, I can see that the loss 
adjuster requested for a copy of the receipt for the flooring to be sent to her so she could 
consider it  and I havent seen any evidence that was done. Generally I would expect 
Allianz to consider all receipts sent to it but as I cant see it has received any evidence of 
these costs, I dont think its unreasonable that this wasnt included in the settlement offer.
loss of rent
Mrs D says her tenant had lived in the property for seven years and moved out as a result of 
these issues. I have seen an email to Mrs D informing her that her tenant wouldnt be 
renewing the lease, but that email doesnt suggest this is due to the ongoing works to the 
property so I dont think I can safely say that any delays caused by Allianz were the reason 
the tenant ended the tenancy. And it follows that I dont think Allianz should pay for Mrs Ds 
loss of rent as a result of her tenant choosing not to renew the lease.
payment delays and customer service
I can see there was an issue that led to a short delay in Mrs D receiving her settlement, 
which took a total of three weeks. Mrs D says that as a result of this she went into her 
overdraft as she had bought the kitchen expecting that the funds would be in her account.
I think it would have been reasonable to expect Mrs D to check the funds available in her 
account before making such a bit purchase. But Allianz has offered Mrs B £50 in respect of these delays and asked her to provide evidence of any overdraft charges she incurred, 
which it hasnt received. So taking this into account, I think the £50 offered fairly reflects any 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs D as a result of her going into her overdraft due to 
the short delay in receiving the payment from Allianz.
Mrs D is also unhappy with the way the claim was handled including delays, a second claim 
being initiated, and her correspondence being sent to the wrong address. Allianz has 
acknowledged that it (and its agents) didnt always provided the level of customer service it 
should have and offered Mrs D a total of £200 (excluding the £50 above) for these mistakes. 
Having considered what Mrs D has said about the distress and inconvenience Allianz 
caused her throughout this claim, I agree that it should have provided better service and that 
there were some delays during the claim. But I consider £200 a fair and reasonable amount 
to reflect the impact of the errors that were made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman