DRN-2874256
The complaint
Mrs B complains National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt offered her ways of authenticating 
that will allow her to do online shopping.
What happened
Mrs B has a debit card and a credit card both of which are issued by NatWest.
In 2019, NatWest wrote to its customers to let them know that it was going to be making 
changes to the way it authenticated them when using online banking or doing online 
shopping. NatWest asked its customers to register a mobile number with them if they hadnt 
already done so, and for an email address.
In October 2019, Mrs B wrote to NatWest saying that although she hadnt bought anything 
on the internet yet, her circumstances were likely to change in the future. She said she had a 
mobile phone but that she only used it for emergencies and that she didnt have internet 
access at home  only at her local library. She said she wasnt happy with the changes 
NatWest was proposing, saying that they discriminated against the elderly and people on 
low incomes, and that she wouldnt be able to do online shopping should she decide to do so 
in the future because of them. She suggested solutions that NatWest might want to consider, 
and explained that she was unhappy with the deadlines it had given her to provide a mobile 
number and an email address and the lack of context too.
NatWest wrote back to Mrs B in November 2019  having treated her letter as a complaint  
to say that although it had decided to authenticate its customers primarily using a mobile 
phone it did offer alternative ways of authenticating for customers who didnt have a mobile 
phone or lived in areas with limited reception. NatWest said, for example, that it could send 
one-time passcodes to an email address or a landline, or that its customers could call their 
fraud team. NatWest said it didnt have an email address for Mrs B and asked her to provide 
one, saying that she could opt out of receiving marketing by email if she wanted to.
Mrs B wrote back to NatWest in November 2019 to ask why one of its members of staff had 
called her as shed made it clear that shed only given her number out for emergencies. She 
explained in her letter why she preferred not to use a telephone  saying, for example, that 
she cannot always reach the telephone quickly, that she screens her calls because she gets 
a lot of nuisance and scam callers and that she prefers to study written responses rather 
than speak on the telephone. In her letter she also explained why email wasnt an option for 
her  namely that she might not receive the email within a reasonable time as she didnt 
have home internet access and that she didnt trust NatWest to use any address she gave 
for emergencies only. She also said that none of the options NatWest had suggested would 
work for people who use the internet in their local library.
Mrs B wrote to NatWest again in December 2019. She said that she was one of an 
estimated four million people in the UK who dont have home internet access and that she 
was elderly and had arthritis along with a number of other muscular skeletal problems which 
cause her mobility and dexterity issues. She also said that the methods NatWest was going 
to use to authenticate its customers wouldnt work for her as she only had internet access 
when at the library, lived in an area with limited mobile signal and in any event had 
difficulties using mobiles and that she couldnt give NatWest an email address. So she 
wanted to know how to go about registering her landline with NatWest if she got home 
internet access, in particular to carry out online shopping. Mrs B also wanted NatWest to 
assure her that any number she gave it would be used for emergencies only, saying that 
NatWest hadnt respected her wishes on this issue before.
NatWest wrote back to Mrs B in December 2019 to say that it wasnt upholding her 
complaint and that it had now given its final response. In other words, that shed now need to 
complain to our service. Mrs B complained to us in January 2020 saying that she was no 
longer able to use her debit card online and that it might become a problem if she needed to 
do online shopping in the future, particularly food shopping.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint. Mrs B contacted us whilst we were 
investigating her complaint to say that shed wanted to use online shopping during lockdown 
but hadnt been able to do so. She explained the impact this had on her. Our investigator 
ultimately didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint saying that as Mrs B only had internet access at 
her library they didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly or unreasonably as it had offered to 
send a one-time passcode to an email address which she could have accessed when online 
at her local library. Mrs B disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So Ive 
considered her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B was looking into how shed be able to do online shopping in the future when NatWest 
wrote to her to say that it was going to be changing the way it authenticated its customers. I 
can understand why Mrs B was looking into online shopping and why she was concerned 
that the changes NatWest planned to make wouldnt help given that she didnt have internet 
access at home  only at her local library. I can also understand why she only wants to use 
her mobile phone  on which she could receive one-time passcodes  for emergencies. 
Before considering whether NatWest has acted in a fair and reasonable way or not in its 
dealings with Mrs B, its worth saying a bit about strong customer authentication and what 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has said it expects firms to do when they take steps 
to implement strong customer authentication.
What is strong customer authentication?
NatWest told its customers, including Mrs B, that it was going to be making changes to the 
way it authenticated them when they used online banking or did online shopping. NatWest 
told Mrs B that these changes were as a result of new regulations that were going to come 
into effect in September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector.
NatWest is right that new regulations came into effect in September 2019  specifically the 
part of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) that relates to authentication. 
NatWest is also right that the new regulations that came into effect affected the whole 
banking sector. The regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong 
customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in 
Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a payment 
service user(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has now given the e-commerce industry, following a recent and further 
extension, until March 2022 to implement strong customer authentication for online 
payments. The e-commerce industry includes card issuers, payment firms and online 
retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms bringing in strong customer 
authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that
 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with the 
elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The way NatWest has gone about those checks is at the heart of this 
complaint.
What has the Financial Conduct Authority said about strong customer authentication 
and its expectations?
The FCA has published several papers about strong customer authentication and its 
expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a paper published in June 2019  
Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  the FCA described its 
approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related rules in its Handbook. 
The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical understanding of the 
requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will experience regulatory 
supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate ways (but not the 
only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication solutions on 
different groups of customers, in particular those with protected characteristics, as part of the 
design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a PSP to provide different methods of 
authentication, to comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line 
with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Has NatWest done enough for Mrs B?
Mrs B has told us that she has a mobile phone (but that she only used this for emergency 
purposes) and that she has difficulties using it. Shes also told us that she lives in an area 
with limited mobile reception. So Ive taken the papers the FCA has published on strong 
customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation to people cannot use a 
mobile phone and those who live in areas with limited reception  into account when 
deciding this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. In addition, in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Ive taken the Payment Services Regulations  
in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  that firms must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Mrs B has told us that she has arthritis along with a number of other muscular skeletal 
problems which cause her mobility and dexterity issues  so its likely that she has a 
disability for the purposes of the Equality Act 2010. She might also be a vulnerable 
person for the purposes of the FCAs guidance on treating vulnerable customers fairly. So, 
Ive also taken the Equality Act 2010 into account  including the duty to make reasonable 
adjustments and the provisions relating to indirect discrimination  when deciding this 
complaint based on whats fair and reasonable in addition to the FCAs guidance on 
vulnerable consumers. I should add that Mrs B has told us that she thinks NatWests 
approach is discriminatory on account of age as she believes many elderly people  her 
included  dont have access to the internet at home. Age is a protected characteristic for 
the purposes of the Equality Act 2010  in the same way disability is  so Ive taken this 
into account too.
Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of NatWest 
to implement strong customer authentication  its an important measure to help combat 
fraud. Nor do I think it was unfair or unreasonable of NatWest to decide that it was going to 
use one-time passcodes to help authenticate its customers. I also dont think it was unfair 
and unreasonable of NatWest not to offer Mrs B additional alternative ways to authenticate 
herself. Ill explain why.
The FCA has said  and I think its fair and reasonable  that in its view firms should be 
giving their customers several different ways to authenticate themselves, and not just rely on mobile phones, so that authentication works for all groups of consumers. Mrs B wants to be 
able to do online shopping in her local library or, should she get internet access at home, 
possibly to receive a one-time passcode on her landline (although see below).
NatWest has offered to send Mrs B one-time passcodes to an email address if she supplies 
one  meaning that shed be able to do online shopping from her local library. I accept that 
Mrs B isnt confident shed be able to check email at the same time as shes on a website 
making a purchase, and I accept too that this is something shed have to learn. But I dont 
think thats unreasonable given that Mrs B will also have to get to grips with online shopping. 
And in the event that Mrs B decides to get home internet, I dont think its unreasonable to 
expect her to check email for a one-time passcode at home either. Mrs B has explained to 
us why she might have difficulties checking her landline for a one-time passcode if she gets 
internet access at home  its likely her computer would be at the back of her house and her 
landline is at the front of the house, so shed have some distance to walk. So thats another 
reason why email might be a better option for her even though NatWest has offered to send 
one-time passcodes to Mrs Bs landline as well as any email address she supplies. In short, I 
think NatWest has offered the alternatives I would expect it to in this particular case. I can 
understand why Mrs B might be concerned that NatWest will use any email or landline 
number she supplies for other purposes  marketing being the most obvious one. But she 
can insist on NatWest recording the fact that she doesnt want to receive any marketing and 
she can also make it clear that NatWest should contact her in writing for all other purposes. 
If NatWest fails to respect those wishes, shed have grounds to complain.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont think National Westminster Bank Plc has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman