DRN-2313468
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited didnt allow him to continue with treatment 
which had been authorised under his private medical insurance, after his policy had ended.
What happened
In early 2020, BUPA authorised treatment for Mr Rs shoulder. He says he paid his excess 
under the policy, met with a consultant, underwent a scan on his shoulder and had a steroid 
injection. He says BUPA also approved five sessions of physiotherapy and had provided 
pre-authorisation for a follow up consultation and another injection therapy session. 
Mr R says hed had two sessions before treatment was suspended as a result of the Covid-
19 pandemic. Due to the pandemic, facilities in the private medical sector were offering its
resources to help the NHS treat affected patients.
Around this time, Mr R was also given notice by his employer to terminate his employment 
with effect of the end of June 2020. His private medical insurance was a benefit of his 
employment, and so the policy would end around that time unless Mr R purchased a 
personal policy with BUPA, offering continuation terms. 
Mr R was keen to complete the treatment that had been authorised before his policy ended, 
particularly as hed been quoted a much higher premium for the personal policy compared 
with what hed been paying as a member of the employers group policy.
However, BUPA said this wasnt possible at that time because routine treatments had been 
suspended  even if theyd been pre-planned. BUPA says this was in line with standard UK 
health guidelines at the time and outside of its control.
Mr R is also unhappy because BUPA didnt extend the period in which he could have the 
treatment for his shoulder which had been pre-authorised beyond the end of the policy in 
June 2020. However, BUPA says its policy terms are clear; that it wont cover treatment 
which takes place after the policy comes to an end even if such treatment is authorised 
before the end of the policy.
Mr R is also unhappy that the quote BUPA provided him for the policy was a lot higher than 
hed been paying previously when he had the benefit of his employers group policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. As Mr R disagrees, his complaint has been 
passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
We only pay benefits for treatment you receive while you are covered under the 
agreement and we only pay benefits in accordance with the cover that applies to you 
on the date the treatment takes place. We do not pay for any treatment, including any 
treatment we have pre-authorised, that takes place on or after the date your cover 
ends.
So, Im satisfied that the policy terms are clear; treatment that takes place on or after the 
date the policy ends isnt covered. And the policy is also clear that that includes treatment 
which has been pre-authorised before the end of the policy.
I can understand why Mr R feels that BUPAs decision not extend cover for the treatments 
which had been pre-authorised before his policy ended is unfair; particularly as the reason 
for putting the treatments on hold was nothing to do with him, but the Covid-19 pandemic. 
But Im not persuaded that BUPA has unfairly or unreasonably relied on this term to not 
cover Mr Rs pre-authorised treatment beyond the end of his policy in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
 
The reason why treatment was put on hold was not the fault of BUPA either; it was the result 
of the extraordinary  and unexpected - impact of the Covid-19 pandemic which resulted in 
private sector facilities needed to be used to treat NHS patients. The policy doesnt make 
any exceptions for such a situation.
BUPA did provide Mr R with a quote for a personal health insurance policy. And if this had 
been accepted by Mr R, BUPA says he wouldve been able to claim for treatment without 
disruption.
But, ultimately, Mr R chose not to take out the personal policy as it cost significantly more 
than what he was paying. 
When quoting for a new policy, BUPA says it considers several risk factors including current 
and previous medical history.
Its for BUPA to determine which factors it takes into account when pricing its medical
insurance policies. And I dont think the factors its mentioned are out of line with the industry
norm, or inherently unfair or unreasonable.
BUPA has provided a screen shot of the triage questions Mr R was asked when being 
quoted for the continuation policy including:
In the last 2 years has the person to be covered had any arthritic conditions and / or 
back and neck conditions and/or spinal conditions (including sciatica) or joint 
replacements?
Does the person to be covered have ANY planned or pending investigations, 
treatment of surgery for any condition? (this applies whether the treatment is planned 
privately or under the NHS)?
Its reflected that Mr R answered yes to these two questions. 
Based on my knowledge of how private medical insurance policies are priced, Im satisfied 
that Mr R having certain pre-existing conditions and planned treatment wouldve been a 
factor in the price increasing. BUPA has also, at my request, provided information from its Actuaries showing the 
weighting thats applied depending on how the triage questions are answered and this 
affects the price. This information is commercially sensitive. But taking into account the 
pricing information Ive been given, Im persuaded that BUPA has fairly and reasonably 
calculated the quote to be considerably higher than Mr R had been paying whilst a member 
of his employers group private medical insurance policy.
And although Mr R says the quotation he received was a lot higher than the quotes received 
by some of his colleagues (when looking to take out a personal policy on continuing terms 
with BUPA), their policies wouldve been based on their own individual circumstances. Im 
not persuaded that this automatically means that the quote Mr R received from BUPA was 
unfair.
Mr R is also unhappy because, during the last few months of this policy, hed been paying 
his premium but not being able to access the treatment he needed. However, from what 
BUPA says, Im persuaded that it still wouldve been able to provide urgent treatment, if 
required. 
And although some treatments were deferred, BUPA says it did put in place other benefits to 
support its members at this time. That included remote consultations, online access to 
private GPs and a health line to speak with nurses and doctors, which was in operation 
seven days per week, 24 hours per day. Ive got no reason to doubt what BUPA says about 
that.
So, although Mr R wasnt able to continue with his authorised treatment in the months 
immediately preceding the date his policy ended because it wasnt considered as urgent, Im 
satisfied that the policy was still capable of providing him with a benefit. And that if he 
required urgent treatment during that time, this is still likely to have been covered. 
When responding to Mr Rs complaint points, and although it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong, BUPA did offer him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. And because Im not 
upholding Mr Rs complaint, I dont think BUPA has to do anything more. 
I know Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help him to know that his 
complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman