DRN-2167450
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the amount of money Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) 
has offered to settle his motor insurance claim following the theft of his car. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr As car was stolen and he reported it to Admiral. They accepted the 
claim and it was considered a total loss. They initially considered the market value of the car 
to be £355 but this was re-considered and the value was increased to £805. Admiral offered 
£50 compensation to Mr A for making this error.
However Admiral said the valuation of £805 would be reduced because Mr A failed to 
disclose that he had two motoring offences at the time of purchasing the policy. They said 
had it been disclosed, they wouldve still offered the policy, but it wouldve been charged at a 
higher premium. 
Admiral said because Mr A only paid about 29% of what he wouldve paid, had he declared 
these offences, they would settle the claim on the same proportionate basis. Once they had 
done so and deducted the policy excess, they said they would pay £87.23 to settle Mr As 
claim. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr A referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld. They believed the market value was fair 
and it was reasonable for Admiral to settle the claim on a proportionate rate. They also said 
it was fair for Admiral to settle the claim with a cash settlement rather than offering a 
replacement car. Mr D disagreed and said he wants Admiral to return or replace his car 
because the amount of money theyve offered isnt enough.
In July 2020, I issued a provisional decision and said:
 Valuation of the car
Where a car has been damaged or stolen, the terms of the policy say Admiral can decide 
how to settle a claim, they can choose to repair the car, pay a cash sum or replace the car. 
In the event Admiral decide to make a cash sum, the policy terms say the most we will pay 
is the market value of the car or items claimed for. The policy terms define market value as:
 
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. 
Admiral has decided to settle the claim by paying a cash sum and theyve determined the 
market value of Mr As car to be £805.
Firstly, I must explain my role is not to provide an exact value of Mr As car. Instead I must 
consider if the amount offered by Admiral is fair and reasonable.  When looking at these 
types of complaints, I check motor trade guides and consider whether the insurer has made 
a reasonable offer in line with them. I may also consider other information such as retail and 
private adverts. However I tend to place more weight on the guides as theyre based on 
nationwide research of likely selling prices. 
I have considered the trade guides for Mr As car and I find Admirals valuation of £805 to be 
in line with the guides so Im satisfied their market valuation is reasonable. In this case they 
have decided to settle the claim by making a case sum and as explained above, the policy 
terms allow them to do so. 
Admiral have acknowledged they made an error when initially determining the market value 
and offered £50 compensation to Mr A for this incorrect information. In light of the 
circumstances, I consider this to be a fair amount as they quickly identified and corrected 
their error. 
Undisclosed motoring offences
However Admiral said they wont be paying the full market value because Mr A didnt tell 
them that he had two motoring offences at the time of purchasing the policy meaning he 
gave them inaccurate information. Where such allegations are made, this is referred to as a 
misrepresentation. The relevant law which applies is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012  which I will refer to as CIDRA. 
Firstly, I must consider whether Mr A made a misrepresentation. I havent seen a copy of 
Mr As application but Admiral said the question concerning motoring offences asked In the 
last 5 years, has the driver had any motoring offences, including fixed penalties, convictions, 
disqualifications, or any pending prosecutions?. They said Mr A answered no. This is a 
common question asked by insurers so I believe its more likely than not, this wouldve been 
asked during Mr As application. Mr A said he told Admiral about his offences but based on 
the policy schedule that was sent to him following the purchase, there is no mention of 
motoring offences therefore on balance, I believe Mr A didnt make Admiral aware. Equally 
once in receipt of the policy documents, Mr A was advised to let Admiral know if the 
information was incorrect and there is no evidence he had done so. 
Admirals claim notes confirmed Mr A had two motoring offences dated July and November 
2018 respectively. Therefore I believe Mr A made a misrepresentation. When this happens, 
CIDRA says insurers can only take action, if they show there had been a qualifying 
misrepresentation. In determining whether this is the case, I must consider whether Mr A 
had taken reasonable care when providing information and whether Admiral wouldve acted 
differently had they known the correct information.
I consider the question about motoring offences asked at application, as outlined above, to 
be a clear and unambiguous. Admiral also said there was a help box which provided a 
further explanation of what this question meant. Given Mr As offences were dated within a 
short time, one within five months and the other one month, prior to the purchase of the 
policy in January 2019, I wouldve expected him to remember these offences and to make 
Admiral aware. Therefore I dont believe he had taken reasonable care when answering this 
question. Admiral has provided evidence which showed had Mr A told them about the 
offences, they wouldve offered him the policy but it wouldve been charged at a higher 
premium, over £1,700. Im satisfied this wouldve applied to all consumers, not just Mr A. On 
this basis, I believe a qualifying misrepresentation has been made in accordance to CIDRA.
Having determined a qualifying misrepresentation had been made, CIDRA says the insurer 
may take action depending on whether it was deliberate, reckless or careless. In this case, 
Admiral said it considers Mr As misrepresentation to be careless and I think this is 
reasonable based on what Ive said above. In this situation, the insurer may proportionately 
reduce the amount to be paid on a claim and I can see this is what Admiral has done. So I cant say theyve acted inappropriately. It wouldnt be fair to expect Admiral to pay the full 
market value of his car.
 
Overall, I am satisfied Admirals settlement figure of £805 is in line with the market value of 
Mr As car at the time of the theft and it was reasonable for them to make a proportionate 
settlement based on his misrepresentation. They are entitled to settle the claim by paying a 
cash sum rather than providing a replacement car and they are entitled to deduct the policy 
excess from the settlement amount. I also believe the £50 compensation for their initial error 
is fair so I wont be asking them to increase the settlement or do anything in addition to what 
theyve already offered.
Response to provisional findings
Mr A and Admiral were invited to respond to my provisional decision but neither provided 
any further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint, for the same reasons as 
explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman