DRN-1888703
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Ms F says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1997 Ms F took out PPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage during a branch 
meeting.
Broadly the policy provided protection for Ms Fs mortgage payments in the event she 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for 
up to 12 months per claim and it cost around £25 a month.
At the time of the sale Ms F was employed and she said she was entitled to statutory sick 
pay. She said she couldve relied on her parents to help her with her repayments  she also 
said she had some savings, which matured around two or so years after the sale - and she 
was in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they said 
the evidence showed Ms F chose to take out the cover, so she was aware at the time shed 
takne the cover out. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Ms F disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Ms Fs complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Ms F was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold her complaint. I think the adjudicator has set out the position clearly and theres not 
much more I feel I can usefully add to what Ms Fs already been told  but my reasons are 
set out below.
did Ms F have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
Ms F says it is only recently that shes become aware that a direct debit being taken from her 
bank account was for PPI  she says there were two direct debits taken, one for the 
mortgage and she says the other correlated in her mind with the home insurance policy she 
remembers taking out at the time.
Both Nationwide and Ms F have provided some of the paperwork from the time of the sale. 
Ms F has provided her PPI application. Looking at this I can see it is a separate and distinct 
application from the mortgage application itself, which has been filled out with her name and 
address (I note the address completed here is Ms Fs address where she was living at the 
time and not the address of her proposed purchase address) and which she signed. 
Because the mortgage application doesnt reference PPI and given Ms F had to complete a 
separate application to take out PPI  this doesnt say or imply it had to be taken out - I dont 
think Ms F wouldve been under the impression that she had to take out PPI or it was just 
part of the mortgage. Im satisfied Ms F consented to it, so she was reasonably aware shed 
taken the policy out.
I can see Ms F says that in her mind the direct debit which subsequently came out of her 
account was for her home insurance. She describes the lengthy and stressful time between 
signing the mortgage related paperwork and the payments being taken. 
But as the adjudicator explained, its not unusual for mortgage transactions to take several 
months to complete  and the PPI direct debit payment wouldnt have been taken until the 
policy went live on completion of the mortgage. While Ms F might have misinterpreted the 
direct debit as being for her home insurance, I cant see this was because of something 
Lloyds did or didnt do. So while I have no doubt Ms Fs home buying process was a 
stressful one, I cant fairly say that Lloyds needs to do something to put things right.
the advice
Because this was a branch sale Lloyds says it likely recommended the PPI to Ms F. And 
while Ive not seen anything to support this, because it doesnt disadvantage Ms F in any 
way  if anything its more favourable to her  Im happy to consider this was an advised 
sale. 
This means Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for Ms F  and based on what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, she was eligible for 
the cover; she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as 
those for existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and she seems 
to have had a need for the cover.
Ms F says she was entitled to statutory sick pay. She also says she had some savings which 
matured a couple of years later. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay 
and for up to 12 months per claim. Had the insured risks become a reality, I think the policy 
wouldve helped Ms F out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time. Ms 
Fs income wouldve reduced significantly  she was also solely responsible for the 
mortgage. And while her savings couldve cushioned her finances, including helping meet 
her mortgage payments, these werent available at the time the advice was given. In any 
event, in my view the existence of savings doesnt automatically make the policy was 
unsuitable.
Ms F says her parents couldve helped her out. But Im not persuaded that help from parents 
can reasonably be considered a guaranteed means of payment  as I said Ms F was 
responsible for her mortgage and this is the person Lloyds wouldve looked to, to make 
payment. Because of this I dont think it was reasonable for the adviser to have considered 
this help as guaranteed when formulating their advice. So, taking everything into account I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended the cover to Ms F. 
the information  
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms F 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. I can see that Ms F says she didnt 
receive any paperwork at the time  her new home address appears to have been confused 
with the new-build plot number rather than the actual house number, so she says any mail 
wouldve likely been returned. 
On the one hand I accept its possible Ms F didnt receive the full PPI policy document / 
information because of the address confusion. On the other hand, its possible it was sent 
out to Ms Fs address at the time as input on her application form, in which case she 
mightve received them.
But in any event as I found above, I think Ms F chose to take out PPI and understood she 
was taking out a mortgage protection policy (the application form described it as payment 
protection.) So, it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And as I said above, I think it was 
appropriate for her - so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. Therefore I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Ms F off taking out the cover. 
I can see that Ms F said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that because she says 
she didnt get the policy information she didnt get the reminder about the cooling off period 
to allow for a change of mind.
As I acknowledged above, its possible Ms F didnt receive the policy information and 
reminder about her right to cancel the policy. But in light of the policy being suitable for Ms F, 
I see no reason why she wouldve changed her mind with more information - Im not 
persuaded it is more likely than not that she wouldve decided to cancel it.
conclusion
In conclusion  while Lloyds might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably 
have done when it sold Ms F PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think the policy 
was ultimately suitable for her. And because it wasn't wrong for her, I don't think better 
information would've put her off taking it out.
This means I dont think Ms F has lost out as a result of having PPI, so Lloyds doesn't have 
to pay back to Ms F what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought carefully about everything Ms F has said - including what she said in response 
to the adjudicator's assessment. But these points dont change my decision. 
For the reasons I've set out above, I don't uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman