DRN-4387290
The complaint
Mr L complains about the vehicle he acquired from Startline Motor Finance Limited 
(Startline) being of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
The facts of this case have been discussed and shared many times, but I will summarise 
them below. 
Mr L acquired a vehicle through a hire purchase agreement from Startline in March 2022. 
The car was around seven years old and had covered around 81,000 miles when it was 
supplied to Mr L. 
Mr L reported several issues within the first few months, including an engine management 
light coming on and some cosmetic issues with the car. There was some dispute around 
these issues but by June 2022 Mr L had raised further concerns about the suspension and 
then the gearbox and provided two diagnostic reports from April 2022 showing a series of 
faults with the vehicle. Mr L had also broken down during this period and had an AA report 
showing problems including with a NOx sensor and other issues, many of which were the 
same issues the diagnostic reports highlighted. 
Startline did not uphold the complaint; they didnt investigate all of the issues or arrange for 
an independent report to further investigate the problems being suffered by Mr L. He 
therefore bought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator here found the vehicle to be of unsatisfactory quality and upheld the 
complaint. They issued their first view in October 2022, and recommended that the car could 
be rejected, the agreement should be ended with nothing further to pay, the car should be 
collected, and Mr L should be refunded his monthly payments since the agreement began. 
They also recommended any costs of the garage inspections be refunded and Mr L be paid 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Finally they said any adverse information 
relating to the agreement should be removed from Mr Ls credit file. 
Mr L accepted this view, and after some delays, Startline also accepted this view in 
November 2022. However, in January 2023, Mr L contacted us to say that Startline still 
hadnt collected the car or actioned the redress. When the investigator reached out to 
Startline, they apologised and said they would arrange collection as soon as possible. 
Over the following weeks, Startline said they couldnt arrange to collect the car from Mr L, 
who confirmed he had suffered some family problems which had delayed his ability to 
arrange this with them. Startline also said they had concerns that Mr L had continued to 
drive the car. 
Eventually in March 2023 the car was collected. At this point, Startline reached out to us to 
question the original view, because when they collected the car, they discovered that Mr L 
had been using it and it had now covered approaching 99,000 miles, nearly 18,000 miles 
since Mr L had acquired the car. They highlighted that the car hadnt had a valid MOT 
certificate between 30 November 2022 and 15 March 2023, when Mr L took the car for an 
MOT before they came to collect it. 
The investigator decided to issue a second view, and while they still upheld the complaint, 
they removed the requirement to refund any monthly payments to Mr L, as he had clearly 
been able to continue using the car. 
Mr L didnt agree with this and said he hadnt used the car since November, so he asked for 
an Ombudsman to make a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the case was passed to me for a decision, after assessing the evidence, I reached out 
to both parties to discuss the possibility of resolving the complaint informally. The MOT for 
the car had run out by 30 November 2022, and when I spoke to Mr L he said he hadnt 
driven the car since then. 
Startline had already agreed to a rejection of the car, which felt fair in the circumstances, as 
there were clearly faults with the car which Startline had not investigated properly, which 
made the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
However, Mr L had been using the car from when he acquired it until the MOT ran out. He 
told me that he had to use it for work, and that it had been using a lot more petrol during this 
period due to the faults with it. He said that he thought he had sent evidence already of this 
problem causing it to use more petrol, but we have never received this evidence. 
When I spoke to Startline, they confirmed that the last payment they had received from Mr L 
was in November 2022, so they felt that if they could keep the payments they had received 
up to that point in November 2022, to recognise them as him paying for fair use of the car, 
they were happy to write off any remaining billed but not paid payments after that.
I proposed to both parties that I felt a fair resolution would be for the agreement to be ended, 
for Mr L to only be refunded any payments he made from 30 November 2022 onwards, for 
him to be paid £250 distress and inconvenience, for his credit file to be amended to remove 
any adverse information regarding this agreement, and for him to be paid back for garage 
diagnostic reports if he had paid for them (confirming we had not seen invoices for these 
reports so Mr L would need to prove this). 
Startline accepted this proposal, but Mr L didnt agree with it. Initially he said he had 
definitely made a December 2022 payment, and also said he felt he was due considerable 
redress for the extra petrol he had to use due to the cars faults.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached informally, I gave both parties time to send me final 
comments before writing this final decision. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Startline here  has a responsibility 
to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable 
person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, mileage, and description. Its clear in this case that the car was of unsatisfactory quality, and 
it was fair for it to be rejected. As both parties have already agreed this, I havent looked into 
this further. Ive moved on to consider how things should be put right, as this is still in 
dispute. 
Firstly, the agreement should be ended, and the car collected. Both parties have confirmed 
this has already happened. Mr L didnt pay a deposit for the vehicle under the agreement, so 
there is nothing further required regarding that. 
Ive moved on to consider the monthly payments made my Mr L until November 2022. The 
CRA says that If the consumer exercises the final right to reject, any refund to the consumer 
may be reduced by a deduction for use, to take account of the use the consumer has had of 
the goods in the period since they were delivered. 
Mr L has had considerable use of the vehicle, driving it for approaching 16,000 miles in 
under nine months. As such, I am satisfied that to recognise this use, it is fair for Startline to 
keep the monthly payments he made from the inception of the agreement, up to and 
including the November 2022 payment made. Any payments made from 30 November 2022 
onwards should be refunded, as the car wasnt being used from this point, but I dont believe 
any further payments were made. 
Ive then gone on to consider any other costs incurred by Mr L as a result of the car being of 
unsatisfactory quality. He has said there were costs for the two garage inspections he 
undertook, but we have never received evidence of these costs, or of them being paid by 
him. Startline have agreed that if he provides this evidence, they will re-imburse the cost of 
these reports, which I am satisfied is fair. 
Mr L in our recent discussions has claimed he had considerable fuel costs because the 
faults with the vehicle meant it was using a lot more fuel than expected. Hes not provided 
any evidence of these faults for me to assess, so Ive thought about this. He said that the 
garage reports had this detail, but hes not discussed it before, and not supplied any garage 
diagnostic reports with this detail. 
Im not persuaded that Mr L should receive any payment towards fuel costs or compensation 
for this. Ive seen no evidence of this problem, or that hes raised this issue whilst the car 
was being driven in 2022. I dont think its reasonable to continue to use the car the amount 
he has if there was a problem meaning it was using a lot more fuel than it should, without 
raising this specific concern. Its not fair for him then to expect further refunds towards these 
apparent costs. He has taken no action to mitigate this situation, and therefore I wont be 
asking Startline to do any more about this. 
With regards to distress and inconvenience, I proposed to both parties a payment of £250, 
as per the original view provided by the investigator. Startline said they felt that as Mr L had 
continued to use the car and they had difficulties recovering it, they disagreed with the 
amount but would accept it to finally resolve the case. 
I think this opinion doesnt recognise the distress and inconvenience they caused in their 
original complaint handling; we are now 18 months down the line from when problems with 
the car began, and Startline take a considerable amount of the blame for that. If they had 
investigated the problems properly at the outset, Im not sure that any of the ensuing issues 
might have happened. As such, I am satisfied that £250 to recognise this is a fair amount.   
Finally, Startline should remove any adverse information from Mr Ls credit file relating to this 
agreement. After discussing this with both and reviewing the comments from both parties, my opinion 
remains the same, that this is the fairest resolution. I am satisfied that this is a fair resolution 
of this complaint and am instructing Startline to carry out the remaining parts of this redress, 
as detailed below. I agree that the car was of unsatisfactory quality, and it was fair for Mr L to 
be able to reject it, and Startline should carry out the remaining parts of the resolution to 
bring the matter to a close. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Startline Motor Finance Limited to 
put things right by doing the following:
- If not done already, end the agreement with nothing further to pay. 
- Remove any adverse information from Mr Ls credit file in relation to the agreement. 
- Pay Mr L £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
- Refund any monthly payments made towards the agreement by Mr L from 30 
November 2022 onwards. 
- If Mr L provides them evidence showing the cost of the two diagnostic reports 
produced by the garage, and proof of his payment, they should refund these costs to 
Mr L. 
- Add simple interest at 8% pa to any payments above being refunded from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman