DRN-3576078
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Ageas, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold Ageas responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
For the year from July 2021, Mrs E had a car insured on a comprehensive policy with Ageas.
Unfortunately in late November 2021, her car was involved in an accident. Police attended 
and Mrs E was taken to hospital. A recovery agent collected her car from the scene of the 
accident.
Mrs E asked Ageas about her personal belongings that had been in the car. In early 
December 2021, Ageas paid Mrs E its pre-accident valuation of her car, less the policy 
excess.
Later, Mrs E complained to Ageas that it was responsible for her loss of her belongings.
By a final response dated late March 2022, Ageas turned down the complaint. Mrs E brought 
her complaint to us within a few days.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Ageas did anything wrong by not collecting the items in Mrs Es car. The investigator didnt 
agree that Ageas promised to return Mrs Es items to her.
Mrs E disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Ageas offered to collect her belongings.
So she didnt need to make arrangements. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint about a regulated 
financial firm. We may hold a firm responsible for acts or omissions of its agents. But we 
have no legal power to deal with a complaint against an agent who wasnt a regulated 
financial firm.
I dont think Mrs E was in any position to contact Ageas immediately after the accident. 
Rather I think that the police instructed the recovery agent. So I dont hold Ageas 
responsible for safeguarding Mrs Es personal belongings in the immediate aftermath of the 
accident.
From the call recordings, I find that Mrs E first contacted Ageas a couple of days after the 
accident. After that call, Ageas rang round some recovery agents and found the one who 
had Mrs Es car. Ageas gave Mrs E the contact details the same day and again a couple of 
days later. 
At that stage, Ageas didnt have custody of the damaged car or any of its contents. Ageas 
instructed a salvage agent to collect the car. Ageas suggested that Mrs E contact the 
recovery agent or wait to see whether there were belongings in the car when it arrived with 
its salvage agent.
From its invoice, I think that the salvage agent got the car on about 3 December 2021. From 
what the recovery agent said later about disposal, I find that there were no personal 
belongings in the car at that time. 
Mrs E contacted Ageas again in late December 2021. From its file, I think that Ageas thought 
its salvage agent might have some of Mrs Es belongings.
From what the recovery agent has said, it held the items for 90 days after which it disposed 
of them. That wouldve been in about late February 2022.
In my view, Ageas couldve established sooner that its salvage agent never received the 
belongings. Nevertheless, I dont consider that the call recordings support Mrs Es position 
that Ageas told her that it would get her belongings back for her.
In any event, I dont consider that Ageas assumed responsibility for getting the belongings 
back from a recovery agent that hadnt been an agent Ageas appointed.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to compensate Mrs E or to do any more 
in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman