DRN-3789223
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that CB Payments Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
I understand that between March 2019 and February 2020 Mr D fell victim to an investment 
scam. He reported that matter to the police in his country of residence in February 2020. It 
appears that in June 2020 Mr D engaged with a business which claimed to be able to 
recover his lost money. Unfortunately, the business he engaged with appears to be a clone 
of a legitimate debt recovery business and it tricked him into sending it cryptocurrency with a 
value, at the time, of over €200,000. Its a little unclear whether all of the money that is the 
subject of this complaint was sent as part of the later recovery scam or whether some went 
to the original investment fraudsters (though its possible they were, in fact, one in the 
same). In either case, it doesnt impact the outcome of this complaint.  
As part of the scam Mr D opened a CB Payments account and deposited funds into it from 
his bank account in another country. He used those funds to purchase cryptocurrency from a 
separate business, Coinbase UK. That cryptocurrency was deposited into a cryptocurrency 
account provided by the same firm before being sent off the Coinbase platform to the 
fraudsters. 
Mr D complained to Coinbase (responding on behalf of both CB Payments and Coinbase 
UK). It said that it had no relationship with the recipient of his cryptocurrency, it couldnt 
recover his money and as hed carried out all of the activity himself, it wasnt responsible for 
his loss. 
Mr D referred the matter to our service. CB Payments argued that we had no power to 
consider the complaint as it didnt relate to the electronic money activities provided by CB 
Payments, but rather the unregulated cryptocurrency activities provided by Coinbase UK. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They initially agreed that we had no 
power to consider the complaint but, after further consideration, they thought there were 
aspects of it that we could consider  specifically those which related to whether CB 
Payments had carried out adequate checks when Mr D opened his account and whether it 
had properly monitored his account for unusual or out of character activity. Having reviewed 
those aspects of Mr Ds complaint, the investigator concluded that CB Payments hadnt 
made a mistake. 
Mr D didnt agree, in summary he said:
- Regardless of whether CB Payments and Coinbase are separate entities, all relevant 
regulations still apply to CB Payments, including an obligation to suspend or freeze 
payments that present a high risk of financial crime. 
- Contrary to the investigators arguments, the payments were unusual due to their 
large size  particularly the third payment.
- CB Payments failed to adhere to good industry practice by not picking up on signs 
that he was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
- CB Payments knows that investing in cryptocurrency is risky and, overall, it had 
sufficient reason to contact him before allowing the purchases of cryptocurrency to 
take place. It failed to do this. 
- It was incorrect for the investigator to state that simply verifying his identity was 
sufficient for CB Payments to discharge its anti-money laundering (AML) 
obligations. The size of his deposits to a newly opened account should have been of 
significant concern to any financial institution. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr D. Im particularly saddened to hear that 
Mr D was victimised again after losing such a significant sum to the initial fraud. So, I know 
that it will be even more disappointing for him that Im unable to uphold his complaint about 
CB payments. Ill explain why.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that our service cannot consider the actions of 
Coinbase UK, so I dont need to comment on this further. Neither is it in dispute that Mr D 
made the purchases of cryptocurrency from his CB Payments account himself. So, the 
starting point is that he, rather than CB Payments, is responsible for the loss.
However, in line with good industry practice, I agree that CB Payments should monitor its 
customers accounts for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. 
This should include monitoring account activity for transactions that are unusual or out of 
character. In some circumstances, it should take additional steps, or carry out additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
As set out, I do agree that CB Payments has obligations to protect its customers from 
financial harm from fraud. But, I also have to take into account that CB Payments offers a 
specialist account that can only really be used to purchase (and receive the proceeds of 
sale) of cryptocurrency. That means that such activity is unlikely to stand out as unusual in 
and of itself. Its also important to note that the purchases of cryptocurrency were, in effect, a 
transfer between accounts controlled by Mr D. It follows that CB Payments would have fewer 
reasons to be concerned about fraud. And, as already noted, I cant consider whether 
Coinbase UK ought to have been concerned by the subsequent onward transfer of 
cryptocurrency.
Mr D appears to have exclusively used this account for the purpose of paying the fraudsters. 
That meant there was no genuine account activity to compare the disputed activity against. 
That fact makes it more difficult to conclude that CB Payments ought to have known Mr D 
was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Its also important to state that CB Payments obligations to protect customers from financial 
harm from fraud and its Know your Customer and AML obligations are different in nature. 
The primary purpose of AML regulations is to prevent the laundering of criminal funds. As 
such, Id expect CB Payments to (and there doesnt seem to be any dispute that it did) verify 
Mr Ds identity and check the source of his funds. While the obligations of a business under 
AML regulations do not stop after an account is opened and funds are deposited, it isnt in dispute that Mr D was using his own, legitimate funds. What, I think, Mr D understandably 
argues is that CB Payments ought to have contacted him and discussed his reasons for 
making the payments. And, if it had been concerned about those reasons (as Im sure it 
would have been), it should have provided a strong warning about the risk of falling victim to 
a scam. But, I dont think this obligation necessarily arises out of AML regulations, but rather, 
in line with the good industry practice that Ive accepted applies to CB Payments, when there 
are grounds to believe a customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud.
While cryptocurrency clearly presents risks to consumers, I cant agree that depositing funds 
into a CB Payments account and purchasing cryptocurrency is financial activity matching a 
known method of fraud. As already set out, given that is the primary function of a CB 
Payments account, it cannot be a useful indicator of financial harm. It would be an onerous 
requirement on CB Payments to expect it to make enquiries of every customer purchasing 
cryptocurrency to find out the wider circumstances surrounding each purchase. Instead, Id 
only have expected it to do this where it had compelling grounds to believe that its customer 
was at risk of financial harm from fraud. Though I accept the deposits and payments Mr D 
made were large, I dont think this fact alone is sufficient (and, as Ive explained, neither 
were there any other substantive reasons) for CB Payments to believe Mr D was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. It follows that I dont think there were sufficient grounds for CB 
Payments to intervene before any of the payments were made. 
Ive also not seen anything in Mr Ds submissions that would suggest that hes particularly 
vulnerable to scams of this nature or that CB Payments would have been aware of any 
vulnerability prior to, or during, the scam. 
Finally, Im satisfied that CB Payments couldnt have done anything to recover Mr Ds funds 
as they were sent off the Coinbase platform in cryptocurrency to a fraudster.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman