DRN-4284869
The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr F was provided with a £10,000 loan by Nationwide in August 2020. The loan term was 84 
months, and he was required to make monthly repayments of around £143. The total 
amount repayable was around £12,018.
Mr F says that at the time the loan was provided he was on unemployment benefits. He says 
the income he declared included a family members income from an online auction site 
business which was set up using his account and that the loan was being used to support 
this business. Part way into the loan Mr F has said that Nationwide carried out an enhanced 
due diligence check which resulted in his account being frozen and the loan being unpaid 
and arrears building. Mr F says while the family member was previously making the 
repayments he isnt anymore. He thinks that had adequate checks been undertaken, 
Nationwide would have realised the loan wasnt affordable for him.
Nationwide issued a final response letter dated 5 October 2022. It said that all checks were 
carried out as per its process and it was unable to identify any issues with these. Therefore, 
it didnt find the loan had been mis-sold.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought that given the size and term of the loan, 
further checks should have taken place. He noted that Mr Fs bank account was with 
Nationwide and so it had access to this information and said that while based on 
Nationwides checks the loan appeared affordable further checks should have taken place 
and had these happened they would have raised concerns. Because of this he didnt think 
that Nationwide had made a fair lending decision.
Nationwide didnt agree with our investigators view. It noted that Mr F said he provided the 
loan proceeds to a family member but said it couldnt control what happened to the loan after 
provision and didnt consider this pertinent to the case. In regard to the lending decision, it 
said that it operated a sophisticated automated application checking system which verifies 
an applicants income and credit commitments and reviews their credit file information with a 
credit reference agency. It said that manual checks would only take place if the application 
triggers a referral, which didnt happen with Mr Fs loan application. It said Mr F declared 
himself as self-employed and had no existing debts. It said that Mr F answered No to the 
question as to whether his income was likely to reduce over the loan term.
Nationwide said its checks were proportionate given the size and term of the loan and the 
information it received showed the loan to be affordable.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below.
Nationwide has explained that Mr Fs application went through its automated application 
checking system through which his income was verified, and credit commitments and credit 
information reviewed. This process recorded Mr F as single and living with parents and 
being self-employed with a net monthly income of £2,000. His credit check showed he had 
no existing credit commitments. Based on the information received through these checks I 
agree that the loan, with monthly repayments of around £143 seemed affordable. But I still 
need to consider whether the checks were proportionate and whether Nationwide made a 
fair lending decision.
Given the credit check didnt show any adverse information and noting the repayment 
amounts compared to Mr Fs declared income I can understand why this loan application 
may not have triggered a referral for manual checking. However as there was no credit 
history for Nationwide to rely on and Mr F had said he was self-employed which can lead to 
a less regular income stream, I think it would have been reasonable in this case to ask 
further questions about Mr Fs declared income to ensure this was sufficient to support the 
repayments over the loans term.
Mr F banks with Nationwide and so his statements were available to be considered. I have 
looked at these but in doing so I have needed to consider what I think it most likely Mr F 
would have declared in light of the statement information had further questions been asked. 
Mr Fs bank statements from the three months leading up to the loan application shows he 
received around £300 a month in job seekers allowance. Taking just this income into 
account could raise concerns about the affordability of the loan  as the repayments would 
account for almost 50% of Mr Fs income. But, as previously noted, Mr F had very limited 
expenses so while I think identifying Mr Fs benefits payments meant further questions 
should be asked it doesnt necessarily mean the loan was unaffordable.
The benefit payments show Mr F was unemployed at the time and so it would have been 
reasonable to ask about his declaration of self-employment. The question here is whether at 
this point Mr F would have declared that the income he was receiving into his account from 
the online auction site was his from his self-employment or whether at this point it would 
have become clear this wasnt Mr Fs income and therefore shouldnt be included in the 
assessment.
I cannot say for certain what would have happened had this been questioned but as Mr F 
wanted to get the loan and declared himself as self-employed and his income as being 
£2,000 a month, I think it is more likely than not that he would have said the income into the 
account should be used for consideration of the loan.
Had this been the case, Mr Fs bank statements supported him receiving frequent payments 
into his account which I understand to be from the auction site business. There were also 
payments out of the account, but the bank statements showed Mr F was in credit with a 
reasonable positive balance throughout the period. The statements do also show frequent 
gambling transactions, but Mr F has said that the gambling was undertaken by a family 
member and I think it likely he would have said this if asked.
In this case, it isnt clear what Mr F would have declared had further questions been asked. 
But given the income into his account, the limited expenses Mr F was incurring and that his 
account balance didnt suggest he was in financial difficulty, on balance, I do not find I can 
say, based on the information provided and the information likely to have been identified 
through further checks, that the loan should have been considered unaffordable or that 
Nationwide was wrong to agree to the loan. Therefore, I do not intend to uphold this 
complaint.Mr F didnt provide any new information in response to my provisional decision and 
Nationwide agreed with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained before providing credit, lenders need to assess the ability of 
the consumer to be able to make the repayments in an affordable way over the loan term. 
There arent specific checks that need to be carried out, but the regulations say these need 
to be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the 
length of the credit being provided, the frequency of its use, the repayments and the total 
cost of the credit.
As no new information was provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions 
havent changed. That is, I think it would have been reasonable in this case to have carried 
out further checks given the limited information received through the credit check. But, 
considering what I think it most likely Mr F would have declared had further questions been 
asked, I do not find I have enough to say that Nationwide was wrong to provide the lending. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this 1complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
1 