DRN-4099631
The complaint
Mr S has complained about delays and misinformation given to him by Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) at the time of maturity for his child trust fund (CTF). 
What happened
Mr S CTF matured in February 2022, as he turned 18 years-old. 
Prior to this, he was in contact with Nationwide (through his parents) to ascertain what 
information would need to be provided to ensure smooth payment upon maturity. Nationwide 
acknowledge that unfortunately, they didnt inform Mr S that the identification documents 
required, would need to be certified. 
Despite receiving the necessary certified documents in April 2022, the CTF wasnt closed 
until September 2022. Mr S didnt finally receive the funds until 10 October 2022. 
Mr S complained to Nationwide. He said the misinformation and subsequent delays had 
caused significant distress and inconvenience. Nationwide responded and offered a total of 
£275 for the impact of their errors. They also say they paid Mr S a further £40 for the cost 
incurred in chasing this up, such as telephone calls. 
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
An investigator looked into it but didnt think Nationwide had done enough. He said that a 
more appropriate amount considering the impact, was £350. 
Nationwide agreed to this in settlement of the complaint. However, Mr S didnt agree. He 
said that the amount didnt fairly compensate him for the inconvenience caused. As no 
agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I would like to acknowledge how difficult and frustrating this period will have been for 
Mr S. I understand the impact that waiting for funds and being given such misinformation can 
have. I am pleased to see that Nationwide have made regular attempts to put things right 
and also agreed to the settlement put forward by the investigator. 
I believe that the CTF should have been closed and paid to Mr S, within a month of maturity, 
had the correct information been given prior. This means that in this case, I believe the 
errors caused up to 6 months of avoidable delays. I note that part of the delay was caused to 
a missing cheque which Nationwide have provided evidence that they did send, so I dont 
hold them responsible for this. There was also an issue with the name on the subsequent 
cheque not matching Mr Ss bank account, but I am satisfied that is not the fault of 
Nationwide and they issued the cheque correctly. They also then made reasonable attempts 
to resolve the matter by making a direct bank transfer. 
Having considered the impact this had on Mr S, I think a total of £350 compensation is 
reasonable in the circumstances. I note that Mr S hasnt provided any details of what he 
intended to or did use the funds for. I note previous comments that a property purchase was 
missed due to this, however I dont find that a reasonable conclusion and havent been 
provided with any further evidence of it. I must also state that Mr S is the eligible consumer 
here and not either of his parents, so I am only considering the impact on him and any 
losses that he suffered personally. 
In summary, I think the amount that Nationwide have agreed to pay of £350 compensation, 
for the impact the delays had on Mr S, is fair in the circumstances. I note that Nationwide 
have also said that they paid Mr S £40 separately for additional costs such as calls made to 
raise the complaint and chase the funds. I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further 
to this. 
My final decision
My final decision for the reasons set out above, is that I uphold the complaint and think that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr S £350 (less any compensation payments 
already made) to put things right, if they havent already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman