DRN-3162718
The complaint
Mrs F says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mrs Fs complaint shouldnt be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings, are below in italics and it forms 
part of this final decision. 
This complaint is about four home collected loans Morses provided to Mrs F between 
July 2017 and February 2019.
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 14/07/2017 £300 33 26/01/2018
2 26/01/2018 £300 33 08/08/2018
3 08/08/2018 £300 33 28/02/2019
4 28/02/2019 £400 33 26/03/2021
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He thought the lending pattern itself showed that by loan 
4 Mrs F wasnt repaying her lending sustainably. So, he thought that Morses shouldnt have 
approved this loan.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that it didnt think four loans in 19 months 
was excessive and that the information it had about Mrs Fs income and expenditure showed 
that the lending was affordable. The increase in the loan amounts was small overall.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs F could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Im currently minded not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint and Ive explained why below.
For loans 1 to 3 Mrs F needed to repay £15 a week for 33 weeks. This increased to £20 a 
week for loan 4 over the same term.
Ive seen a record of the information Mrs F provided when she completed her loan application. 
Mrs Fs income seems to have varied. It was £450 a week for loan 1, this fell to
£175 for loan 2. It rose to £220 for loan 3, and again to £311 for loan 4. Her expenditure was 
generally around £175 a week except for loan two when it was recorded as being £110. So, I 
think it was reasonable for Morses to think that these loans were affordable for Miss F.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Mrs F mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mrs Fs circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the 
information it obtained.
Our adjudicator said that the lending pattern itself showed that Mrs F was struggling 
financially and that she was likely to be reliant on the lending. But the repayments seem 
reasonable and the loan amounts didnt vary by much. And looking at the account statements 
Morses has provided it seems that Mrs F wasnt having any obvious problems making the 
repayments until the mid-point of loan 4.
I agree that 19 months is a reasonably long time to be using high cost credit. But taking 
everything else into consideration I dont think this means the lending was unsustainable in 
this case. So, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mrs F was reliant on this lending and it 
wasnt causing her significant problems when Morses approved the loans.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for loans 1 to 4 were 
proportionate. And I currently think its decision to lend for loans 1 to 4 was reasonable. Im not 
intending to uphold Mrs Fs complaint about them.
Morses, and Mrs F, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. And neither 
party had anything to add after theyd seen it.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses and Mrs F didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, 
Ive reached the same conclusion I reached before, for the same reasons, that Morses 
wasnt wrong to lend to Mrs F. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021. 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman