DRN-2942193
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as T complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly 
declined a claim under its business protection insurance policy.
Mr R who is a director of T brings the complaint on Ts behalf.
What happened
T has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy with Covea. Mr R made a claim 
on that policy to cover his losses arising from the business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Covea declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
compulsory closure meant that his claim should be covered.
Mr R complained to Covea but it explained that, although his policy would provide cover in 
the event of certain infectious diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Mr R wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that, while he sympathised with Mr Rs situation, he didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy. Mr R didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R is looking to claim on his business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Covea acted fairly in declining his claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy Mr R took out. 
Mr Rs policy included an extension which provided cover for compulsory closure. The policy 
states that it provides cover for Interruption of or interference with the business in 
consequence of compulsory closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access 
to the premises arising fromdiscovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious 
disease at the premises.
The policy provides a definition for the term notifiable human infectious or contagious 
disease, which sets out a list of specified illnesses that are covered under the policy. 
However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
Given that COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt 
expect it to be included in the list. But there are policies that provide cover for all notifiable 
diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and which does 
now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that subsequently 
became notifiable. In contrast, Ts policy includes a list of notifiable diseases as it was at a 
particular time. And I havent seen anything in the policy which implies that cover will be 
provided for diseases not on the list set out in the policy, including for any new diseases 
which emerge. The policy specifies that no other diseases can be added to the list without 
Coveas prior written consent, which Im satisfied has the purpose and effect of limiting cover 
to those diseases listed within the policy. 
There are other clauses in the policy which look like they could provide cover including 
Damage and Prevention of Access. However they require there to be physical damage to 
property in order for the policy to respond to a claim. And as I dont think COVID-19 caused 
physical damage to property, I dont think these terms provide cover in these circumstances.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on Mr R. But 
for the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I 
dont think Covea acted unfairly in declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman