DRN-1433732
The complaint
Mr E and Ms F complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr E and Ms F took out a joint mortgage with Halifax in 1987. They also took out PPI for 
Mr E to protect their monthly mortgage repayments in the event that he couldnt work. 
In 1991 they took out a further advance on their mortgage and applied at the same time for 
PPI to cover their new mortgage monthly repayments if Mr E couldnt work.
Around December 1994, Mr E applied to take on sole responsibility for the mortgage. About 
the same time, he also applied for additional borrowing on the mortgage account and a new 
PPI policy. He paid a monthly amount for the policy and it protected his mortgage 
repayments against accident, sickness and unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr E and Ms F disagreed with our adjudicators 
view. 
Mr E and Ms Fs main complaint is that PPI isnt something that was wanted or needed. 
They told us that Mr Es sick pay benefits through work and their savings meant they didnt 
need PPI. And Mr E told us he cancelled the first policy hed taken out sometime in 1989 and 
that he must have been talked into re-applying for the later policies by Halifax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
As Mr E and Ms F had a joint mortgage at the start Ive looked at both their circumstances 
when the insurance was taken out. 
Its understandable that Mr E and Ms F mightnt be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when they arranged their mortgage  and later when they made changes to their 
mortgage account. All this was a long time ago and so I cant safely rely only on what they 
say now. 
Where the evidence is inconsistent or incomplete as some of it is here, I will make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I think is likely to have 
happened taking into account all the information thats available, what the parties have told 
me and also thinking about what we know about these types of sales at that time. 
what happened in 1987
I think Halifax made Mr E and Ms F aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to 
have it for Mr E. Heres why I say this.
Theres nothing mentioned about having to take out PPI on the mortgage application Mr E 
and Ms F completed. But it looks like someone has added a handwritten note saying that 
Mr E was interested in having PPI and hed taken away a leaflet about it.
And it seems he decided to take out this insurance because Mr E completed a separate PPI 
application a few days after filling in the mortgage application. Mr E put his name down as 
the person to be insured and indicated the amount of monthly benefit he required and he 
signed the completed form to get the policy. 
So I think that Mr E and Ms F were aware that it was up to them to choose if they wanted to 
take out the policy with their mortgage  and that they opted to do this for Mr E at the time.
Halifax says it recommended the policy. So Ive checked to see whether it was right for 
them. 
When thinking about the policy benefits, I have to rely on the best available evidence  and 
in this case that means looking at a 1993 policy document that Halifax has provided. This is 
the earliest available policy of this type. I've got no reason to think that this policy wording is 
likely to be significantly different from the wording used in any earlier version of Halifaxs 
mortgage PPI, at least so far as the main policy benefits and terms are concerned. So I think 
its reasonable to rely on this policy document to give an idea of the main likely terms.
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr E wasnt eligible for the PPI policy given his 
circumstances and the terms and conditions that applied. 
Mr E was covered for accident, sickness and unemployment. Ive taken into account that 
Mr E told us he was entitled to 3 months full sick pay followed by 3 months' half pay. But if 
he made a successful accident or sickness claim the policy wouldve paid out on top of any 
work benefits, in full and for significantly longer - up to 12 months per claim. This couldve 
been useful if he had extra costs as a result of being too ill or disabled to work  especially 
as he would've only had half pay after the first 3 months off work and his pay wouldve 
stopped altogether after 6 months off sick.
PPI wouldve also covered him if hed lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. The 
policy provided long term protection as Mr E couldve made repeated claims on it. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from his employer wouldnt have helped Mr E if he was 
off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve 
got if hed lost his job, giving Mr E some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Apart from having around £4,000 in savings, Mr E and Ms F told us they didnt have any 
significant other means to rely on to pay their mortgage if Mr E wasnt working. I dont know 
if Mr E and Ms F wouldve always had savings to fall back on if Mr E wasnt working. And the 
amount of savings mentioned isnt enough to make me think that the PPI wouldnt still have 
been useful. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I think that Halifaxs recommendation 
was suitable.Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr E and Ms F about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. 
There were some things the policy probably didnt cover. Ive taken into account that Mr E 
told us about a medical condition he had at the time he took out this PPI. But, although 
absence from work due to his condition mightve been excluded under the policy, Mr E said 
hes never had to take time off work as a result of this condition. So I think its unlikely that 
Mr E wouldve expected to claim under the policy for this condition. Or that he wouldve been 
put off taking out the policy because of it. So this information doesnt affect my decision. 
And it doesnt look like any of the other policy limitations or exclusions wouldve affected 
Mr E. So I dont think having more information about these policy terms wouldve stopped 
him taking out the PPI.
I dont know if Mr E and Ms F were made aware of the monthly premium for the PPI. But 
they chose to take out PPI for Mr E when they didnt have to  so it seems Mr E and Ms F 
were happy to pay for the cover they wanted at the time and it doesnt seem to have caused 
them any money problems. So thats not a reason for me to uphold their complaint.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr E and Ms F still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr E even if theyd been 
better informed as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation.
what happened in 1991
I cant be sure exactly how Halifax explained PPI to Mr E and Ms F during the course of 
discussions when they took out a further advance on their mortgage. 
But in order to get the PPI policy added on to their mortgage, Mr E had to complete a 
separate application. So although I dont know what he was told about the PPI, I think he 
would've been aware that it was up to him to apply for the PPI if hed wanted to have it. 
And bearing in mind that Mr E told us hed cancelled his previous PPI policy, I think he 
wouldve understood when he signed up for this new policy that having PPI wasnt a 
requirement of his mortgage account. 
I appreciate that Mr E feels that the fact he cancelled an earlier policy shows that PPI wasnt 
something he wanted or needed. But I think its likely that when Mr E and Ms F took out this 
extra borrowing they decided they wanted to have the benefits of PPI in order to protect their 
home from being put at risk if Mr E found himself unable to work and having money 
problems. 
Mr E completed a separate PPI application. On this form, he put his name down as the 
person to be insured and he signed the completed form to take out the policy. 
And I can understand why Mr E and Ms F mightve thought PPI could be useful for them. 
The policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per accident, sickness or unemployment 
claim. As far as I can see their circumstances were broadly the same as theyd been when 
they first took out their mortgage. So this meant they were able to benefit from all the 
protection I've described above. 
And the policy gave Mr E and Ms F long term protection for all the borrowing they now had 
on their mortgage account.The monthly premium for the PPI was set out on the application form Mr E filled in to get the 
cover. So he wouldve been aware of this extra cost when he signed up for the policy. And it 
looks like he also took out some extra benefit which he couldve used to help pay other costs 
 like household bills. 
So it seems Mr E and Ms F were happy to pay for the cover they wanted at the time and it 
doesnt look like keeping costs down was a priority for them. 
Taking all their circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the way Halifax sold 
them this policy, I dont think that better information wouldve put Mr E and Ms F off having it. 
I think they would still have bought the policy to cover Mr E when they borrowed extra on 
their mortgage in 1991.
what happened in 1995
Towards the end of 1994 Mr E applied to transfer the mortgage into his sole name and he 
borrowed extra in order to do this  taking out PPI at the same time. 
Theres nothing mentioned on the paperwork I've seen that wouldve been likely to make 
Mr E feel that having PPI wasnt optional. And, as hed done before, he filled in a separate 
application  form in order to apply for the policy. So I think Mr E understood that it was up to 
him to say if he wanted to take out PPI. 
Bearing in mind that Mr Es financial circumstances were broadly the same as theyd been 
when hed first taken out this mortgage in 1987, and he now had a bigger mortgage, his 
monthly repayments had increased and he was now solely responsible for making the 
mortgage repayments, I can see why Mr E mightve wanted the security and protection that 
having PPI offered. And overall, I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to say that PPI was 
added to the account without Mr Es knowledge or consent.
This new policy offered him protection for up to 24 months for each accident or sickness 
claim. As well as up to 12 months protection if Mr E lost his job unexpectedly and found 
himself out of work. Mr E told us he continued in the same employment and had the same 
work benefits. So I think this policy offered Mr E useful benefits and gave him substantially 
more cover than he wouldve had if hed just been relying on the other means available to 
him if he wasnt able to work.   
Mr Es ongoing medical condition might have been excluded under the policy. But as it still 
wasnt a condition hed ever had to take time off work for Mr E wouldnt have had any reason  
to think it was likely hed need to claim under the policy for this condition. This means I dont 
think its likely that he would have been put off taking out the policy because of this policy 
limitation. And it looks like he wouldve been able to take advantage of all the other policy 
benefits  including claiming for accident or sickness unrelated to his ongoing condition. 
So even if all the policy limitations and exclusions werent properly explained, I dont see any 
reason why this wouldve affected Mr Es decision  I think hed still have taken out this new 
PPI given his particular circumstances at the time and the useful benefits it offered him.
The application form Mr E filled in to take out this PPI showed how much it would cost each 
month. This meant he wouldve had an idea of what hed have to pay for this cover. He also 
signed up for extra benefit to cover other costs over and above the mortgage monthly 
repayments. 
So it looks like Mr E selected the amount of benefit he wanted at the time, knowing what 
hed be paying on a month to month basis for this level of cover, and that this reflected his 
wishes at the time. As this was a policy Mr E paid for monthly, he was able to amend or cancel it at any time at 
no extra cost if his circumstances changed or he decided he no longer wanted to pay for it. 
Thinking about all of these things, whilst its possible there were shortcomings in the way 
Halifax sold this policy to Mr E, I dont think that having clearer information wouldve changed 
Mr Es mind about having it. I think its likely that he would still have bought this policy.
What else I've considered
For the reasons I've explained, I dont think that Halifax mis-sold any of these policies to 
Mr E and Ms F. This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr E and Ms F about that. 
Because Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt tell Mr E and Ms F, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E and Ms F.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman