DRN-3782646
The complaint
Mr K complains Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance policy. 
Any reference to Fairmead includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr K has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Fairmead. 
In February 2022, Mr K contacted Fairmead to log a claim for damage caused to his 
property following a storm. 
Fairmeads surveyor attended the property but said the damage to the roof wasnt 
covered because the adverse weather conditions had instead highlighted an existing 
issue, namely wear and tear and a lack of maintenance.
Mr K disagreed and said he didnt know about the rot in the roof beams because it 
couldnt be seen and so, he wouldnt have known he needed to maintain it.  
Unhappy, Mr K brought a complaint to this Service. An investigator considered it and 
said he was satisfied the claim had been declined fairly. 
Mr K remained unhappy and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken account of the requirements set by the Regulator which includes that insurers 
must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably decline a claim. I have 
considered whether Fairmead dealt with Mr Ks claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy document which provides cover in the event of 
damage caused by storm. 
It says, This policy covers the costs of unexpected loss or damage; it does not cover 
wear and tear.  It goes on to say, we will not pay for gradual events  any loss, 
damage, or liability arising from wear and tear that you know is happening gradually 
over time. So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear damage caused by wear and 
tear which happens over time isnt covered.
Its not in dispute that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened. So, it needs to be determined whether the damage is 
consistent with that which could be caused by a storm, and if it is whether a storm 
was the main cause of the damage.
Ive looked at the photographs provided and can see the roof has become detached 
from the property. And Im satisfied this sort of damage could be caused by a storm.  
To determine whether the storm was the main cause of damage Ive looked at the 
expert report provided by Fairmeads surveyor and the photographs provided by           
Mr K.
Ive noted Mr Ks comment that the contractor who repaired his roof said the roof 
frame was perfect, solid and no rot at all.  But I must keep in mind that these are 
anecdotal comments and havent been substantiated with a report detailing why the 
contractor considers that to be the case. 
Conversely, the surveyor who attended Mr Ks property is an expert in their field and 
has provided a report which explains that other parts of the roof were also in need of 
maintenance and that an external lack of maintenance was visible. Ive looked at the 
photographs and can see that the fascia boards are also rotten, so Im not persuaded 
by Mr Ks argument that he couldnt have been aware of the damage as the roof 
beams couldnt be seen. 
Fairmead explained to Mr K that if he provided an expert report supporting his 
position it would consider this, but I cant see that Mr K has done so. 
So, in the absence of evidence which supports Mr Ks position, Im more persuaded 
the damage to his roof occurred over time as a result of wear and tear and/or lack of 
maintenance and that Fairmead therefore, declined the claim fairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman