DRN-4169063
The complaint
Ms A complains that Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter (RS) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In August 2022 Ms A applied for a loan with RS. RS approved the application and gave Ms A 
a loan for £4000 repayable over 48 months with a monthly repayment of £114.62.
Ms A complained that RS had lent to her irresponsibly. She said shed applied for the loan 
after a CCJ was removed from her credit file at a time when she was desperate for money 
and already held several credit cards.
RS didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before lending 
to Ms A.
Ms A was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said RS had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Ms A didnt agree. She said she didnt earn the level of income that RS used in its 
affordability assessment and that she had multiple credit accounts at the time she applied for 
the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Ms As complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, RS needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Ms A could afford to repay what was being lent to her. Theres no set list of 
checks that a lender has to carry out, but lenders need to have regard to the amount of the 
loan, the total amount repayable, the length of the term, the monthly repayments and the 
consumers individual circumstances.
Ms A declared that she was employed with an income of £30,000 when she applied for the 
loan, with a net monthly income of £2019.03. RS verified this using an industry tool.
RS carried out a credit search and took into account Ms As existing debt repayments and 
other expenses to calculate her monthly disposable income. It decided that Ms As monthly 
disposable income of around £747 was sufficient for her to sustainably repay the loan.
Ms A has said that she had several unpaid credit accounts at the time she applied for the 
loan. Ive reviewed the information from the credit search carried out by RS, but I cant see 
any evidence of missed payments or defaulted accounts.
Taking the amount of the loan into account, as well as the other factors Ive mentioned, I 
think the checks carried out by RS were reasonable and proportionate. Theres nothing in 
the information gathered from the checks which wouldve given RS cause for concern or 
necessitate further checks.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Ive looked at the information 
gathered by RS. Theres nothing to suggest that Ms A was struggling to repay her existing 
credit commitments or that she was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the loan. I 
appreciate that Ms A has said that RS should have seen that she took out credit cards 
before she applied for the loan. However, these credit cards arent showing on the credit 
search carried out by RS, so I cant fairly say that RS should have taken these into account.
Ive taken on board what Ms A has said about her gambling problems. She has said that this 
wouldve been apparent from her bank statements. Theres no obligation on a lender to look 
at bank statements before lending. And as Ive already said, I think the checks carried out by 
RS were reasonable and proportionate.
Taking everything into account, I think the lending decision was fair.
Ms A doesnt agree that she declared annual income of £30,000 when she applied for the 
loan. RS has told this service that this is the information provided by Ms A in her application 
form. If Ms A is saying that she didnt complete the form then she will need to raise this issue 
separately with RS first.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman