DRN-3572034
The complaint
Mr C complains about a finance agreement he took out with Zopa Limited (Zopa).
What happened
In July 2019 Mr C entered into a finance agreement with Zopa. Under the agreement Mr C 
borrowed £10,000 the agreement was to last for 36 months. Mr Ws monthly repayments 
were £424.30. The purpose of the loan was debt consolidation.
Mr C complains that Zopa ought not to have lent to him as the lending was unaffordable. 
Specifically, Mr C considers that the finance was unaffordable primarily because of the very 
high interest rate and fees that came along with it. He indicates that at the time that Zopa 
lent to him he already had a poor credit rating with high credit utilisation and a history of 
payday loans and defaults.
Further, Mr C tells us he was only able to make repayments to the finance agreement for 
three months before he fell behind on his repayments. He tells us he then went into a debt 
management plan (DMP). However, the DMP has now ended.
Given, that Mr C thinks that Zopa was in the wrong to lend to him at all, he has asked that he 
be allowed to repay the money he owed but without paying interest or charges he also wants 
a refund of the £400 admin fee.
Zopa does not agree that it did anything wrong. Rather, it outlined the steps it takes before 
lending, in its opinion it has a very strict lending criteria. It goes on to say when assessing 
an application to borrow from it, it considers a number of factors. These factors include, but 
are not limited to, information from credit reference agencies, how the consumer has 
managed pre-existing debt, debt to income ratios, and the information provided by the 
consumer. Further, Zopa suggests it also looked at Mr Cs bank details, employment 
information, his payslip, and a bank statement. Based on all the information it gathered, 
Zopa concluded that Mr C could afford to borrow the £10,000 from it. Moreover, it indicated 
that the interest, charges, and admin fee were all part of the contract. By signing the contract 
Mr C had agreed to pay these. For all of these reasons, Zopa did not agree that it had done 
anything wrong. It followed that it was not prepared to take the action that Mr C had 
requested.
Dissatisfied, Mr C complained to our service.
Once Mr Cs complaint was with us, he provided some further information. He indicated that 
in the months before he entered into this agreement, he had already gone over his credit 
limits on all of his other accounts. Mr C also told us that prior to entering into the finance 
agreement he had been using his £2,000 authorised overdraft with a third-party, who I will 
call H. Mr C let us know that he also had other informal debts outstanding which he owed 
to a friend and to a relative. These two debts were interest free. In Mr Cs opinion Zopa 
made his financial situation worse because he replaced his interest free loans with Zopas 
loan which came with what he sees as high interest and high charges. However, Mr C also 
told us he paid off these two loans not with the Zopa loan but by selling his car, and by using 
a bonus from work.
In addition, Mr C also raised a new matter. He told us that in June 2021 Zopa had told him 
that it had written-off the balance of the loan. Mr C said he then stopped the DMP because 
Zopa was the only remaining creditor. But then he was contacted by a third-party business 
who I will call C. C told him it had purchased the debt from Zopa and began to chase him 
for it. He wanted to know it seems if Zopa had acted correctly specifically whether Zopa 
could sell on the debt under a finance agreement after he had been told the debt had been 
written-off.
I considered Mr Cs complaint and I issued a provisional decision. In that provisional 
decision, this is what I said about what Id decided and why:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Why I have found that Zopas checks did not go far enough
When Zopa lent to Mr C it was a regulated business providing regulated finance. That meant 
it had certain obligations to fulfil before it lent to him. Under the relevant regulations at that 
time Zopa was obliged to make sure that its lending was affordable and responsible. In 
particular, it was required to carry out checks that were proportionate in the circumstances, 
which might include considerations about the amount borrowed and Mr Cs borrowing 
history.
That said, exactly what a lender should consider was for each lender to decide, however, the 
rules listed a number of factors which a lender such as Zopa might have wished to consider. 
Further, Zopa had to be able to demonstrate that it did enough to ensure that Mr C could 
repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on his financial 
situation. This assessment needed to be borrower focused. Taking into account the relevant 
rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I think there are some overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C wouldve been able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way?
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I conclude that Zopa didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr C and that 
he has lost out as a result, Ill go on to consider what is a fair way to put things right.
As set out above, the regulatory framework requires Zopa to have carried out a 
proportionate assessment, based on sufficient information, of whether Mr C could afford 
to repay the loan with it in a sustainable manner. This affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focused in the sense that rather than focusing on the credit risk for Zopa the 
assessment needed to have sufficient checks to satisfy it that Mr C would be able to 
repay the finance sustainably, without the repayments having a significant adverse impact 
on Mr Cs financial situation.
Zopa told us what checks it carried out before it lent to Mr C. Zopa indicated that, amongst 
other things, it had requested and reviewed information about Mr C from both Mr C directly 
and from credit references agencies, it looked at how his pre-existing debt had been 
managed by him and also it took into account debt to income ratios based on the data it 
gathered. Moreover, Zopa also looked at what Mr C was actually earning and one bank 
statement. I appreciate that this information would have given Zopa insight into Mr Cs 
actual income and expenditure.That said, Mr C suggests that Zopa did not take proper account of his pre-existing debt. As 
I have already mentioned he indicates that he was not managing his debt before he took 
on new debt and Zopa should have realised this and asked him more about this. 
Specifically, he suggests that he exceeded the credit limits of all of his credit accounts, was 
using payday loans inappropriately and that he was using the authorised overdraft of one 
of his two current accounts.
From the information Ive seen, Mr C had indeed recently exceeded the credit limits of 
some of his accounts. In particular, from the information about his credit file that I have 
available to me, at the time Mr C applied for the finance he had gone over his credit 
balance on several of his credit card accounts. The fact that Mr C had gone over these 
available balances could have indicated that Mr C was struggling especially since we are 
talking about more than one account here.
Also, I can see there were a number of payday loans that appeared to have been taken out 
and paid off over the course of 2017 and 2018. But the mere fact that he was using payday 
loans does not, by itself, suggest Mr C was taking on too much debt. Especially since the 
payment history of these debts was satisfactory and they were not recent.
However, I can also see Mr C was using his agreed overdraft facility on one of his two 
current accounts. He had a current account with H. This account appeared to move in 
and out of the overdraft facility although it seems it was mainly overdrawn. The other 
current account was with a third party I will call S. This account was in credit at the time. 
It seems Mr C supplied Zopa with a statement for this account when he applied for finance 
with it.
I can see why Zopa thought it had done enough Mr Cs situation was finely balanced. 
However, I take account of the fact that Mr C wanted to borrow a relatively large amount 
over a relatively long time. Moreover, some of the information indicated that Mr C was 
having issues managing his existing credit. In the circumstances, given the very individual 
details of this complaint, I find that Zopas checks did not go far enough.
Why I have not found that the lending was unaffordable
That said in order to uphold Mr Cs complaint I have to be satisfied that if Zopa had carried 
out the checks it should have done, it would have found that Mr C could not afford to borrow 
from it. The situation here is not clear-cut. On the face of it when I look at Mr Cs income and 
his essential expenditure his income was sufficient to cover the repayments from Zopa. 
Also, Mr Cs payment history for this finance did not suggest the lending was unaffordable. 
He was able to make his initial repayments seemingly paying from his income rather than 
using still more credit to repay this credit.
Mr C has suggested that we did not take account of his informal borrowing from his family 
and his friend when calculating if he could afford to repay Zopa. He indicates that when 
these repayments were considered, he did not have sufficient disposable income for day-
to- day living.
But Mr C has provided us with inconsistent information about these informal loans. At first, 
he did not mention these loans at all. Then he indicated that he paid off these debts with 
the new money he borrowed from Zopa. If that was so, then it seems that his repayments 
to Zopa were lower than his monthly repayments for his informal borrowing. If this is what 
happened, then he did apparently have sufficient for day-to-day living. Then he suggested 
that the informal lending repayments continued even after he took out the finance with 
Zopa. Mr C suggested his informal lending was paid off later by selling his car and with a 
bonus from work. Further, I have not seen information to show that Mr C was obliged to 
continue making these repayments even after he took out the loan with Zopa, in any event. 
These inconsistencies have impacted on the weight I have been able to give to Mr Cs stance in relation to these debts However, should Mr C want to explain these 
inconsistencies I will look at and think about his reply before I issue my next decision.
Moreover, Mr C had significant sums of money coming into his account such as a 
payment of around £4,400 in June 2019 and a payment of around £2,500 in April 2019 
and Ive seen no explanation for these sums or why they ought not to be considered as 
part of Mr Cs income. When I take on board these payments it further strengthens the 
suggestion that Mr C could afford the lending. Nonetheless should Mr C want to provide 
an explanation for these sums I will consider what he says before I issue my next 
decision.
Further, the thrust of Mr Cs complaint has evolved over time. He told us his initial 
complaint was that the interest and the charges were too high for the Zopa finance. But 
whilst the interest and charges might have been higher than other lending nothing, I have 
seen persuades me that Mr C couldnt afford to make the repayments simply on the basis 
that when the interest and charges were taken into account this made the lending 
unaffordable..
In the circumstances, Ive no proper basis for saying that the lending was unaffordable.
Mr C has now raised the issue of the debt being both written-off apparently and then 
being sold on. This appears to be a new matter and has not been considered by Zopa in 
its final response to Mr C or investigated within this complaint. It follows that I am unable 
to look at this matter in this decision.
Both Mr C and Zopa now have till the due date set out above to send in any further 
information, should they wish to do so. All I would add is that any final submissions should
be materially new. Neither party needs to repeat what its said to us before.
Finally, I said that provisional decision was:
My provisional decision is that I dont currently intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
As far as I am aware Zopa did not respond to the provisional decision, however Mr C did 
respond. In summary, Mr C reiterated his previous stance that the lending was not 
affordable. Specifically, Mr C indicated that his finances were in such a state of disarray 
when Zopa lent to him that it ought to have realised this. Further, as a result, it should not 
have lent to him. Mr C highlighted again that several months after he took out the loan, he 
entered a debt management plan and he suggested this shows the lending was not 
affordable. Mr C explained that the £2,500 Id mentioned was his salary, he could not recall 
what the £4,400 was for. 
Moreover, Mr C explained that any apparent inconsistencies in his recollections and any 
apparent changes in the nature of his complaint were simply due to the fact that he was 
trying to recall events from three years ago. Moreover, he pointed out he was also just trying 
to answer the questions we had raised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr C for his response to the provisional decision. Ive thought about what he said, 
and Ive also looked at the file for this complaint again.
The remaining issue here seems to be was the lending affordable. Mr Cs very strong 
position is that the lending was not affordable, Zopas stance is that it was affordable. I dont agree that Mr Cs finances before Zopa lent to him were in such a situation that on 
the face of it Zopa ought not to have lent to Mr C. I already went through this point in great 
detail in the provisional decision and therefore I think there is no benefit in repeating the 
same reasoning again here given Mr C is not raising new points but repeating his previous 
ones. 
Mr C suggests his debt management plan means that the lending from Zopa was 
unaffordable in that from his perspective, the lending inevitably led to the need for the plan. 
Mr C did enter into a debt management plan; however, it does not seem on balance that it 
was this lending that led inevitably to that and therefore by extension I should find the 
lending was unaffordable. Rather, I note that Mr C did not take out the loan with Zopa and 
then immediately enter into the debt management plan there was a gap of several months 
between the two events.
Mr C has given further information about the sums of money coming into his account. I 
realise that it can be difficult to recall details about finances years after the event. However, I 
have to be satisfied that I have a full enough picture of Mr Cs financial situation at the time 
to look at the issue of affordability fairly. Mr C has not been able to explain one of the large 
payments into his account or explain why this money ought not to have been treated as 
income. In the circumstances, the unexplained large payment into his account which directly 
impacted on his ability to make his repayments strengthens the finding that he could afford 
the repayments.
I can well understand that Mr C felt obliged to answer the questions we raised. But I dont 
think this explains the inconsistencies I mentioned in the provisional decision. For example, 
nothing we asked about explains why Mr C did not initially mention his informal loans and 
then told us different things about how hed paid off these loans and how his finances were 
impacted.
I have not been persuaded by Mr Cs responses to the provisional decision. It follows that I 
have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I set out in the provisional 
decision and repeated again above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman