DRN-2232756
The complaint
Miss K complains that the loan she had from Loans 2 Go Limited was unaffordable to her.
  
What happened
Miss K took out a fixed sum loan with Loans 2 Go on 23 July 2019. She borrowed £1,200 
and was due to repay £274.27 monthly for 18 months, finishing on 23 January 2021.
Miss K says that she doesnt believe Loans 2 Go carried out proper affordability checks 
before it approved her loan. She says she already had multiple loans at the time and the 
interest charged on the loan was very high. Miss K adds that the loan has caused her further 
financial problems and stress which could have been avoided had the loan been declined or 
charged at a lower rate of interest. She says Loans 2 Go allowed her to pay reduced 
payments for two months but will not acknowledge it was wrong to have approved the loan 
or agree a reasonable repayment amount.
Loans 2 Go says it verified Miss Ks financial disclosures by using external data sources, 
including her credit file.  It says that although it adjusted both her declared income and 
expenditure, it still found the loan repayments to be affordable. Loans 2 Go adds that it has 
done its best to engage with Miss K to help with her current financial situation.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said that she wasnt 
satisfied Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate checks. She said, had it done so, its 
likely to have found Miss Ks expenditure exceeded her income and shed borrowed £5,000 
from short term loan providers in the lead up to the Loans 2 Go loan. Our adjudicator 
recommended that Loans 2 Go should deduct any payments Miss K made from the 
principal, with no interest added. It should then attempt to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for the balance. She said it should also ensure that any associated negative information is 
removed from her credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that it had adjusted Miss Ks income downwards 
when assessing the loan and that her credit report did not show £5,000 of short-term 
lending. It acknowledges the credit report showed previous defaults, but none were recent 
and the report showed she was managing her credit commitments. It argued that its checks 
were proportionate and the credit report did not give cause for concern.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Loans 2 Go lent to Miss K. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ks case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Ks loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen evidence to show Loans 2 Go asked about Miss Ks financial circumstances, 
checked her credit file and verified her income. But Im not satisfied that these checks went 
far enough. I say that because:The loan was over a term of 18 months and Loans 2 Go needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
The monthly repayments on the new loan were almost 20% of Miss Ks verified income;
Loans 2 Gos analysis showed potential discrepancies between its checks and Miss Ks 
declared income and credit expenditure;
The credit check showed:
oMiss K had defaults on her account, although none were in the previous six 
months;
oMiss Ks credit commitments were higher than the £200 shed declared:
Shed taken out a large high-cost loan five months earlier with repayments 
of £236 per month;
She had two active credit cards with a combined balance of over £400;
There was a combined balance of over £600 on two of the defaulted 
accounts;
In particular, I find Loans 2 Go should have been concerned that, with the new loan, Miss K 
would be repaying over £510 per month on high-cost loans. This equated to over 34% of the 
income Loans 2 Go used in its affordability calculations (and 27% of Miss Ks declared 
income). I think Loans 2 Go should have realised that this could be an indication of someone 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So I think Loans 2 Go should have seen from the available information that Miss K might 
already be struggling to manage her money and should have carried out further checks.
For the above reasons, I consider Loans 2 Gos checks should have included a full review of 
Miss Ks financial circumstances, including further verification of her income and 
expenditure.
So, Ive had a look at Miss Ks bank statements to see what they showed as a reasonable 
proxy for what Loans 2 Go might have found out had it looked into Miss Ks finances in more 
depth:
Miss Ks income was £1,541, as compared with the £1,900 shed declared, but I 
acknowledge Loans 2 Go had already adjusted this figure downwards;
Miss K made regular payments totalling almost £1,000 each month;
The monthly spend on food and petrol was about £230;
Taking the above into account Miss K was left with £329 of disposable income, before 
making the £274.27 repayment;
Included in the above expenditure were regular payments to two debt management 
companies;
Miss K also spent roughly £200 per month on gambling in the months preceding the 
loan;
In the month immediately prior to the loan, Miss K borrowed almost £8,000 from five 
other high cost loan providers;
oTwo of these were the day before the Loans 2 Go loan, so I accept that these 
may not have been apparent to Loans 2 Go even if it had carried out further 
checks;
oThe first monthly repayments on the remaining three totalled over £630.
In summary, Miss Ks bank statements showed she had insufficient disposable income to 
comfortably make the repayments, even before the gambling and further loans were taken 
into account. Combined with the payments to the debt management companies, there were 
clear indications that Miss K was already struggling to manage her money.So Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown it was irresponsible 
to lend to Miss K and Loans 2 Go did not make a fair lending decision.
I acknowledge what Miss K says about Loans 2 Go not agreeing a reasonable repayment 
plan and I can see at one point it appeared to agree to a plan that was identical to Miss Ks 
contractual repayments. However, Loans 2 Go did agree to accept much reduced payments 
for two months on the understanding Miss K would be in contact again in October 2019. As 
Miss K had complained about the lending by that time, I cannot conclude that Loans 2 Go 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in that respect, or in any other way.
But I do find that Miss K was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the loan and that Loans 
2 Go was wrong to lend to her.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss K received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss K made should be deducted from this amount;
oIf this results in Miss K having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss K. 
Remove any negative information about the loan from Miss Ks credit file up to this 
point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman