DRN-2961133
The complaint
Mr X has complained that Metro Bank PLC registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud prevention agency.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, and its important that we preserve Mr Xs 
anonymity, so I will summarise what happened in brief.
Mr X received some money into his Metro account that was then withdrawn or transferred 
on. It turned out these were fraudulent funds. Mr X was a minor at the time.
Mr X says a person befriended him and told him they didnt have a properly working bank 
account. This friend asked if they could pay Mr X money and have him withdraw or send it 
on for them. At first, Mr X agreed. He explained he was young and didnt think to ask further 
questions, and he felt intimidated by them. He then became hesitant. He says the friend got 
other people involved from a gang, who assaulted him and made violent threats to Mr X and 
his family. They also visited his home. In the end, they took his phone  which had their 
conversation logs. They also stole his card, and coerced him into giving them the PIN.
Metro closed Mr Xs account and registered a CIFAS marker against him.
The following year, Mr X asked Metro to remove the marker. He explained it had been a very 
traumatic experience which hed wanted to forget, and he had not been in control of what 
happened. He explained hed been unable to get even a basic bank account since, and was 
at risk of losing his university place as he could not receive his student loan.
Metro have declined to remove the marker, broadly for three reasons:
Mr X said his phone was stolen, but later spoke to Metro using the same number
Mr X had not been able to evidence that he was assaulted
Mr Xs testimony focused on how some branch transactions were carried out, but 
didnt specify how some cash machine withdrawals had happened. Metro felt 
Mr X may have left those withdrawals out because hed benefitted from them
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint, as he also 
felt it was suspect that Mr X had not accounted for the ATM withdrawals. Mr X asked for an 
ombudsman to look at things afresh. He explained he was young and didnt understand how 
this all worked. Hed left details out as he didnt know how safe we or Metro would keep his 
information, and he didnt want the perpetrators to trace things back to him and make good 
on their threats. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr X and Metro a provisional decision on 14 July 2021, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro needed 
to have more than just a suspicion or concern about Mr X. It needed to be able to show that 
it had reasonable grounds to believe that Mr X had knowingly attempted to commit fraud or a 
financial crime. Importantly, it also needed to have strong evidence of this, to a standard that 
would support reporting Mr X to the authorities.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think the marker should be removed  Ill explain why.
Metro pointed out that Mr X had said his phone was stolen, but some time later he spoke 
with the bank on the same phone number. Because of this, Metro feel his version of events 
may be false, and that he may have willingly and knowingly participated in the fraud. 
However, Mr X explained that after his phone was stolen, he bought a cheap replacement 
device and simply asked his phone company to transfer his number to his replacements 
SIM. And that makes perfect sense  thats what most people would do.
Indeed, this matches up with the phone calls Ive listened to. For example, around a month 
after the fraud, a staff member asked if Mr X had access to his number, and he said only as 
of recently. At one stage he couldnt both read a text and keep a call going as he was on a 
cheap non-smart replacement phone which didnt have that capability.  He also mentioned 
on several occasions  usually unprompted  that his phone and card had been stolen.
So I dont think this was a good reason for Metro to add a CIFAS marker. Indeed, I think the 
evidence broadly supports what Mr X says happened to his phone.
A second reason Metro had for adding this marker was that Mr X hadnt been able to prove 
he was assaulted or coerced into complying with the perpetrators. But while I understand 
Metros thinking, I dont think it was reasonable for them to require Mr X to produce that sort 
of evidence here. Its not realistically possible for Mr X to evidence what the gang told him in 
person, and they took his phone so he cant pass on any message histories. And by the time 
Metro asked for this evidence, it had been just under a year since the assault  so its not 
like Mr X could give them photos of bruises or procure CCTV footage. Further, the onus here 
is on Metro to evidence that Mr X knowingly and willingly tried to commit a crime, not on 
Mr X to prove that he didnt. So I dont think Metro took the most reasonable approach there.
Lastly, Ive considered the gap in Mr Xs testimony. I acknowledge that he didnt specifically 
talk about the cash withdrawals until our investigator asked about them, and I think this is a 
fairly finely balanced issue. I can understand why our investigator felt this undermined Mr Xs 
version of events.
However, the problem here is that Metro didnt properly investigate things with Mr X at the 
time. They simply closed his account and added the CIFAS marker. I cant see that they 
spoke to him first or got any detailed testimony. From what I can see, the first detailed 
testimony Mr X gave was nearly a year after the events in question, and his conversations 
with our investigator were around a year and a half after. Because Metro didnt discuss 
things with him at the time, I dont have any contemporaneous testimony to compare his 
current testimony with. It also means I need to bear in mind the difficulty of piecing together 
potentially traumatic events a long time after the fact. Mr X was only a minor, and throughout his communication with Metro and our service hes 
been frank about how scared and traumatised hes felt. He explained that he wasnt sure 
how safe he would be giving over all the details of what happened to us or Metro, and he 
was worried that if he said too much he could put himself or his family in danger. Our 
investigator argued that if that was the case, Mr X wouldnt have given us the details hed 
already given. But while I appreciate that argument, Im conscious that people acting in fear 
will often act less than entirely logically  not least if theyre young and unsure what to do. 
And what Mr X says happened does otherwise seem most plausible. Having listened to the 
calls involved, he really seemed quite shaken about being assaulted and about the threats 
levelled against himself and his family.
Further, it seems like somewhat of a leap to assume that just because Mr X didnt talk about 
the cash withdrawals at first, it must mean that he benefitted from them. Its also perfectly 
plausible that he was coerced into making them  or letting the gang make them  in the 
same manner as the branch transactions, as he now says he was. And its possible that 
Mr X struggled to talk comprehensively about what happened because of potential factors 
such as being a minor, having trauma, acting under fear or duress, dealing with intimidating 
and unfamiliar financial matters on his own, and/or trying to piece things together again a 
significant time after the fact.
Importantly, Metro dont actually appear to have any evidence that Mr X benefitted from the 
fraudulent funds. He didnt keep any of the money in his account or transfer any money to 
other accounts in his name. And Metro havent provided anything to suggest that Mr X was 
flush with cash after this. Mr Xs existing testimony gives a plausible account of what 
happened to the fraudulent money  that he was misled and coerced by criminals into 
accepting it into his account and then passing it on. It bears repeating that Metro can only 
justify this CIFAS marker if they have strong evidence that Mr X knowingly tried to commit a 
crime  suspicions or assumptions are not sufficient. 
In other words, while we may not be able to rule out that Mr X benefitted from the funds, 
there does not appear to be any significant evidence which shows he benefited from them, 
and in these particular circumstances we also cannot rule out that Mr X was simply taken 
advantage of by criminals.
So in summary, I do understand why Metro added the marker, as I think they had good 
reason to be suspicious of Mr X. But I dont think they had quite enough evidence to meet 
the bar of recording a CIFAS marker against him, not least given their lack of investigation. 
I am not currently satisfied that Mr X knowingly and willingly tried to commit a financial crime, 
nor that he benefitted from it  though I am fully conscious of the possibility. I think the risk of 
Mr X being an innocent party is too great to justify this CIFAS marker remaining.
It follows that while I dont think Metro acted entirely unreasonably here, I think it would be 
more reasonable for them to now remove the CIFAS marker.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
11 August 2021. Mr X didnt have anything further to add. Metro sent in some further 
submissions, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro felt they hadnt been unreasonable in expecting evidence of Mr X suffering the abuse. 
But as I explained in the provisional decision: while I understand Metros thinking, I dont 
think it was reasonable for them to require Mr X to produce that sort of evidence here. Its 
not realistically possible for Mr X to evidence what the gang told him in person, and they took 
his phone so he cant pass on any message histories. And by the time Metro asked for this 
evidence, it had been just under a year since the assault  so its not like Mr X could give 
them photos of bruises or procure CCTV footage. Further, the onus here is on Metro to 
evidence that Mr X knowingly and willingly tried to commit a crime, not on Mr X to prove that 
he didnt. So I dont think Metro took the most reasonable approach there. Metro have not 
added anything new there, so my position remains the same.
Metro pointed out that they spoke to someone on Mr Xs phone number who did not sound 
like Mr X. They argued that if this was the person who Mr X said was abusing him, then it 
meant his story was not plausible as that person was trying to help Mr X and ensure a 
CIFAS marker wasnt registered against him.
As I said in the provisional decision, it seems like all the calls in question were made on a 
replacement phone after Mr X recovered his number. Mr X never claimed this other person 
was the person who assaulted him  it appears that Metro just assumed hed say that. 
Instead, Mr X explained this was a family member who hed asked to speak to Metro on his 
behalf when he felt too intimidated to talk. Metro could have clarified this had they carried out 
a comprehensive investigation and spoken to Mr X about this.
Metro pointed out that Mr X didnt question where the credits came from. I understand their 
point, and thats certainly something I might be more concerned about if Mr X was an adult 
or otherwise experienced with financial matters  or if, for example, hed claimed that the 
money was owed to him. But Mr X never claimed he was entitled to the funds. And he was a 
minor with little to no experience with financial matters. Indeed, if he got threatened and 
coerced by criminals  as hes consistently explained  then its perhaps rather unsurprising 
that he didnt question them about the source of their funds. Again, its worth reiterating that 
Mr X was only a minor.
Metro said that Mr Xs account was opened just before the fraud, which indicated it might 
have been opened for the purpose of fraud. I understand that argument too, and again if 
Mr X were an adult then it might look rather odd to open an account and then not use it soon 
after. But at his age and stage in life, it seems quite normal to open an account in advance 
without needing to use it straight away. Being a minor, its not like he wouldve had wages to 
pay in or a mortgage to pay out. And again, if Metro had done a reasonable investigation at 
the time and questioned Mr X about this, then Id have contemporaneous testimony about 
this. But Metro did not investigate things with Mr X at the time. And so while I think theyve 
provided a reason to be suspicious of Mr X, I dont think they have enough to justify a CIFAS 
marker against him.
Metro pointed out that Mr X had checked his online banking at points, and that it was most 
likely Mr X who made the branch transactions. Therefore they were satisfied the genuine 
customer was involved. But Mr X never denied knowing that his account had been used  
indeed, he consistently explained that it was him who authorised the branch transactions, on 
the instructions of the fraudsters. The crux of the issue is that he says he was misled and 
coerced into helping them.Lastly, Metro highlighted that the fraudsters had left a small fraction of the money involved in 
Mr Xs account. Metro felt that showed it was most likely that Mr X had benefitted from the 
fraud. Its not clear why this money was left in the account; it may have been a mistake or 
the criminals may have originally intended to use the account further, and so on. But given 
the sums involved, I dont find it to be a particularly significant amount, nor an amount Id 
expect to be a payment to Mr X. And if it was intended as a payment, it would have made 
much more sense if theyd just handed the cash to him rather than deposited it in an account 
which  according to Metro  would have only been set up for fraud. Metro havent provided 
anything else to substantiate their assertion that this small fraction of the funds was left over 
as a payment to Mr X  again, this looks rather assumptive on Metros part. And again, they 
never questioned or investigated this at the time. Its also worth pointing out that it looks like 
Mr Xs account was frozen and then closed with this money still inside  in which case I cant 
see how Mr X has benefitted from it.
So having reconsidered the case, I maintain that I understand Metros position and accept 
they had good reason to be suspicious of Mr X. But I dont think they had quite enough 
evidence to meet the bar of recording a CIFAS marker against him, not least given their lack 
of investigation at the time. I am not satisfied that Mr X knowingly and willingly tried to 
commit a financial crime, nor that he benefitted from it  though I am fully conscious of the 
possibility. I think the risk of Mr X being an innocent party is too great to justify this CIFAS 
marker remaining.
Therefore I direct Metro Bank PLC to remove any fraud marker they registered against Mr X 
in relation to this matter.
Its worth reiterating that I understand why Metro and our investigator came to the respective 
conclusions they did, and that this was a finely balanced issue. Mr X came very close indeed 
to having this marker remain for the full period, with all the consequences that entails. I hope 
that he will keep this in mind and will strictly avoid any similar situations in future.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Xs complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to remove the fraud marker in 
question.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman