DRN-3930687
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he had and the valuation offered when he made a claim 
from West Bay Insurance plc trading as Zenith Insurance (West Bay) under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had a motor insurance policy with West Bay and in December 2021 he was involved in 
an accident when a third party drove into the rear of his car.
Mr G told West Bay about the accident. He initially told West Bay that he was telling it on a 
notification only basis because he wanted to know how much West Bay would value his car 
at. West Bay asked for photos of the damage to his car.
Mr G sent some photos but West Bay didnt work on them until late-January 2022.
There was some delay and confusion because West Bay didnt understand that Mr G 
wanted to make a claim for his car.
Using the photos, West Bay then assessed Mr Gs car as being beyond economical repair. It 
said his car would be a category B write-off and assessed its value as £553.
Mr G complained. West Bay later reassessed the cars value as £700 and it also agreed the 
car should be changed to a category N write-off. 
Mr G assessed that he couldnt repair the car in the time West Bay would allow him (30 
days) or for the amount of money hed get. So he withdrew his claim.
Mr G complained about West Bays service. He said hed waited for 90 minutes for calls to 
be answered. He thought West Bays procedures were confusing and caused him a great 
deal of stress. He didnt think it was fair that he had to pay his excess when the accident was 
the third-partys fault.
West Bay awarded Mr G £150, which it later increased to £300, as it didnt think its service 
had been very good. It explained why there had been delays during Mr Gs claim because 
hed initially asked for a valuation rather than to make a claim. West Bay also said it was its 
standard practice that Mr G paid his excess, and West Bay would try to recover this from the 
third party.
West Bay Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and thought West Bay had acted fairly. They 
thought that West Bay had acted according to its terms and conditions by applying the 
excess as it did. They werent able to check the value of Mr Gs car using our normal 
process because it was too old to appear on the trade guides we use. But they thought West 
Bays service had been poor and the £300 compensation it had offered Mr G was fair.
Mr G didnt agree with the view, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr G that I have read all of the information Ive been provided. I can see 
from the file that Mr G is very stressed by West Bays actions during his claim. He makes the 
point in his response to the view that for [this service] to find no fault I find astonishing!
Id like to assure Mr G that the view does say that West Bay gave him poor service during 
his claim. West Bay had offered Mr G £300 compensation for its failings, and our investigator 
felt that amount was fair and in line with this services guidelines.
Its the role of this service to look at whether West Bay has acted fairly and reasonably and 
in line with its terms and conditions. Having thought about this carefully, I think West Bays 
service throughout Mr G claim has been poor. I think it missed several opportunities to help 
Mr G understand what was happening. Mr G points this out in his correspondence with this 
service:
The Claims department assumed Id understand their meaning, but I have no 
experience of motor insurance claims.
I can see from the file that Mr G initially asked West Bay for a valuation for his car. So, when 
West Bay sent him letters telling him that he wasnt making a claim, I can understand why he 
thought West Bays service was poor. 
Then there was a delay in getting the photos of his car to West Bay. Ive read Mr Gs 
explanation of when he sent the photos and further details about the accident, and I can see 
why West Bays claims process has added to his frustration. Its clear that he provided the 
information it needed, but at every point of contact Mr G was delayed or redirected in some 
way.
West Bay wrote to him again in late January and he responded straight away with the 
information it needed, but hed already sent most of that information to West Bay over the 
previous month.
Mr G points out that his car wasnt inspected by West Bay to assess its value. I can see from 
his evidence that he truly enjoys his car which hes owned for a considerable time. Ive 
looked at West Bays policy document and it doesnt say whether it will physically inspect a 
car. Ive thought about whether its reasonable of West Bay to review cars using photos and I 
think it is, in this case, because Mr Gs car is of a value where a physical inspection would 
cost a sizable proportion of the claim.
When West Bay told Mr G his car would be written-off, it said he would need to have the car 
repaired within 30 days. Mr G realised he wouldnt be able to do this. And the amount West 
Bay would pay him wouldnt be enough to cover the cost of repairs. 
I can understand Mr Gs frustration. He owns a car which seems to show a small amount of 
damage, which he continues to drive. 
But its important that I say hes only entitled to claim the vehicle value from West Bay under 
its policy. A motor insurance policy isnt a blank cheque for repairs. Mr G would be entitled 
to the vehicle value if it was written-off; or the cost of repairs if West Bay decide it can be repaired economically. Its West Bays choice in doing this, which is in line with other 
insurers. 
Mr G has previously talked about the value of the car. Our investigator has said that the age 
of Mr Gs car means that our usual approach of using trade guides to assess a reasonable 
value wont work. Ive carried out some research into asking prices of similarly aged cars as 
at the time of writing and I think West Bays determination of value is within a range I think is 
fair.
Ive also considered Mr Gs point about being charged his excess, which could then be 
recovered by West Bay from the third party. This is in line with much of the insurance 
industry and I dont think its unfair of West Bay to do this.
Ultimately, Mr G withdrew his claim due to his frustrations with West Bays claims process, 
as well as the fact that he couldnt repair his car within the time limits West Bay said, or for 
the payment it made to him.
West Bay has told this service that it has recorded the claim as settled non-fault on an 
external database. It has also confirmed its reinstated Mr Gs No Claims Discount.
Im therefore left to consider the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G by West Bays 
service, which Ive said above I think has been poor throughout his claim. The call wait times 
have been excessive and hes received poor and conflicting correspondence and guidance. 
Hes waited many times for West Bay to respond and has been forced to chase it up.
Ive thought carefully about this, and considered this services guidelines to compensation. 
Taking everything into account, I think West Bays offer of £300 compensation for its 
mistakes is fair and reasonable and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
My final decision
West Bay has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that West Bay Insurance plc trading as Zenith Insurance should pay Mr G 
£300 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman