DRN-2015526
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the amount offered by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) following a 
claim under his roadside assistance insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr S got in touch with IPA following a breakdown. Mr S was abroad at 
the time and needed to be back in the UK in a few days time for meetings he had.
As I understand it, Mr S then stayed in a local hotel for the night and was then given a hire 
car the next day to drive back to the UK. 
Mr Ss car was towed to a local garage. After Mr S approved a diagnostic test the garage 
said the cost of repairs would be €10,000  costs hed have to pay himself.
Mr S felt this was significantly higher than costs hed pay in the UK, so asked for his car to 
be returned to a garage hed chosen. IPA organised for a company to do this, who Ill call 
Company C.
When Mr Ss car was returned to him around a month after his initial breakdown, he noticed 
damage to the alloy wheels and the archway and complained about this. He also said that 
hed left a laptop and laptop bag in the car when itd been taken away, which were now 
missing.
Because of all of these issues Mr S complained to IPA.
IPA replied to the complaint and said the manager of Mr Ss UK garage told them the 
archway on the car had been damaged while being unloaded there. But said while 
Company C accept damage to the archway, they dont accept they caused any damage to 
the alloy wheels and had photos taken before the car was loaded to show these were fine. 
Company C also said they werent made aware of Mr Ss laptop and laptop bag while 
abroad, and because the car was security tagged, Company Cs operator wouldnt have had 
access to the inside of the car.
IPA agreed they were responsible for the damage to the archway of the car, but didnt 
accept responsibility for damage to wheel, or for the laptop and its bag. In total they offered 
£500 by way of an apology and sent this to Mr S by cheque.
Mr S didnt agree with this and asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so 
and felt IPA were also responsible for the damage to the wheel  so felt IPA should cover 
the full cost of repairs for both the archway and the wheel. But he didnt think Mr S had 
provided enough to show the laptop and its bag were in the car, so didnt agree IPA should 
refund this.
Upon receipt of our investigators findings IPA asked Company C if they had anything further 
to add. Company C said they werent made aware of the laptop at the time, so dont accept 
any liability for the loss of an item they werent initially made aware of. Company C didnt 
reply on the archway or the alloys, and IPA said they wanted an ombudsman to look into the 
complaint without clearly explaining why they disagreed.
Mr S also asked for an ombudsman to decide the complaint. He said he didnt understand 
that if theyve accepted liability for the damage done to the car why does he only get £500 
when it will clearly cost more to fix.
Our investigator reconsidered matters and decided IPA should pay the cost of the repairs to 
the wheel arch and alloys, plus 8% as Mr S has already paid this. And he felt £150 
compensation was fair  adding that if IPA have already paid Mr S the £500, they can take 
this off the amount of the repairs. Mr S didnt have any more to add, and IPA didnt reply by 
the deadline set.
Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of evidence to prove what happened, I need to consider what I think is most 
likely to have happened, taking into account all of the evidence Ive got.
Its not in dispute the archway, and alloy wheels, have both been damaged. IPA have 
accepted theyre responsible for the damage to the archway, but not the alloy wheels. While 
I understand IPA are relying on information theyve been given by Company C  I think its 
more likely than not the archway and the alloys were damaged at the same time.
I say that because for there to be a second incident, where different damage was caused in 
the same general area of the car, this time not involving Company C, seems very unlikely. I 
have considered the photos Company C have provided, but I dont think these show alloy 
damage didnt occur while the car was with them. So, I think its appropriate IPA pay for 
those repairs.
I note Mr S originally claimed for his laptop and laptop bag as well. IPA have said the outside 
of the car was sealed, and even Company C couldnt have gone in to the inside of the car.
Having looked through all the information on file Ive not seen enough to show the laptop and 
its bag was left in the car. I also note our investigator came to the same conclusion, 
explained this to Mr S, and hes not responded on that point.
And as a result of the claim not being handled correctly in my opinion, Mr S has had to 
arrange repairs himself  which is something that I think IPA should have organised, as they 
/ their agent are responsible for the damage. So, for this reason I also think compensation of 
£150 is appropriate.
Putting things right
Pay the cost of the repairs to the wheel arch, and alloy wheels, upon receipt of 
appropriate evidence
 
Pay 8% interest from the date Mr S made those payments, to the date of settlement
Pay Mr S £150 compensation for the trouble and upset causedIPA can deduct the value of £500 from the overall settlement figure if Mr S cashed the 
cheque he was sent.
HM Revenue & Customs requires IPA to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. IPA must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he asks 
them for one.
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold this complaint, and order Inter Partner Assistance SA to carry out 
the actions Ive listed out in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman