DRN-3930796
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined cover for a claim made 
on a legal expenses insurance policy.
While Mr and Mrs M bring the complaint to our service jointly, as they are both named 
policyholders, the claim was made by Mrs M as it relates to her employment. She has been 
the point of contact throughout the claim and complaint. 
The policy and claims are administered on Amtrusts behalf by a third party. Where I refer to 
Amtrust within this decision, this includes its representatives acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M hold legal expenses insurance with Amtrust. Following a disciplinary 
investigation, Mrs M was dismissed by her employer. She appealed against this and was 
reinstated but with a final written warning. Mrs M resigned and sought to take legal 
proceedings against her employer for constructive dismissal. She made a claim seeking 
cover for her legal expenses in these proceedings.
After obtaining information and reviewing the claim, Amtrust declined cover. It said Mrs M 
was part of a group taking legal action against the employer, and the policy didnt cover this.
Mrs M complained to Amtrust and then our service. While she acknowledges her colleagues 
are taking similar legal action against her employer, she says there are specific 
circumstances of her claim which differentiate it from the other claims. Our investigator 
thought Amtrust had acted fairly. Mrs M didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general exclusions section of the policy lists a number of exclusions which apply to all 
sections of cover. One of these general exclusions says theres no cover for Costs if your 
claim is part of a class action or will be affected or will affect the outcome of other claims.
As this is an exclusion to cover, the onus is on Amtrust to demonstrate that it more likely 
than not applies to the circumstances of Mrs Ms claim.
In the absence of a definition in the policy of class action, I have to take the ordinary and 
normal meaning of this. Outside of commercial law, theres no formal concept of a class 
action in the law of England and Wales (which is the relevant territory for Mrs Ms claim). 
However, I think the commonly understood meaning of class action is where a group of 
claimants take the same action against a defendant for broadly the same reasons.
The circumstances of Mrs Ms claim are well known to both sides and so I wont go into 
detail of these. Briefly, Mrs M was a member of a group on social media where matters 
relating to her employment were discussed. Her managers became aware of this and a 
disciplinary process was started. Following a hearing, Mrs M was dismissed. She appealed 
this and was reinstated with a final written warning. Mrs M disagreed with the outcome and 
resigned. She initiated dispute resolution and then employment tribunal proceedings, saying 
shed been constructively dismissed. 
Amtrust says the exclusion applies to Mrs Ms claim because a number of her former 
colleagues have also started proceedings against the same employer. Its accepted that all 
of the claimants were part of the same employment tribunal proceedings. The same legal 
representative was acting on behalf of all of the claimants.
All of the claimants were members of the same social media group and discussion as Mrs M, 
and disciplinary proceedings were taken by their employer in relation to the messages 
shared on that group. 
Looking at the particulars of claim submitted by the claimants legal representative, I think its 
fair to say that the same arguments were made to advance their claims, even if the 
requested resolution or employment status of the claimants differed. Some were still 
employed, some had been dismissed and others had resigned. 
The legal representative (on behalf of Mrs M and the other claimants) argued the social 
media group should considered to be private, there was unfairness in the investigation and 
disciplinary proceedings and the relevant processes and procedures werent followed, and 
the claimants had been discriminated against because of their age. 
Mrs M says her case was brought individually, and points to specific features of her claim, 
employment and treatment from her employer. She also notes that she, along with some 
(but not all) of the claimants were made a settlement offer after mediation. I acknowledge 
these points but dont think they affect the central issue here which is that all of the claimants 
brought claims which have, at their core, the same issues  that they were the subject of 
what they perceive to be unfair disciplinary proceedings because of messages they 
exchanged on a social media group, and that the disciplinary action was motivated by age 
discrimination. Each of the claimants will have individual circumstances, and may receive 
different offers of settlement at different times, but that doesnt mean the claimants dont 
collectively form a group.
Im satisfied the documents submitted to the employment tribunal reflected the actions 
against the employer were being brought by a group of current and former employees, who 
were all arguing theyd suffered detriment as a result of their membership of and involvement 
in the same social media group. They all argued the investigation into their actions was 
unfair, and the relevant disciplinary processes werent properly followed. They also all 
argued that the motivation in taking disciplinary action was, at least in part, because of their 
age.
On that basis, I think its reasonable to say Mrs Ms claim would be affected, and would 
affect, the other claims. It follows that if the tribunal made findings one way or the other 
about the privacy of the social media group, the investigation into the alleged misconduct or 
the fairness of the disciplinary proceedings then those findings would likely affect all, or more 
than one, of the claimants. The same, broadly similar or overlapping arguments would be 
advanced by Mrs Ms legal representatives to cover all the claimants, as suggested by the 
particulars of claim, and evidence to be sought from the employer would likely affect more 
than one of the claimants cases.
Im satisfied that a group of claimants was bringing the action against the employer. The 
terms and conditions specifically exclude such a claim from cover. Amtrust has acted fairly when it declined cover for Mrs Ms claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. Amtrust acted reasonably when it declined 
cover for the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman