DRN-3661365
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc  trading as first direct (first direct) rejected his 
application to open an account.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr R applied to open a current account with first direct. The application was 
declined.
Mr R complained. He said he had an valuable account with first directs parent company; he 
had no borrowing; a very high credit score; he owned his own property without a mortgage; 
and had a regular job and was in the higher tax bracket. So - he couldnt understand first 
directs decision.
First direct said Mr R didnt meet their account opening criteria. They used credit scoring 
based on the information Mr R gave to them, plus information provided by credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). First directs internal credit scoring system was commercially sensitive. 
But beyond that, they couldnt give Mr R any more information about the decline.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said first direct acted reasonably. 
Mr R asked more questions  including what CRA information first direct had used. Our 
investigator discussed this with first direct, who showed us the CRA information theyd used. 
This showed the Mr Rs credit file showed a linked address  and his application was 
declined. Our investigator showed Mr R the credit file report that first direct used. Based on 
that, he said first direct followed their processes and therefore acted reasonably. But beyond 
that, he couldnt share first directs approval criteria for new customers  as that is 
commercially sensitive. 
Mr R asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that everything that Mr R told us about his circumstances appears reasonable  his 
credit score was high; and his credit file reflects that his bank accounts and credit 
agreements have all been paid on time for the last 12 months; or settled (i.e. repaid). So, 
first directs decision to reject Mr Rs application for a current account does look strange  as 
he has said.
First direct showed us the CRA report theyd used - and our investigator sent it to Mr R. It 
shows a linked address. This showed a person with the same name as Mr R, at another 
address. This was fed into first directs approval system and resulted in a rejection.
We can only make a decision based on how first direct used the information available to 
them to make a decision. And in this case  we can see they followed their processes and 
reached their decision in that way. We cant ask them for example, to change their 
processes or approval systems. We also cant ask first direct to divulge to Mr R what their 
approval criteria are  they are commercially sensitive.
Mr R has challenged that. And to clarify  we are saying that first directs internal approval 
criteria and processes are commercially sensitive. In other words: for example, what 
information is fed into their assessment; the relative weightings of such pieces of 
information; and the decision pass marks. And that remains our position here.
Im pleased to see that Mr R has now learnt more about the CRA information which was part 
of first directs assessment of his application. He has said to us that there must be an error 
on his CRA report  that the person shown as a linked address is nothing to do with him. In 
that case, he should contact the CRAs and ask for his credit file to be amended. The CRAs 
have a process for that  called Notice of Correction. I suggest he follows that to put things 
right in the way he wants.
But as far as Mr Rs complaint goes  first direct followed their account opening approval 
processes and relied on the information they derived from various sources, including CRAs. 
So  Im not asking then to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman