The complaint
Ms H complains to Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) that she has discovered she was a 
joint account holder on an account with her former husband, of which she had been 
unaware. She wishes to be removed from the account. She also complains that when her 
husband was declared bankrupt in November 2018 Barclays didnt freeze the account to 
stop the charges accruing.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms H and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any great 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Ms Hs former husband (D) held an account with Barclays in his own name. In 2005 Ms H 
was added to it. In November 2018 Mr H was declared bankrupt and the Insolvency Service 
wrote to Barclays advising them of that in March 2019, although Barclays have said they 
werent aware of the bankruptcy until July 2019. At the time of his bankruptcy there was a 
debit balance on the joint account.
When Ms H learned that the debt to Barclays was not included within the bankruptcy, she 
contacted Barclays and raised her complaint. Barclays do not consider that they have done 
anything wrong. They produced evidence showing Ms H had been added to the account, 
and as she was jointly and severally liable for the account, the charges had been properly 
applied.
Ms H was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, concluded that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the 
complaint fairly.
Ms H didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
DRN-1552826I have considered both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Barclays has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
The evidence Barclays has produced shows that D opened the account in his sole name. In 
2005 there is a record confirming that a member of Barclays staff had added Ms H to the 
account at Ds request, and had seen Ms Hs NatWest cheque guarantee card as 
identification evidence. 
In addition to that Barclays sent Ms H correspondence and statements over the years, and 
issued debit cards and renewals to Ms H. There is no record that Ms H ever approached 
Barclays to state that she was unaware of the account being in her name. On the face of it 
that indicates she was happy and content to be a joint account holder. 
I have considered Ms Hs contention that D would keep things from her, but that doesnt 
explain her presence at the initial meeting to add her to the account, or the issue of debit 
cards to her. 
I also note that prior to D being declared bankrupt there was an attempt to remove Ms H 
from the joint account, again indicating that she was aware of its existence. 
Given that Ms H says she was unaware of the existence of the account I have considered 
alternative possibilities, those being that Ms H wasnt present at the initial meeting in 2005, 
that she never saw any of the correspondence or debit cards issued to her because D 
intercepted them, or that it wasnt she who was requesting to be removed from the account 
in September 2018. Weighing up the possibility of all of that being true, it would mean Ms H 
was unaware of the existence of the account for 14 years, despite all that activity, which I 
think is highly improbable. So, in my view there is enough evidence to allow me to conclude 
that it is more likely that Ms H was present at the time she was added to the account and 
has in fact been aware of its existence.
I also understand that Ms H was told that Barclays had her signature to add her to the 
account but wouldnt show her that. Barclays havent specifically commented on that point, 
and I havent seen that signature either, but its absence doesnt alter my view, as there is 
sufficient other evidence to satisfy me that Ms H knew she was a joint account holder on this 
account. 
I have also seen the letter from the Insolvency Service to Barclays dated 22 March 2019. No 
explanation has been offered by Barclays as to why it took until July for them to recognise 
that D had become bankrupt. Ive thought about that and also considered the Termination 
Notice that was sent to Ms H in April 2019. The latter indicates Ms H would know from that 
point that Barclays were demanding repayment of the overdrawn balance. She would also 
know that charges would be most likely applied for an account in that state, since the 
statements show that they were. So, given that Ms H was a joint account holder she was 
liable for the debt, irrespective of Ds status, and so the issue is whether it was fair for 
Barclays to add those charges.
That issue is resolved by looking at the terms and conditions of the account, which provide 
for the application of charges in certain circumstances, such as Ms H found herself in with an 
overdrawn account. Having looked at those terms and conditions, I cannot find fault with 
Barclays in applying the charges. Whilst I empathise with Ms H, given that she is now left with this debt to Barclays and D isnt, 
I cant say Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman