DRN-3404287
The complaint
Miss S has complained to Mercer Limited, trading as Mercer Jelf Financial Planning, about 
her pension funds being moved twice, which she says happened without her knowledge, and 
that this has caused her financial disadvantage. 
As a result of the initial move, her additional pension contributions werent invested. And 
once the second move had happened, Miss Ss contributions continued to be paid to the 
previous managed portfolio.
And when Mercer terminated its agreement with Ms S in December 2019, Miss S says that it 
didnt make her aware that her pension funds would be moved into cash.
Miss S has also said that the fees levied on her pension funds have been higher than was 
agreed.
What happened
Miss S had been a client of Jelf Financial Planning since 2005, which then became Mercer 
Jelf Financial Planning from 2015 (and was then fully integrated into Mercer Limited in 
February 2018, albeit operating under the same trading name).
Under Jelfs discretionary fund management (DFM) service, which it called the Managed 
Portfolio Service (MPS), Miss Ss funds were invested in accordance with her objectives and 
attitude to risk.
When Jelf Financial Planning became Mercer Jelf Planning in 2015, it changed the company 
it used as a platform provider, but the DFM remained the same and Miss S was invested in 
the Mercer Jelf 6 Portfolio (MJ6P). Unfortunately, due to the change of platform provider, 
Miss Ss contributions werent invested and, having complained about this, Miss S was 
compensated for this accordingly.
As part of the transfer of Jelf Financial Planning into Mercer in 2018, the DFM was then 
undertaken in house, which meant that the MJ6P was replaced and Miss Ss pension funds 
were moved to the Mercer Jelf Managed Portfolio Service 6 (MJMPS6). The risk profile and 
strategy of the portfolio remained the same, but there was a change to the underlying 
assets.
Miss Ss additional contributions then continued to be invested in the MJ6P rather than the 
MJMPS6 for three months. The misdirected payments were moved to the latter portfolio, and 
Mercer initially offered Miss S a small amount of compensation in respect of the financial 
loss this had caused - £19.05. But Miss S didnt accept this and also expressed concerns 
about the level of service she was receiving.
This was dealt with as a formal complaint, and Mercer replied in late March 2019 saying that 
a review of the matter had demonstrated that Miss S had in fact made a gain of £167.57 
through the incorrect investment of her contributions in the previous portfolio. But it 
maintained its offer of £19.05 as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss S continued to express dissatisfaction at the findings in response to her complaint, and 
Mercer issued a further response in November 2019 to address the remaining areas of 
concern.
In December 2019 , Mercer issued 30 days notice  by letter - of its intention to cease 
providing services to Miss S. It said that the advice and DFM services would be removed, 
but that she could continue to hold her current range of collective investment funds on the 
same platform.
This information was repeated in an email of 14 February 2020, and it added that whilst 
some of Miss Ss investment could remain as they were, others couldnt be retained on the 
same platform. These would automatically be sold and the proceeds paid into a cash 
account. But this email was unfortunately redirected to Miss Ss spam mailbox.
Miss S logged into her account in late March 2020 and realised that a significant proportion 
of her pension funds  nearly 79% - had been disinvested into cash.
Miss Ss complaint, as set out above, was referred to this service, and one of our 
investigators considered the matters. He said the following in summary:
He thought the issue to determine was whether the changes to Miss Ss portfolio 
were made with her knowledge and consent and whether they resulted in financial 
disadvantage to her.
He initially addressed the 2015 migration, setting out the different roles undertaken 
by the various parties involved. He also said that when the merger occurred in 2015, 
Miss Ss pension funds would continue to be managed by the same entity, following 
the same principles, and maintaining the same risk profile. It was simply an 
administrative change.
There was, overall, a small net reduction in charges as a result of the migration, and 
so Miss S hadnt been financially disadvantaged. He also said that no additional 
costs had been incurred and the issues surrounding the direct debit error were 
resolved in 2017.
He then assessed the transfer to Mercer in 2018, saying that although Mercer had 
sent Miss S a letter telling her about this, and that shed received it, it had become 
clear from speaking to her that she hadnt understood its relevance. Miss S had said 
that she first became aware of changes when she received a letter dated 31 October 
2018 which informed her that her direct debit contributions were still being directed 
to the previous portfolio.
It was also apparent that Miss S hadnt signed the new terms of business or portfolio 
management agreement  as confirmed by Mercer in an email to her on 4 February 
2020.
The investigator therefore concluded that Miss S had been unaware of the move to 
the in-house DFM and that it had been implemented without her signing a new 
agreement. And that Mercer hadnt explained the changes in a way which Miss S 
could understand. And he therefore didnt think it was unreasonable for her to be 
reluctant to sign new contracts in October 2018, especially given the mistakes which 
had previously been made.
He then considered whether thered been a material detriment to Miss S as a result 
of the change of DFM service. He said that, as far as he could tell, the service provided was broadly the same, and that the portfolios were operated on similar 
principles and with the same objectives and risk profiles.
However, he also noted that the £750 misdirected into the old portfolio grew by over 
£167.57 in the six months it was held in it, compared to its notional performance in 
the new portfolio  a difference of 22%. And so he thought it was understandable 
that Miss S had queried whether the move of portfolios was in her best interests.
Miss S had said that, had she been aware of the changes, and given her existing 
dissatisfaction with the service provided, she would have taken this opportunity to 
look for an alternative adviser and investment management service.
The investigator then considered the termination of services which Mercer had 
conveyed to Miss S on 20 December 2019. He said that this happened with 
reference to a particular clause of the terms of business, but that Miss S had never 
signed those terms of business with Mercer Limited.
Although the letter said that Miss S would continue to hold the current range of 
collective investment funds, this wasnt accurate, and the majority of her investments 
were disinvested into cash. The investigator said that Mercer should have made 
Miss S aware of this. 
However, Miss S would have been responsible for the reinvestment of her pension 
funds once shed become aware of the situation, he said.
The investigator summarised by saying that it was understandable that Miss S lost 
confidence in Mercer due to what had happened and that, when her pension funds were 
disinvested after the termination of the service agreement  which she hadnt signed  it was 
possible that shed suffered financial loss as a result.
He recommended that Mercer undertake a calculation to determine whether any loss had 
been caused to Miss S by firstly comparing the performance of the MJMPS6 with that of the 
MJ6P from when the switch happened in February 2018 to a point three months hence  
saying that this would have been sufficient time for Miss S to have found an alternative 
service provider. 
The investigator said that a further calculation should be undertaken comparing the actual 
performance of Miss Ss pension funds with one of our benchmark indices from that point 
three months after the portfolio switch, up to 31 March 2020, as this was when Miss S 
became aware that most of her investments had been moved into cash. 
He also said that Mercer should pay the additional sum of £500 to Miss S for the poor 
service shed received and the inconvenience shed suffered.
In response, Mercer requested a letter of authority so that it could seek the required 
information to undertake the recommended calculation.
It then contacted the investigator to say that, on the basis of its calculation it had determined 
that there had been a gain of £8,876. It also didnt think that it should pay the amount of 
£500 in respect of the service provided to Miss S, as it had already addressed this. Following 
further contact between the investigator and Mercer, however, it agreed to pay that further 
amount.
Miss S didnt agree that that the calculation had been undertaken correctly and questioned it 
in the following terms:The comparison between MJMPS6 and MJ6P was supposed to have been for six 
months from the switch date, but the latter seemed to be from 8 February 2018 to 27 
July 2018.
In the investigators view, hed said that the difference between the two portfolios 
would have been 22% in favour of her remaining in the MJ6P over the first six 
months alone. So shed been unable to reconcile this with Mercer asserting that she 
would have been better off by £8,876 through the move into the MJMPS6.
It didnt look as if Mercer had shown the growth calculation on the basis of her 
pension funds still being invested in the MJ6P  rather, it had simply added the 
contributions.
She further enquired as to why no calculation had been done for six months from 3 
March 2020 when her pension fund was disinvested into cash without her 
knowledge. This time period was appropriate as, due to the pandemic and the 
national lockdown, she was unable to source an alternative financial adviser to try to 
resolve the matter.
Miss S also said that the fees in the calculation were recorded as being 1.11%, 
whereas they should have been 0.2% from February 2018.
Th investigator said that, although this service wasnt able to check Mercers calculation, 
hed been able to check the inputs and these seemed aligned to what hed asked Mercer to 
do.
He also confirmed that, with regard to step one, hed asked Mercer to compare the 
performance of the MJMPS6 and the MJ6P for a period of three months, rather than six 
months.
He further said that hed asked Mercer to end the second part of the calculation on 31 March 
2020, as this was when Miss S became aware that much of her pension fund has been 
disinvested into cash. He appreciated what Miss S said about the effects of the pandemic, 
but said that financial advisers were still available, albeit remotely rather than in person.
The investigator concluded that, if Miss S wasnt happy with the outcome, it would now be 
best for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, but that if Miss S maintained that the 
calculation hadnt been undertaken properly, she was free to have it independently checked.
Miss S remained concerned about the outcome, saying that Mercer had used figures for a 
fund called MMPS rather than MJMPS6. Miss S requested the details for MJMPS6 so that 
she could employ the services of an actuary to check Mercers calculation.
Miss S also maintained that she wouldnt have been able to resolve the issue of her pension 
funds being held in cash immediately. She said the disinvestment happened on 3 March 
2020, but she didnt learn of this until 31 March 2020. 
And lastly, Miss S repeated her point about the fees shed been paying, saying that the 
calculation stated them as being 1.11%, but they were meant to be 0.2% from February 
2018.
Miss S said that once shed received the requested information, she would then arrange a 
calculation and then decide whether she wished to refer the matter to an ombudsman.
The investigator acknowledged this, and said that he would ask Mercer to provide the requested information. But he also said that his view on Miss Ss ability to reinvest her funds 
held in cash, and the timescale for that, remained the same and if Miss S still disagreed, it 
would be best for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
As to the matter of the fees charged, he said that the fees for the investment itself may have 
been 0.2%, but Miss S was also paying Mercer for its services.
Miss S agreed that the matter of when she would have been able to reinvest her funds held 
in cash should be referred to an ombudsman. And with regard to the fees, she referred the 
investigator to the file which she said clearly demonstrated that she was never paying a fee 
of 1.11% for Mercers services. It was 0.75%, reduced to 0.25%.
The investigator referred the points about a different portfolio being used in the calculation 
and the matter of the fees to Mercer.
In response to the first point, Mercer said that the name of the MJMPS was changed to 
MMPS (Mercer Model Portfolio Service) in 2020. The two terms were used interchangeably 
to refer to the same portfolio once the Jelf trading name was dissolved.
It said that the underlying assets within the portfolios werent affected by the change and it 
provided the asset allocation for MMPS6 (previously known as MJMPS6) as at 31 March 
2018.
The investigator conveyed this information to Miss S. As to the charges, he said hed 
reviewed the letters and the email which Miss S had provided. The email from Mercer said 
that the service fee would reduce from 0.75% to 0.25% but only if Miss S signed a new client 
agreement. As she didnt, the fee remained at the higher rate.
But he agreed that the letter from Mercer dated 6 March 2018 confirmed that the 
discretionary manager charge had reduced to 0.2%. This produced an overall charge of 
0.95% before VAT, and 1.11% once VAT had been applied.
He confirmed that hed begun the process of referring the matter to an ombudsman for 
review, and that he would keep Miss S updated on the complaints progress.
In response, Miss S requested the funds in which the MJ6P had been invested, as she only 
had those for MJMPS6.
As to the proposed reduction in the fees, she agreed that she hadnt signed anything, but 
that Mercer still did it and so as far as it was concerned, the fee reduced to 0.25%.
Miss S further said that 0.95% with the addition of VAT at 20% resulted in a fee of 1.14% 
rather than 1.11% - and so the figures still didnt make sense.
The investigator questioned Mercers assertion that the underlying funds had been the same 
between the two portfolios. Referring to a fund factsheet for the MJ6P from October 2017, he 
noted that the funds were quite different. He also said that the difference in performance 
between the two funds couldnt readily be explained if the two funds were identical.
The investigator also queried the matter of the fees further with Mercer. It provided a 
charges summary document from the platform provider. This set out the charge of 1.11%, 
which was made up of the fund charge of 0.78% and the platform charge of 0.33%. 
Mercer said that Miss S may be confusing the 0.2% charge it applied to anyone invested in 
the MMPS with the total charge on her investments.The investigator conveyed this information about the fees to Miss S, also saying that he was 
awaiting further information from Mercer about the funds within the portfolios.
The complaint was then referred to me for review. 
I noted that the information relating to the differences between the two portfolios was 
outstanding. But I didnt think this was now relevant, for reasons which I explained in a 
provisional decision on the complaint dated 24 January 2022.
In summary, I said in that provisional decision that the complaint should be upheld and that 
Mercer should undertake a loss calculation to determine whether Miss S had lost out 
financially by her pension funds being disinvested into cash. My detailed provisional findings 
are set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mercer has made no comment on the investigators findings relating to the merits 
of the complaint, other than to initially object to the proposed further payment of £500 to Miss 
S in respect of what he said was the poor quality of service provided to her.
Ive nevertheless looked at the matters afresh, but have reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator in terms of what has happened here, albeit with some slightly 
different conclusions. I think its not disputed that things have gone wrong, notably in terms 
of where Miss Ss contributions have been invested, but also the disinvestment into cash 
without her being aware that this was happening.
And I agree with the investigator that Mercer needed to take steps to put matters right. 
These are addressed below.
Initial switch from one managed portfolio to another 
The first of these steps was to establish whether Miss S suffered a loss when the portfolio 
switched from MJ6P to MJMPS6 and her contributions were invested in the former instead of 
the latter. It was in fact demonstrated that Miss Ss contributions performed better in the 
original fund than they would have done in the in house portfolio.
And this rightly gave Miss S pause for thought as to whether the switch from MJ6P to 
MJMPS6 for her pension funds had been in her best interests. And when she was asked as 
to what she would have done, had she been unambiguously aware of what was being 
proposed as part of the merger in February 2018, Miss S said that this would likely have 
prompted her to take the opportunity to look for an alternative adviser and investment 
management service.
Ive thought about this carefully, but have reached a slightly different conclusion to the 
investigator. To explain, Miss S was of course free to seek another adviser and investment 
management service at any time throughout her relationship with Mercer, and if this were to 
happen, it might reasonably be expected that this would be when shed realised that 
contributions hadnt been invested as they should have been, or when declining to sign new 
client agreements. But Miss S, for whatever reason, didnt look elsewhere.
And so I think it might be reasonable to assume that, had the merger and proposed transfer 
into a new portfolio, but with the same risk rating and strategic aims as the original, been 
properly communicated to Miss S, there would have been little that she would have found 
objectionable about this. And so I think its more likely than not that she would have accepted that proposal and her funds would in any case have transferred over to MJMPS6. 
There may have been a financial benefit in remaining in the MJ6P, but this is only known 
with the benefit of hindsight, and there are indications in the calculation undertaken by 
Mercer that the MJMPS6 may ultimately have performed better.
But notwithstanding this, I dont think I could reasonably conclude that the move to MJMPS6, 
given its description, was obviously contrary to Miss Ss best interests at the time, or that she 
wouldnt have accepted it as a reasonable proposition.
And as there was no loss through her misdirected contributions being invested in the MJ6P 
instead of the MJMPS6 for the short period they were invested in the former, I dont think 
that Mercer needs to take any additional action in that particular regard.
Termination of services
Turning then to the termination of services, my views on this are aligned with those of the 
investigator. Even if it could reasonably be concluded that Mercer had given Miss S sufficient 
notice of this, it nevertheless conveyed the impression that the majority of her investments 
would remain as they were. The reality, however, was that shed been largely disinvested 
into cash.
But Ive also thought about the date at which its been proposed the redress calculation in 
respect of this should be capped, i.e. the date at which Miss S became aware that her funds 
had been switched into cash. And I think Miss S has a point here. The investigator has 
rightly noted that it was possible to seek financial advice remotely, if not face to face, during 
the initial lockdown in 2020. 
But I dont think that Miss S would have been able  at least with immediate effect - to fully 
appreciate what had happened here, seek alternative financial advice, consider this, and 
then instruct whatever fund switches shed decided upon. The act of seeking, and then the 
provision, of alternative financial advice itself, done remotely as would likely have been 
necessary, with the probable fact finding and research undertaken by a new firm of advisers, 
would realistically have taken several weeks, if not longer, especially at a time when all 
businesses were adjusting to the new realities of the pandemic.
And so I think a more reasonable timeframe for calculating whether Miss S suffered financial 
loss by being disinvested into cash would be from the point at which Miss Ss investments 
were moved into cash until 30 May 2020. I think this would be a more realistic period of time 
in which Miss S could have arranged alternative investments.
But I think its quite possible that this will demonstrate no loss to Miss S. Financial markets 
declined significantly between February and March 2020, and so if her pension funds had 
been moved into cash just before this, this may well have worked in her favour, especially for 
the suggested period of calculating whether loss has been incurred.
Fees and charges
I can see that, following the investigators confirmation of the fees which were applicable, 
Miss S hasnt submitted further comment on that matter. And my understanding is that Miss 
S was being charged the 0.2% - which she believed to be the case - by Mercer for its 
ongoing service, and that the 1.11% was in respect of the separate fund and platform 
charges. 
But if Miss S wishes to make further submissions on that matter, she may do so in response to this provisional decision. 
Putting things right 
As Ive set out above, my current view is that the loss calculation should reflect the period of 
time during which Miss Ss funds were disinvested into cash  up to the point that she would 
reasonably have been able to put that situation right.
I think its also reasonable to assume that Miss Ss pension money ought to have remained 
in funds similar in nature to those from which they were disinvested. This is, after all, the 
impression Miss S had been given by Mercer. 
And so, rather than using one of our benchmark indices to determine whether loss was 
sustained through the disinvestment into cash, my current view is that Mercer should 
compare the notional position of Miss Ss pension funds had they remained invested as they 
were, as at 30 May 2020, with their actual position on the same date.
This should be a relatively straightforward calculation, but Mercer should nevertheless set 
out the results in a clear and understandable manner  rather than a simple spreadsheet - 
so that Miss S should be able to appreciate the comparison.
As Ive said above, I think its likely that this will determine a no loss position. But if there was 
a loss, that percentage loss should be applied to Miss Ss current pension funds, as at the 
date of any final decision along these lines, so that they are increased to the correct value. 
For example, if the pension funds had suffered a loss of 10%, and Miss Ss current pension 
funds were worth £90,000, that value should be increased by a factor of 1.11 to make them 
up to £100,000. 
That payment should ideally be made to Miss Ss pension policy to make it up to the correct 
amount, taking account of any annual allowance issues, available tax relief, charges, and 
protections which might be in place.
If payment into Miss Ss policy isnt possible, or there are protection issues or other reasons 
why this cannot be done, the payment should be made directly to Miss S, but with a notional 
deduction for the income tax which she would likely pay in retirement. Ive assumed that this 
would be 20%, and so also on the assumption that Miss S would take maximum tax free 
cash, the notional deduction from any payment directly to Miss S should be 15%.
Ive also noted whats been said by the investigator and Mercer about the proposed 
additional payment of £500 in respect of the overall level of service provided to Miss S.
I think it goes beyond that here. Mistakes have undoubtedly been made, but from my 
reading of the file I can also see - and understand  Miss Ss frustration with what has 
happened, and over a period of several years. It will, in my view, have caused Miss S no 
small amount of concern, and likely distress, when she learned that quite significant monthly 
contributions hadnt been correctly applied.
If Im to add to that the additional concern shell have had when she realised that her funds 
had been disinvested into cash in early 2020  notwithstanding any potential position of no 
actual financial loss  I think the additional payment of £500 is warranted here. I note that 
this has also been accepted by Mercer.
In response, Mercer requested that we ask Miss S for a letter of authority so that it could 
undertake the loss calculation.
Miss S made further submissions, as follows:The email of 14 February 2020 had been sent by Standard Life rather than Mercer. 
As Standard Life had never contacted her by email before, this was why it went into 
her spam folder.
Id said that Miss S had been free to move to another adviser at any point in her 
relationship with Mercer, and that if this were to happen it was likely that this would 
have been when she later realized that her contributions had been misdirected. And 
so there was no reason to assume that she would have done so when her funds 
were moved from MJ6P to MJMPS6 in February 2018. But Miss S said that the only 
reason she hadnt moved to another adviser when shed realized her contributions 
were being misdirected was that shed already made a complaint, and she was under 
the impression that she couldnt leave whilst the complaint was ongoing.
And so Miss S challenged my finding that, as she hadnt moved later when it was 
discovered that her contributions were being misdirected, it was reasonable to 
assume she wouldnt have objected to the proposed portfolio move, given that the 
new portfolio had the same strategic aims and risk rating. She queried where the 
evidence was for this conclusion, saying that having been moved before without 
notice and poor customer service, she definitely would have looked to move financial 
adviser at the time. 
With regard to my finding that the MJMPS6 may have subsequently outperformed the 
MJ6P, Miss S said that the comparison previously provided by Mercer had been 
proved to be false. This was also illustrated by the monthly contributions still going 
into the MJ6P increasing by 22%. Miss S said that she didnt authorize or know 
anything about Mercer moving her from one portfolio to another.
As to the issue of the fees, Miss S said that she hadnt commented further on this 
previously as shed been told that her case had been referred to an ombudsman to 
review. But she still disputed the rates and fees applied, as per the letters and emails 
from Mercer which showed them being lower from 2018.
Lastly, Miss S said that she didnt think that a timescale of two months in which to 
reinvest her funds which had been placed into cash was fair. She said that the UK 
was in lockdown from 23 March 2020, and no one knew that this would continue for 
five months, during which she couldnt engage with financial advisers. Then when 
she could, the ones she wanted to work with werent taking on new clients as they 
couldnt see them face to face, although finally she was able to engage with them 
over a video call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Miss S, but I havent been persuaded to change my 
conclusions on the matter.
Ive noted what Miss S has said as to why she hadnt picked up the email of 14 February 
2020, and Im grateful for her clarification on that.
With regard to Miss Ss next point, I acknowledge what shes said about being under the 
impression that she couldnt leave Mercer whilst a complaint was ongoing. But Im afraid Im 
not necessarily persuaded that it would be a natural or expected assumption that a 
consumer couldnt find an alternative adviser if they were dissatisfied with their current 
arrangement, or that they would somehow be tied to them until a complaint was resolved. 
But even if I was to accept this, I think if miss S had been keen to leave, it would have been 
relatively straightforward for her to have clarified this with it.
However, its additionally the case that this was also Miss Ss sentiment once it had been 
discovered that the contributions hadnt been properly invested in the new portfolio. There 
was nothing to suggest dissatisfaction with the prospect of being moved from one portfolio to 
another in February 2018. And this is my point  theres no reason to believe that Miss S 
would have objected to this move, and the evidence to support this is that the risk rating and 
strategy of the new portfolio was the same as the pre-existing one. I cant see why Miss S 
would have thought this to be unreasonable, or would have thought that this meant she 
needed to move to a new adviser. 
And further evidence that Miss S wouldnt have been prompted to change adviser by the 
change of portfolio was that shed already complained about the misdirected contributions in 
2015, and hadnt decided to change her adviser once that complaint was resolved. 
Miss S believed, after the fact, that she would have been better off by remaining where she 
was, on the basis of the growth on the contributions which were still directed to the old 
portfolio. But this isnt something which could have prompted her to object to the portfolio 
move in February 2018 as this wasnt yet known. And on the basis of the stated similarities 
between the portfolios, I remain of the view that this would more than likely not have been 
accepted by Miss S, rather than representing cause for concern.
Ive further noted Miss Ss point about the calculations provided by Mercer to date, and that 
theyd been incorrect. Miss S has referenced the higher growth in the old portfolio, but 
although that may have been the case for those months, other calculations run by Mercer 
suggest that the new portfolio may have performed better since. But either way, given my 
view, for the reasons set out above, that Miss S is more likely than not to have accepted the 
portfolio move, rather than deciding to change advisers, a further comparison of the two 
portfolios is unnecessary.
And this same principle applies to Miss Ss next point, that had her pension remained in the 
initial portfolio, it would have been subject to enhanced growth. Miss S said that she didnt 
know anything about the change in portfolio, nor had she authorised it.
Mercers position is different, in that this was discussed in the review meeting of October 
2017, and it was then reiterated in its mailing of 6 March 2018. But even if it could 
reasonably be argued that Miss S wasnt aware of the change of portfolio, I still think she 
would likely have accepted this, for the reasons set out above.Turning then to the matter of fees, Miss S has said that she still disputes this, and has 
referred to the lower fees she was told would be applied from 2018 onwards. The letter in 
which the discretionary fund management charge reduction from 0.25% to 0.2% to which I 
think Miss S has referred is the same letter which notified her about the change in portfolio 
management  that of 6 March 2018. And as set out in my provisional decision, my 
understanding is that this is the discretionary fund management charge which has applied 
since. The separate charge was levied in respect of the separate fund and platform charges.
But Ive nevertheless sought further clarification from Mercer on the issue of charges which 
have been levied and whether these were consistent with the information which was 
provided to Miss S. I asked Mercer to explain the fees, what they were in respect of and how 
theyve changed over time, along with the letters in which they were originally set out and 
explained to Miss S, and any amendments since.
Unfortunately, Mercer has simply told us that in relation to the adviser charges, this was 
comprised of a 0.75% fund charge and a 0.33% platform charge. It said that Miss S was 
offered a move to a different level of service which would have meant a reduction in fees 
from 0.75% to 0.25%, but Miss S didnt sign the agreement which would have facilitated this. 
Ill address the issue of fees levied further below.
Lastly, Miss S has said that the timescale of two months to reinvest her cash funds once she 
became aware that the previously held funds had been disinvested wasnt reasonable, given 
what shes said about the situation at the time. But I do think it ought to have been possible 
to have sought and received advice as to the right type of fund for Miss S. And failing that, I 
think she could have arranged for the funds to be moved into ones similar to those 
previously held, pending further formalised advice.
But I do also need to reiterate my point relating to the falls in financial markets from the end 
of February 2020, at which point the FTSE 100 didnt regain its previous value until around 
the end of 2020. And so, I dont think it really makes too much difference as to whether it is 
assumed that Miss S reinvested at the end of May 2020, or later in the same year. 
Putting things right
Mercer should undertake the calculation as set out in the provisional decision, and pay any 
resulting loss as directed in that decision. The application date of any percentage loss 
should be the date of this final decision.
If payment isnt made within 28 days of Mercer being notified of Miss Ss acceptance of this 
decision, then interest at the rate of 8% simple pa should be applied to any loss amount from 
the date of this decision to the date of payment.
Mercer should also pay Miss S £500 as set out in the provisional decision.
In terms of fees levied on Miss Ss pension funds, Mercer hasnt provided the information 
requested of it, which would have enabled me to determine whether the correct level of fees 
has been applied.
As such, Mercer should itself also determine the fees which have been applied from the 
outset of its relationship with Miss S and compare these with the agreed fees, or changes in 
fees about which Miss S has been notified over the years, to ensure that the correct level of 
charging has occurred. 
If the fees levied have exceeded any level agreed by Miss S, or about which she was 
notified, then these should ideally be repaid to Miss Ss pension plan, or to Miss S directly with a notional deduction for income tax in the same way as for the loss calculation above. 
Mercer may either choose to reconstruct the value of those fees in Miss Ss current plan by 
reference to what they would now be worth had they not been removed. Or for ease, it may 
simply add 8% simple interest pa to them, from the date that they were incorrectly levied up 
to the date of settlement.
And it should explain the outcome of this exercise to Miss S in a clear and understandable 
format.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Mercer Limited, trading as Mercer 
Jelf Financial Planning, to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman