DRN-3283780
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) didnt change her name correctly 
following her getting married.
What happened
Mrs A visited a BOS branch to change the name on her accounts to her married name, 
having recently got married, and took a copy of her marriage certificate with her. Following 
this, Mrs A received correspondence from BOS addressed to the wrong name. Mrs A wasnt 
happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
BOS looked at Mrs As complaint. They acknowledged that an error had been made and 
apologised for Mrs A for this and offered to make a payment of £30 to Mrs A to compensate 
her for any upset and inconvenience caused. However, the letter that BOS sent to Mrs A 
detailing the upholding of her complaint was also addressed to Mrs As wrong name.
Mrs A wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They recommended that BOS should 
increase the amount of compensation it was offering to Mrs A by £50, to a total of £80.
BOS agreed to the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, but Mrs A remained 
dissatisfied. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOS dont dispute that they made an error by not correctly updating all their systems with 
Mrs As new married name in the first instance, or that this error was compounded by 
sending their complaint response to Mrs A, acknowledging and apologising for this mistake, 
addressed to the same incorrect name that Mrs A was complaining about.
As a result, BOS have agreed to pay Mrs A the higher amount of compensation totalling £80 
as recommended by our investigator. Having considered the circumstances of this 
complaint, I feel that this amount of £80 compensation payable to Mrs A does represent a 
fair and reasonable resolution to what has taken place here. Id also like to confirm to Mrs A 
that its comparable to the amount of compensation I would have instructed BOS to pay, had 
they not already agreed to do so.
Im aware that Mrs A would like to know why the error regarding her requested name change 
occurred. I can appreciate Mrs As position here, but its not always possible to provide a 
specific explanation as to exactly why or how an error has been made, especially when the 
mistake is the result of human error, as it seems likely is the case here.
BOS have been able to demonstrate that their systems have now all been updated correctly 
with Mrs A married name, and BOS have also apologised to Mrs A for the error and agreed 
to pay her £80 compensation for it, as explained above.
This seems reasonable to me, and Im satisfied that it does provide a fair and reasonable 
resolution to Mrs As complaint. And I dont feel that the circumstances here warrant any 
further instruction to BOS beyond this.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mrs A was wanting, but it follows that Ill be upholding 
this complaint in her favour on this basis and instructing BOS to make the payment of £80 to 
her, if they havent already done so. I hope that Mrs A will understand, given what Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
BOS must make a compensation payment of £80 to Mrs A, if they havent already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman