DRN-1288153
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) incorrectly recorded on his 
credit file that he had missed a mortgage payment and this caused him to be rejected for 
another mortgage.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr K applied for a new mortgage with a provider I will call M. His application 
was declined ad he discovered that NatWest had reported that he had missed his August 
2018 mortgage payment. This was wrong. Mr K complained to NatWest and it asked for 
evidence that the error had been the cause of his mortgage rejection. It also offered him 
£100.
Mr K contacted M, but it didnt have details of his application. Mr K brought his complaint to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. Mr K sent in a copy of his credit file which showed he had a good rating.
Our investigator asked M if it could trace any information about its refusal to grant a 
mortgage, but it was unable to find anything. She also established that Mr K had applied to 
NatWest for sizable personal loans in March and October 2018, but both of these had been 
declined due to affordability concerns. Mr K had told this service that he had incurred losses 
with having to pay higher interest rates on unsecured borrowing and the mortgage would 
have allowed him to borrow at a lower rate.
Our investigator said that she couldnt be certain that the erroneous late payment marker 
had been the cause of the refusal by M and so she couldnt ask NatWest to compensate Mr 
K for his additional costs. Mr K didnt agree and said the evidence was overwhelming and he 
deserved greater suffering for the trouble and upset he had been caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the frustration Mr K has suffered, but I dont consider I can uphold his 
complaint. I will explain why.
In short, I dont consider the evidence is overwhelming. A lender such as M will take into 
account any number of factors when deciding to lend money and Mr K hasnt been able to 
establish that the sole or even the main cause of Ms decision was late payment marker on 
his credit file.
Mr K sent us an extract from the internet which says that if an applicant has a record of 
missed payments this will mark than as a higher risk. The more such flags may result in an 
application being declined. This does not say that one missed payment will cause an 
application to be refused. It seems Mr K had significant unsecured borrowings and he had twice been refused loans on affordability grounds. Although we cannot say for certain what 
caused M to reach its decision, I suspect that affordability may have played a part.
As such I cannot safely conclude that NatWests error was the cause of the mortgage 
refusal. It follows that the trouble the refusal caused Mr K cannot be held to be due to the 
actions of NatWest and so it would not be right to ask it to compensate him for the losses he 
has claimed. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman