DRN-2843362
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car acquired with finance from FirstRand Bank Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr F was supplied with a car and entered int a hire purchase agreement with 
FR.
Mr F experienced issues with the car including a squeaking noise from the brakes, engine 
failure warning light, no coolant, a thermostat leak and a shock absorber leak.
The supplying dealer carried out repairs to the brakes, thermostat and coolant as well as 
resolving the engine waring light. It arranged for repairs to the shock absorber. 
Mr F complained to FR. It upheld the complaint on the basis that Mr F had experienced 
faults with the car. It apologised for the inconvenience caused and paid compensation of 
£50.
Mr F contacted FR again in November 2020 to advise that there was noise from the 
suspension, which he said had been diagnosed as a broken post above the shock 
absorber.FR re-opened the complaint.
Mr F says the supplying dealer initially agreed to repair the car again. But when the 
supplying dealer inspected it, it couldnt find a fault.
FR arranged for an independent inspection in December 2020. The inspector identified the 
noise from the suspension but found no faults.
In January 2021 Mr F contacted FR again to report an issue with the anti-roll bar. FR 
arranged a further independent inspection. The inspector concluded that the creaking noise 
was due to worn anti roll bar bushes which he said were due to a point of supply fault or 
failed previous repairs.
The supplying dealer disputed the findings of the second inspection. It said the inspection 
contradicted the first inspection, where the inspector had said concluded that the noise was 
commensurate with the age and mileage of the car.
FR asked ACE to review both inspections and clarify. ACE replied and said the inspector 
who carried out the second inspection had now taken the mileage of the car into 
consideration and thought it was likely to be a wear and tear issue, rather than a point of 
supply fault or a failed repair.
FR rejected Mr Fs complaint. Mr F remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said it wasnt in dispute that a fault had been 
diagnosed when the car was inspected in January 2021. He said that although ACE had 
clarified its findings, this didnt detract from the fact that a fault had been found. The 
investigator said that because two faults had been found with the car within the first 6 
months, and because there had already been an attempt at repair, Mr F should be allowed 
to reject the car.
FR didnt agree. It said that if the fault with the suspension as diagnosed in January 2021 
had been present at the point of supply, it wouldve been experienced within the first 500-
1000 miles. It pointed out that at the time the fault was diagnosed, the car had covered 4,437 
miles since the point of sale. FR said it didnt dispute that there was a fault with the 
suspension but said that because the fault had occurred after the car had covered over 4000 
miles since the point of sale, the fault was likely to be due to wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because FR supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term that 
it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account the age and mileage of 
the car and the price paid.
I would expect a second-hand car to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repair 
more often than a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that there was an inherent fault, as opposed to a fault caused by wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection reports. Its not disputed that theres a fault with the suspension. 
The January 2021 inspection found an excessive creaking noise which the inspector said 
was excessive wear ad pressing to the anti-roll bar bushes. Initially the inspector said that in 
his opinion, the fault had been ongoing since the point of sale and had been the subject of 
previous failed repairs. The inspector noted in his report that the car had covered 5,816 
miles since the point of supply. 
The inspection carried out in December 2020 concluded that there was a noise coming from 
the suspension but that this was commensurate with the age and mileage of the car. 
Because the second inspection reached a different conclusion to the first, the second 
inspector was asked to clarify his comments. When he did so, he referred to the mileage 
covered by the car since the point of sale and said it was likely that, taking the mileage into 
consideration, deterioration had occurred in the anti-roll bar bushes, and that he no longer 
thought this was a point of sale fault.
Ive got concerns about the clarification, not least because its clear from the inspection 
report that the inspector was already aware of the mileage covered by the car since the pint 
of sale when he concluded that the fault was a point of sale fault or due to a failed repair. He 
specifically refers to the mileage in his report. So, I dont understand why his conclusions 
have changed based on a fact which he was already aware of and took into account when 
he reached his first conclusion. The inspector refers to some further deterioration in the roll 
bar bushes, which tends to suggest that there was already some deterioration present which 
has become more evidence as the car has covered more mileage.
Ultimately, the issue here is whether there was a fault with the anti-roll bar bushes present or 
developing at the point of supply, or whether the fault was caused by wear and tear.
Because the fault with the roll bar bushes occurred in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of sale unless the business can show otherwise. The business relies on the clarification s and the first inspection to show 
otherwise. Whilst I acknowledge that the clarifications suggest that the fault was due to wear 
and tear, Ive explained above why I dont find these clarifications to be reliable. On balance, 
Im not persuaded that the clarifications are sufficient to rebut the presumption that the fault 
was present or developing at the point of sale.
Putting things right
Because Im not persuaded by the inspectors clarifications, I can safely conclude that the 
fault was a point of sale fault, which wasnt remedied by the repair attempt. Under the 
relevant legislation, a business is allowed one opportunity to repair a fault with a car which 
isnt of satisfactory quality. The supplying dealer has already had an attempt at repair so Mr 
F should now be allowed to reject the car. 
Im aware that Mr F has covered around 5,800 miles in the car since the point of sale, which 
is fair use, so I wont be asking FR to refund any monthly payments.
Its clear that Mr F has been caused a significant degree of distress and inconvenience by 
the fault with the car. Hes also had to make the car available for two inspections. I think its 
fair to ask FR to pay further compensation to recognise this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. FirstRand Bank Limited must:
Allow Mr F to reject the car
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr F
Refund the deposit and the value of the car which Mr F part exchanged plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund the cost of repairs paid for by Mr F (if this hasnt already been refunded) plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay further compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman