The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made his account dormant which meant he 
couldn't access his money.
What happened
Mr K says Barclays made his account dormant in October 2019 which meant he couldn't 
access his money urgently for business use. He says he had transferred some of his money 
but the account became dormant during these transfers. And he was unable to prove the 
account existed, and spent a significant amount of time trying to sort matters out. Mr K says 
he incurred legal costs of £300 and made a number of visits to branch and would like at least 
£500 compensation for what's taken place.
Barclays says it wrote to Mr K in July 2019 to tell him the account was being made dormant. 
It says the account was made dormant on 16 October 2019 which was at the same time Mr 
K made two transfers out of the account. It also says its systems didn't recognise the 
account activity as it was after the date the account was due to be made dormant. Barclays 
accepts it gave Mr K misleading information and has offered £200 compensation for that and 
for how he was treated in branch. But it says it didn't make a mistake in making the account 
dormant, and in any event Mr K had access to his money after about 16 days which is less 
than the usual 12 weeks in these sorts of cases.
Mr K had already brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Barclays offer of 
£200 compensation fair and reasonable. The investigator thought the account terms and 
conditions allowed Barclays to make an account dormant in these circumstances and that it 
gave Mr K appropriate notice. The investigator thought Barclays has sorted matters out 
within a reasonable time period and didn't think Mr K had provided any evidence of the £300 
legal fees he said he had paid.
Mr K doesn't accept that view and in summary says he didn't receive the dormancy letter 
and questions if it was sent. He says there was a cost to his business and says the 
compensation offer is arbitrary and doesn't take account of the hours he spent on the phone 
and in visiting his local branch. Mr K says he will accept £300 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Mr K will be disappointed 
by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about what's happened.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr K would have agreed to 
DRN-1773360when the account was opened. I can see that Barclays makes clear it may make an account 
dormant in certain circumstances and will give notice of that decision. I'm satisfied Barclays 
wrote to Mr K in July 2019 to tell him the account was being made dormant. So I don't think 
Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly by making the account dormant in October 2019. 
And I have no reason to think Barclays produced that letter but didn't send it to Mr K as he 
suggests. I think on balance that letter was sent and that Barclays is not responsible for the 
delivery of mail. I also think Mr K ought to have reasonably realised that his account may 
have been dormant in these circumstances.
I accept that what took place is unusual as the dormancy process appears to have started at 
the same time Mr K used the account again. I appreciate what Mr K says that Barclays 
systems ought to have recognised the use and cancelled the dormancy process. But I can't 
fairly tell Barclays how it runs its business or how its systems operate on these issues. And I 
think it likely that the dormancy process could not have stopped as Mr K hadn't used the 
account by the designated date. In those circumstances I don't think Barclays made a 
mistake or acted unfairly. And I think in any event it acted within some 16 days to allow Mr 
K access his money which is less than the usual 12-week period.
There is no question that Barclays didn't deal with Mr K's complaint as it should. He was 
given incorrect information and Barclays accepts he was treated inappropriately. But I'm 
satisfied that Barclays has made a fair and reasonable offer of £200 compensation. I don't 
think Mr K suffered any financial loss as a result of how he and his complaint was treated 
and I don't think Barclays actions had a significant impact on him.
I make clear to Mr K that I don't uphold the main part of his complaint and for the reasons I 
have explained I'm satisfied Barclays was entitled to make the account dormant. For those 
reasons I can't fairly order Barclays to pay compensation for that part of the complaint or for 
any legal costs. I don't think in any event Mr K has provided any evidence of those costs or 
any evidence of financial loss.
Overall I don't uphold the main part of Mr K's complaint and will leave it to him to decide if he 
wishes to accept Barclays compensation offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the main part of Mr K's complaint and that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of £200 compensation. Mr K's 
acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman