DRN-2136782
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Vanwise Group Ltd (Vanwise) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out credit buy a vehicle.
What happened
In April 2005 Mr S bought a vehicle on hire purchase (HP) from Vanwise and at the same 
time he took out a PPI policy to protect his repayments. 
When Mr S complained to Vanwise that the policy was mis-sold it didnt agree. 
Mr S wasnt happy with what Vanwise had said and brought his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020, setting out the reasons why I 
didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold.
Vanwise has provided no further comment or information.
Mr S has responded providing some information about his recollections of the sales meeting 
when he purchased the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S has raised an issue in his response to my provisional decision about an additional 
payment he had to make. This seems to be totally unconnected to the PPI and whether it 
was mis-sold, so not something I have considered or will address in this decision. If Mr S has 
any concerns about any other issues he would need to take them up separately. In this 
decision I am only considering if the PPI taken out with the HP agreement was mis-sold.
Mr S told us he was unaware he had taken out PPI which was included on the HP 
agreement for his loan. He says there was no discussion about the PPI and the HP form was 
infilled before he signed it and it was only later, he realised he had the PPI.
In response to my provisional decision Mr S has also said the vehicle purchase was a spur 
of the moment decision and the form was completed in his absence at Vanwise premises, as 
he had to obtain some records from home. On his return to the Vanwise premises he says 
he just signed the form without reading it.
Vanwise has provided a copy of the credit agreement form Mr S signed. As I indicated in my 
provisional decision there was information on the application form that would have required 
Mr Ss input. His personal information and all the information about how much he was 
borrowing, the term of the loan, the repayment amounts etc. Whilst I note Mr S says he was 
not on the premises when the form was completed, he must have had some discussion, and 
information would have been recorded, to enable all the correct information to be put onto 
the form for Mr S to read and sign. 
Mr S was taking out a loan of several thousand pounds and to ensure he could repay what 
he was committing to he was required to sign the application form. Where he put his 
signature, it states clearly that he should only sign if he wanted to be bound by the terms of 
the agreement. Therefore, he was signing to say he agreed to what was contained on the 
form  and that included purchase of the PPI policy and the repayment of the cost which was 
set out on the form. 
I would also add that as the Gold level of cover for self-employed was selected there would 
most likely have been some discussion about his employment status and the cover that was 
on offer. Where the level of cover has been selected, next to the box it states if no cover is 
required then the box should say None. 
Whilst I have taken account of what Mr S has said about when he bought the PPI, I think at 
the time, he did sign the application form to confirm he agreed to be bound by what was in it 
and he should have been aware he was taking out the PPI cover. The box relating to the PPI 
indicated a level of cover had been selected, and the costs were set out in full on the form, 
so I think the way this was entered and presented, before he signed the form, Mr S should 
have known he had a choice. 
Four types of policy were available, with a Gold policy specifically for the self-employed. The 
insurer has confirmed that Mr S was covered by the Gold cover for self-employed. This 
meant that there were no restrictions in the policy making it difficult or restricting claims for 
those who were self-employed, which included Mr S. 
As Mr S had the type of policy to cover those who were self-employed, he had the full 
benefits of the policy available to him if he had needed to claim. I cannot see from what Mr S 
has told us he was affected by any of the other restrictions of the policy, such as having a 
pre-existing medical condition. So the policy he bought was suitable for his circumstances. 
It is quite possible that full information was not provided by Vanwise at the time the policy 
was sold. Mr S may not have been told or understood all of the restrictions in the terms and 
conditions that applied to the PPI. And its possible the information he was given wasnt as 
clear as it could have been. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr S would have been affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits of the PPI policy he took out. As he wasnt caught by any restrictions 
of the policy, I dont think clearer or better information about these when the PPI was taken 
out, would have put him off taking out the cover at the time. And as Ive said I think it should 
have been clear to him he had a choice about taking about the policy, and he agreed to take 
it.
The cost of the policy was reasonable when looking at the benefits offered if a claim was 
made. And I have seen nothing to show the cost was not affordable.
Mr S would have received documents and an insurance schedule in the post after the 
purchase from the insurer. And if he didnt want the PPI, or didnt know about it, he could at 
that time have questioned it and cancelled it. There would have been a period in which he 
could cancel without any cost.It follows, that I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Im not upholding this complaint.
The issue of compensation for the commission and profit share that would have been part of 
the PPI premiums has already been addressed and settled in a separate complaint with the 
insurer, therefore Vanwise has no liability for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am not upholding this complaint that the PPI was mis-
sold by Vanwise Group Ltd to Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman