DRN-4466680
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited gave him notice that it would no longer cover 
symptoms he wanted investigated and managed under his private medical insurance policy 
(the policy) as they had become chronic.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and reasonably. And it 
mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
The policy says it only covers treatment of acute conditions meaning: a disease, illness or 
injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to return you to the state of 
health you were in immediately before suffering from it, or which leads to your full recovery.
The policy doesnt cover chronic conditions. 
A chronic condition is defined as:
 A disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
It requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
It continues indefinitely
It has no known cure
It comes back or is likely to come back 
Im not a medical expert. So, when considering whether Aviva fairly concluded at the end of 
2022/beginning of 2023 that it would no longer cover the cost of the investigations into  and 
management of - the symptoms Mr Z was experiencing because they related to a chronic 
condition, Ive taken into account the medical evidence available to me. 
For reasons set out below, I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably here. Im satisfied 
Aviva fairly concluded that Mr Z had a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the 
listed characteristics set out in the definition of chronic condition.
From reviewing the medical information, Im satisfied that Mr Z had a historical 
diagnosis of fibromyalgia and back issues, which pre-dated the start of the policy. 
Hed also had a number of pain clinic referrals to manage his pain.
Whilst I accept that Mr Z didnt have a firm diagnosis to explain his symptoms, hed 
had symptoms for many years and Aviva had covered costs to investigate the more 
recent symptoms he was experiencing for over 18 months. 
Shortly after the policy started in March 2021, Mr Z made a claim on the policy in 
relation to pain he was experiencing including in his right thoracic region, right arm 
and ribs. And a vibration sensation affecting the front of his abdominal area. Those 
symptoms continued and were investigated over many months. 
The Consultant Rheumatologists letter dated August 2021 refers to some of these 
symptoms and reported that chest and cardiovascular examinations were normal. An 
abdominal examination was unremarkable. They concluded that Mr Zs problems are 
related to costochondritis and generalised MSK conditioning. And he needs to lose 
weight to improve matters.
A chest x-ray was subsequently arranged, and the results were said to be within 
normal limits. Blood tests were reassuringly normal including inflammatory markers 
but vitamin D was low. A follow up letter from the Consultant Rheumatologist also 
dated August 2022 reflects that Mr Zs symptoms are secondary to deconditioning 
and costochondritis. Physiotherapy and weight reduction was advised. 
A Consultant Physicians report dated September 2022  so around a year later - 
reflects that Mr Z had been extensively investigated by orthopaedic surgeons, 
neurologists and cardiologists for his ongoing pains. And a recent abdominal 
ultrasound was normal and lung function tests didnt reveal any suggestion of 
obstructive or small airway disease. Its reflected that Mr Z was unable to take a 
deep breath due to fibromyalgia and costochondritis. The letter concludes that the 
Consultant Physician advised Mr Z to do regular exercises to increase his exercise 
tolerance, and to try reduce his weight. 
The Consultant Gastroenterologists report dated September 2022 reflects that the 
results of a CT scan on his abdomen ruled out any sinister lesions which might 
explain his symptoms. And symptoms were more likely to be related to 
musculoskeletal problems such as costochondritis or muscle spasms.
And the follow up consultation in November 2022 reflects that a gastroscopy 
revealed no malignant lesions, but evidence of inflammation caused by acid in the 
stomach. And that this would be resolved with a combination of antacids, diet and 
lifestyle changes. The inflammation is unlikely to cause the vibration sense and is 
more likely due to musculoskeletal causes such as costochondritis or fibromyalgia. 
They recommended Mr Z to consider treatment recommended by the specialist pain 
team to see if his symptoms could be controlled. If symptoms are due to a functional 
cause, then the goal would be symptom control rather than cure.
Im also satisfied that Mr Z was given around two months notice of the decision and that it 
would come into effect on the date of the next policy renewal in March 2023. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman