DRN-3657783
The complaint
Ms M complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Deep Blue Financial Limited 
(Deep Blue) to switch the value of her personal pension plans to a new self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). She says that the switch was unsuitable because it led to higher 
charges and investment in two Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS) funds 
which exposed her money to more risk than she understood or was able to tolerate.
Deep Blue is represented in this complaint by a law firm (the Representative).
What happened
Jurisdiction
The Representative previously stated that Ms M had complained too late. One of our 
ombudsmen considered the Representatives position but disagreed. On 4 July 2022, he 
issued his decision confirming his opinion this complaint had been made in time and that this 
service was therefore able to consider the merits.
Merits
On 27 July 2022, one of our investigators issued his assessment on the merits of this 
complaint. I dont intend to repeat here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a 
summary about the events that led to Ms M making this complaint.
In 2008, Ms M approached Deep Blue for advice on her retirement planning. At that time, 
she had two personal pension plans with Scottish Equitable and Prudential, the combined 
value of which was about £78,500. Those plans were invested in with-profits and equity 
tracker lifestyle funds. She was 46, divorced, in good health and had two financially 
dependent children aged 13 and 19. She worked in sales earning between £40,000 to 
£49,000 per year. She had limited knowledge and experience of investments. Deep Blue 
went on to provide three written recommendations to Ms M, summarised as follows:
February 2008  to switch the value of her two personal pension plans to a new SIPP 
and invest its value in a range of funds including 24% in a UCIS fund called the 
Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund (No 5). The switch to the SIPP was 
completed. The money earmarked for the UCIS fund was held in the cash account 
within the SIPP wrapper awaiting investment. But investment in that specific UCIS 
fund didnt go ahead due to the investment deadline being missed. The SIPP 
provider later confirmed that it would accept investment in an alternative UCIS fund, 
the Stirling Mortimer Land Fund (No 8);
July 2009  to invest £20,000 of the SIPP value, which had been held in cash, in the 
alternative UCIS fund, the Stirling Mortimer Land Fund (No 8). The investment term 
was stated as seven years and one month. Deep Blue recorded that Ms M had a 
realistic to aggressive risk profile in connection with the investment; and
May 2011  to disinvest £25,000 of other holdings in the SIPP and invest the 
proceeds into another UCIS fund, the Sycamore V Exempt Property Unit Trust. The 
investment term was stated as seven years plus a two-year disposal period. Deep 
Blue recorded that Ms M had a speculative risk profile in connection with the 
investment.
Due to liquidity issues, investment in the UCIS funds went beyond the stated terms. This 
meant that the total capital of £45,000 invested in those funds wasnt returned to Ms M, as 
she had expected.
This complaint
Ms M complained to Deep Blue about the suitability of its advice to invest in the Stirling 
Mortimer Land Fund (No 8) and Sycamore V Exempt Property Unit Trust UCIS funds. She 
stated, in summary, the following:
Deep Blue incorrectly recorded that she wanted to retire sometime between 65 and 
75. But she was unsure when she would retire;
Deep Blue inappropriately advised her to invest a large proportion of her pension 
savings in two high-risk UCIS funds which have since become illiquid. As a result, 
shes currently unable to retire because she cannot access most of her pension 
savings;
Deep Blue failed to make her adequately aware that investment in the UCIS funds 
could go beyond the stated investment terms or that the capital invested might not be 
returned;
She had limited other savings or investments and very little knowledge or 
understanding of investments. So she was heavily reliant on Deep Blue to act in her 
best interests and provide expert advice, which it had failed to do;
She wasnt a sophisticated or high net worth investor and so shouldnt have been 
advised by Deep Blue to invest in the two UCIS funds;
While she was interested in investing in property, she didnt have any specific 
investments or funds in mind when she first met Deep Blue. She said that it was 
Deep Blue that introduced and recommended investment in the two UCIS funds; and
Deep Blue failed to make her aware of the costs and charges associated with 
investment in the SIPP and two UCIS funds. She has since found out that Deep Blue 
had been paid between 5% and 8% initial commission for recommending the UCIS 
funds, plus 2% trail commission. In her opinion, the level of commission paid was the 
reason why Deep Blue recommended the UCIS funds instead of mainstream 
investment funds which paid less commission.
Deep Blue didnt uphold this complaint. It stated, in summary, the following:
It didnt introduce the UCIS funds (Stirling Mortimer Land Fund (No 8) and 
Sycamore V Exempt Property Unit Trust) to Ms M. Rather, it was Ms M that had first 
suggested investment in these specific UCIS funds because she wanted to invest in 
property. It said its role in the transactions was simply to facilitate investment in the 
UCIS funds in line with Ms Ms objective;
Given the nature of the UCIS funds, it undertook additional steps to ensure that Ms M understood the risks involved;
All the documentation provided to Ms M confirmed the unregulated status, 
investment timelines, illiquid nature, and access restrictions of both UCIS funds, 
which could impact her ability to withdraw benefits from the SIPP. She had therefore 
been placed into an informed position before making the decision to invest;
She signed all the relevant disclaimers confirming that she understood and accepted 
the risks involved in investing in the UCIS funds. She then went on and made a 
positive decision to invest;
The investment time horizon for the UCIS funds was about nine years allowing for an 
orderly disposal. This timeframe was appropriate for Ms M because she had an 
investment time horizon of at least 18 years to 65;
She had been invested in the UCIS funds for over 11 years before she complained 
and so it thought she wouldve complained sooner had she not understood and 
accepted the risks at the outset; and 
It was satisfied that it had acted in Ms Ms best interests and provided her with the 
correct level of service.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. In his assessment he 
stated, in summary, that:
Deep Blue had advised Ms M to start the SIPP and invest in the UCIS funds, and 
was therefore responsible for the suitability of these; 
Deep Blue had advised Ms M to start a new SIPP specifically to facilitate investment 
in the UCIS funds;
Following the 2011 recommendation, around 77% of Ms Ms SIPP was invested in 
high-risk investments  he considered that Ms Ms SIPP was unduly weighted in 
high-risk investments, lacked diversification and exposed a large proportion of her 
pension savings to more risk than she understood or was able to tolerate; and
Deep Blue shouldve instead advised Ms M to maintain her Scottish Equitable and 
Prudential personal pension plans because these had lower charges compared to 
the SIPP and UCIS funds and offered a range of suitable, lower-risk investment 
funds that met her needs.  
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Deep Blue calculate and pay 
compensation to Ms M on the basis that she maintained her Scottish Equitable and 
Prudential personal pension plans. He also recommended that Deep Blue pay Ms M £250 to 
compensate her for the trouble and upset caused by discovering that a large proportion of 
her pension savings were inaccessible because of its unsuitable advice.
While Ms M accepted our investigators recommendations, the Representative didnt. In its 
response, on behalf of Deep Blue, it expressed its view that this complaint shouldnt be 
upheld on its merits and explained why. It acknowledged that the UCIS funds complained 
about were high-risk and speculative but, in its opinion, they aligned with Ms Ms recorded 
risk profiles in 2009 and 2011. It said it was Ms M who had first suggested to Deep Blue that 
she should invest in the UCIS funds. And that she was fully aware of and accepted the risks. 
Therefore, it considered that Deep Blues advice to invest in the UCIS funds was suitable in meeting Ms Ms needs. Notwithstanding its view on the merits, the Representative stated 
that Deep Blue was prepared to make a cash sum offer of £45,000 to Ms M to settle this 
complaint in full and final settlement without admission of liability. The figure of £45,000 
represented the total capital sum Ms M had invested in the two UCIS funds.
Ms M didnt accept Deep Blues offer. She said that she wanted to be put into the financial 
position she wouldve been in had Deep Blue provided suitable advice at the outset in 2008.
Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Ms M, Deep Blue or the Representative. If I havent commented on any 
specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive 
considered all the evidence afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as 
our investigator for the following reasons:
The Representative said that it was Ms M and not Deep Blue who first suggested 
investment in UCIS. And that Deep Blues role in the transactions was simply to 
facilitate investment in the UCIS funds in line with Ms Ms objective. Ms M disputes 
this and said that Deep Blue promoted the UCIS funds to her. I cannot be certain 
which party first mentioned investment in UCIS. But I dont think it matters. This is 
because Deep Blue had a fundamental regulatory responsibility, under COBS 
2.1.1R, to act in Ms Ms best interests. Based on the evidence available, its my view 
that Ms M had limited knowledge and experience of investments. So I dont think she 
was qualified to form an expert view on the merits or otherwise of transferring to a 
SIPP and investing in the UCIS funds at the centre of this complaint. This shouldve 
been obvious to Deep Blue. She had appointed and was relying on Deep Blue to 
provide expert, independent advice and to act in her best interests. Deep Blue was 
the professional party in the transaction and so was required to provide a suitable 
recommendation to Ms M, regardless of how the concept of UCIS investments first 
arose.
Before 1 January 2014, UCIS were only allowed to be promoted to eight categories 
of investor set out in COBS 4.12. In addition, the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (Promotion of Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001 set 
out other exemptions that werent specifically set out in COBS, but they still applied. 
These included Certified high net worth individuals, Certified sophisticated 
investors and Self-certified sophisticated investors. I havent seen any 
contemporaneous evidence that shows which exemption in COBS 4.12 Deep Blue 
relied upon to promote the Stirling Mortimer Land Fund (No 8) and Sycamore V 
Exempt Property Unit Trust funds to Ms M or that it correctly categorised her as a 
high net worth individual or sophisticated investor in connection with the investments. 
Therefore, its my view that the UCIS funds complained about shouldnt have been 
promoted to Ms M.Because of the lack of regulation and the type of assets they invest in, UCIS can be 
complex and high risk. The regulator has generally regarded UCIS as having a high 
degree of volatility, illiquidity or both. They are therefore usually speculative 
investments and, in practice, rarely regarded as suitable for more than a small part of 
an investment portfolio.
In Ms Ms case, Deep Blue recommended in 2009 that she invest £20,000 (or about 
24%) of the then SIPP value in the Stirling Mortimer Land Fund (No 8) UCIS fund. 
Then in 2011 it recommended that she invest a further £25,000 (or about 35%) of the 
then SIPP value in the Sycamore V Exempt Property Unit Trust. Therefore, I think 
its fair to say that a large proportion of Ms Ms SIPP was invested in UCIS funds 
from 2009, which increased significantly in 2011.
 
Its my view that investment in the UCIS funds unduly exposed a significant 
proportion of Ms Ms pension savings to a high level of capital risk  a level of risk 
which, based on the available evidence, I dont think she understood or had the 
capacity to tolerate. I note that before she was advised by Deep Blue, Ms Ms 
existing personal pension plans were invested in lower risk investment funds. Im not 
persuaded that she was a speculative investor, as recorded by Deep Blue. The 
evidence relating to her investment knowledge and experience simply doesnt 
support this or convince me that it was appropriate for her to adopt a speculative, 
high-risk investment approach with a significant proportion of her pension savings. 
Therefore, I think Deep Blues advice in 2009 and 2011 to invest in the two UCIS 
funds was unsuitable in the circumstances.
Notwithstanding the above, I also have concerns about the suitability of Deep Blues 
advice in 2008 to switch the value of Ms Ms Scottish Equitable and Prudential 
personal pension plans to a new SIPP. The recommendation for the SIPP was 
required to facilitate investment in UCIS. In its 2008 suitability report, Deep Blue 
stated that it didnt carry out any cost or fund comparison between the personal 
pension plans and SIPP.  Therefore, I think its fair to say that Ms M wasnt provided 
adequate comparative information to understand if switching was in her best 
interests. The switch to the SIPP and subsequent investment in the UCIS funds led 
to Ms M incurring higher costs and charges compared to her personal pension plans. 
I think that Deep Blue failed to adequately demonstrate that Ms M incurred those 
higher costs and charges with good reason. 
I think Ms Ms retirement planning objectives couldve been met through her existing 
personal pension plans. Im not persuaded that switching to the SIPP and 
subsequent investment in the UCIS funds was suitable for her. So I think its fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint and direct Deep Blue to carry a loss assessment 
and pay any redress due to Ms M.
Putting things right
Deep Blue must pay Ms M £250 to compensate her for the trouble and upset caused by 
discovering that a large proportion of her pension savings are inaccessible because of its 
unsuitable advice.
In addition, Deep Blue must carry out a loss assessment to determine if its unsuitable advice 
led to Ms M suffering a financial loss. My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Ms M 
into the position she would likely have been in but for Deep Blues unsuitable advice. In 
summary, and for the purposes of assessing redress, I think Deep Blue shouldve advised Ms M in 2008 to maintain her Scottish Equitable and Prudential personal pension plans. 
What Ive set out below is in line with what our investigator previously recommended in his 
assessment of this complaint.
Deep Blue must carry out a loss assessment on the following basis:
Compare the actual performance of Ms M's SIPP with the notional value of her 
personal pension plans had they remained with the previous providers. If the actual 
value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional 
value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and compensation is payable;
Pay any interest as set out below;
If theres a loss, this should be paid to Ms M's SIPP to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid to 
the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance;
If compensation cannot be paid to Ms M's SIPP, it should pay that amount direct to 
her. But had it been possible to pay to the SIPP, it wouldve provided a taxable 
income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Ms M wont be 
able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid;
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. Ive decided that its reasonable 
to assume she is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, as Ms M wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum 
from the SIPP, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting 
in an overall reduction of 15%;
Refund to Ms M the adviser fees and commission associated specifically with 
investment in the Stirling Mortimer Land Fund (No 8) and Sycamore V Exempt 
Property Unit Trust funds together with simple interest at 8% a year from the date 
the fees were paid to the date of settlement. If the above comparison shows that no 
compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the notional 
value can be offset against the fees and commission with interest;
Provide the details of the calculation to Ms M in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Deep Blue considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms M how 
much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if 
she asks for one so that she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs, if 
appropriate;
Portfolio
nameStatus Benchmark From
("start
date")To ("end
date")Additional
interest
SIPP Still exists but 
some
liquid/
illiquidNotional 
value
from previous 
personal Date of
investmentDate of
this final 
decision 8% simple per 
year from date 
of this final 
decision to pension plan
providerssettlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of Deep 
Blue receiving 
Ms Ms 
acceptance of 
this final 
decision)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the end date. 
If, at the end date, all or part of the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on 
the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. So, the actual 
value of the illiquid investment(s) should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Deep Blue should take ownership of the illiquid investment(s) by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the SIPP provider. The amount paid should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If Deep Blue is unable to purchase the investment(s), the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. Deep Blue may wish to require that Ms M provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount she may receive from the portfolio in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Deep Blue will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Ms M's previous personal pension plan had they remained with the 
providers until the date of this final decision. Deep Blue should request that the previous 
providers calculate this value.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Deep Blue Financial Limited must redress Ms M as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman