DRN-4010634
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs H complain about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE has settled a claim Mr F 
made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr F made the claim and brought the complaint, Ill refer only to him throughout this 
decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Im setting out a summary 
of what I think are the key events.
Mr F held an annual travel insurance policy. He booked a trip abroad and was due to take a 
six-day, live aboard boat trip, on the Arctic Ocean. He flew abroad as planned in November 
2021.
However, he became unwell shortly after landing, the day before he was due to board the 
boat. He developed flu-like symptoms. He said he contacted Great Lakes assistance team 
and was told to see a doctor. He took a Covid-19 test, which provided a negative result. Mr F 
spoke to a virtual GP service, who diagnosed a non-Covid viral disease, which could be 
influenza. The GP also provided Mr F with a fit note stating he was unable to work for an 
eight-day period.
Mr F says that given the nature of the trip, which included ocean swimming, the GP advised 
him against taking the boat trip and suggested that he return home. Mr F says he spoke with 
the boat trip operator and was told the trip was non-refundable. He also says that the boat 
trip operator told him that his illness could jeopardise the health of other passengers. On that 
basis, Mr F decided against taking the trip and returned to the UK. He made a claim on his 
travel insurance policy for the costs of the boat trip.
Great Lakes partly settled Mr Fs claim. It covered the costs of Mr Fs return flight to the UK. 
But it didnt agree to settle the costs of the boat trip. Thats because it said Mr F hadnt 
provided a medical certificate which showed itd been necessary for Mr F to cancel or cut 
short his trip
Mr F was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator felt that Great Lakes had treated Mr F fairly and so she didnt think Mr Fs 
complaint should be upheld.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 February 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think Great Lakes had treated Mr F fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Fs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Great Lakes has 
treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr F and Great Lakes. Mr F cut short his trip and therefore, Great Lakes assessed  
the claim in line with the Cutting Short Your Trip section of the policy. This section of the 
contract provides cover if a policyholder has to curtail their trip for one of a defined, specific 
list of reasons. One of those insured events is:
a) an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion or any 
person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
This section of the policy also includes special conditions which apply to claims. These 
include the following:
You must obtain a medical certificate specifying the unforeseen illness or injury from 
the doctor in attendance to confirm the necessity to cancel your trip or return home;
If you have to cut short your trip you must contact us first to obtain our prior approval 
and allow us to make all the necessary travel arrangements to bring you home.
The insurance contract also sets out a list of General Exclusions which apply to all claims. 
One of those exclusions says that no cover will be provided for any claims:
Arising from you acting against the advice of a doctor.
Great Lakes considered that Mr F hadnt provided enough medical evidence to show that it 
was necessary for him to cut short his trip. So Ive considered whether this was a fair 
conclusion for Great Lakes to draw.
Theres no dispute that Mr F didnt obtain a medical certificate from a GP which specifically 
stated that he wasnt fit to undertake the boat trip. Neither is it clear whether he contacted 
the assistance company to gain its approval to curtail his trip and return to the UK. So on a 
strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr Fs claim may not be covered. However, I can 
depart from a strict interpretation of the contract terms, if I feel that their application produces 
an unfair result. And thats the case here, as Ill go on to explore.
Mr F says that he called Great Lakes assistance company when he became unwell and was 
told to speak to a GP. He says that he wasnt able to do so  and given he exhibited 
symptoms which might indicate a Covid-19 infection  I dont find this implausible. So it 
seems to me that an appointment with a virtual GP was potentially Mr Fs best option. And 
Mr F has evidenced that that appointment took place on 6 November 2021. The notes of that 
appointment show that Mr F was diagnosed with a viral disease, which could possibly be 
influenza.
The virtual GP didnt provide Mr F with Great Lakes standard medical certificate and neither 
did they say Mr F needed to cut short his trip. Instead, the fit note stated that Mr F wasnt fit 
to work for an eight-day period. Mr F says, though, that the GP advised him against taking 
the trip and told him to return to the UK. I find Mr Fs testimony on this point persuasive. It 
seems to me that if the GP concluded Mr F wasnt fit enough to work, then it seems theyd 
have also felt that he was unlikely to be fit enough to undertake a trip, during winter, on the 
Arctic Ocean, which included ocean swimming and snorkelling. On this basis then, it 
appears to me that Mr F may well have been travelling against medical advice had he taken 
the trip, which means he wouldnt have been entitled to any cover under the policy. And as 
Ive set out above, given the nature of his symptoms and prevailing concerns about Covid- 
19, it may have been difficult for Mr F to attend an in-person appointment and obtain a 
specific medical certificate.As such, it seems to me that Mr F has provided reasonable medical evidence which 
demonstrates he was unwell with an unforeseen illness, in line with the terms of the policy 
and which shows he wasnt fit to take the boat trip.
Ive next thought about the purpose of Mr Fs trip  which was swimming in the Arctic Ocean 
with a view to swimming and snorkelling with marine life. Given the nature of Mr Fs 
diagnosed illness, it seems that it wouldnt have been possible for Mr F to participate in 
sailing, swimming or snorkelling activities  especially taking into account the time of year 
and the location. Accordingly, I currently think the overall purpose of Mr Fs trip was 
frustrated, as he was prevented from taking part in the core activities the trip provided. And 
at that point, I think its fair to say that Mr Fs trip was effectively cut short by his diagnosed 
illness.
Im mindful that I dont currently have any evidence to show whether Mr F called the 
assistance team once he spoke with the GP, or before he arranged his return flight. So I 
asked Great Lakes if it could provide me with comments from its Chief Medical Officer to 
show what they likely would have advised Mr F to do had he told it about his diagnosis. 
Despite chases though, this evidence hasnt been provided. So I dont find that Great Lakes 
has currently demonstrated that its been prejudiced by any potential failure on Mr Fs part to 
call ahead of curtailing his trip.
Overall, on the evidence before me, I currently find that Mr F has sufficiently demonstrated 
that he was diagnosed with an unforeseen illness. And Im currently satisfied that this illness 
prevented Mr F from undertaking the core purpose of his trip. So I currently find that the 
purpose of Mr Fs trip was frustrated and that the trip was effectively curtailed at the point he 
became unwell. In the absence of any evidence to show that Great Lakes position was 
prejudiced by Mr Fs potential failure to gain its approval before returning to the UK, Im 
presently persuaded that it wasnt fair or reasonable for Great Lakes to decline Mr Fs claim 
for the boat trip costs. And so Im therefore intending to direct Great Lakes to reassess Mr 
Fs claim for the boat trip, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Both Mr F and Great Lakes said that they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
change them.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to reconsider Mr Fs claim, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman