DRN-3586162
The complaint
Mr R complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) (Klarna) wont admit that it was wrong in 
registering, and then refusing to remove, a record (with one or more third party credit 
reference agencies) of a credit check it undertook on him.
What happened
On 8 March 2021 Mr R attempted to purchase an item from a store that I will call G.
Mr R elected to purchase the item by way of credit from Klarna, credit he was accepted for. 
Mr R was accepted for the credit after Klarna undertook, amongst other things, a credit 
check on him.
For reasons unknown, at least with any degree of certainty, the purchase Mr R made with G 
wasnt successful, so he didnt need the credit offered to him by Klarna and for which Klarna 
had undertaken a credit check that was registered with one or more third party credit 
reference agencies.
On 8 March 2021, and whilst trying to purchase the item from G, Mr R spoke with Klarna for 
some help and assistance.
Shortly after the above call to Klarna, Mr R complained to our service.
On 8 June 2021 (and having received no response to its letters dated 21 April 2021 and 
25 May 2021) Klarna issued Mr R with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL Klarna said it wasnt upholding what it understood was Mr Rs complaint.
On 9 June 2021 Mr R asked Klarna to provide him with a recording (or transcript) of his 
8 March 2021 call to it because he disputed what Klarna had said, under cover of its FRL 
and other letters, what was discussed during this call.
Klarna was unable to provide Mr R with a recording (or transcript) of the 8 March 2021 call 
because it had deleted it on 6 June 2021 in line with what it says is its retention policy in 
respect of call recordings.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Its clear Mr R has very strong feelings about this complaint and I note that in his response to 
the investigators view he said that its not about compensation but more about Klarna 
[telling] the truth and for [it] to say sorry. But regardless of what Mr R might like Klarna to 
do in respect of his complaint I, like the investigator, am satisfied that Klarna has done 
nothing wrong in the particular circumstances of this case.
In a response to Mr R dated 31 March 2021 G said (amongst other things):
Approval of credit does not constitute acceptance of an order. We are aware that many 
people using the site at once can cause it to crash, we are working to resolve this, but 
unfortunately this can occur during checkout for some people however you can contact 
Klarna to have the hard check removed from your credit history and are able to try again if 
you wish to do so.
Please note that a check will be done again and again, this does not constitute acceptance 
by us until the confirm order button is clicked and you receive a confirmation email from [G]
I appreciate Mr R might not agree but given the above and given what Klarna told Mr R 
under its various correspondence sent to him between March and June 2021 I think 
responsibility for the purchase being unsuccessful rests with G and not Klarna. And as part 
of Gs terms and conditions any proposed purchase to be made with credit required the 
credit to be approved before the purchase could be approved. 
So, given what I say above I dont think Klarna did anything wrong in carrying out a credit 
check and registering that check with one or more third party credit reference agencies.
I will now turn to Klarnas refusal to remove the credit check it had registered with one or 
more third party credit reference agencies.
Now I can understand why Mr R thinks this check credit check should have been removed, 
after all (through no fault of his own) the purchase wasnt successful. But equally a credit 
check was undertaken by Klarna in good faith and with Mr Rs authority and it has a duty to 
accurately report this fact. 
I would also add that if financial businesses were unable to report information to credit
reference agencies that was being disputed by a consumer (whether on legal, regulatory or
fairness grounds) then confidence in what credit reference agencies hold and share (in
particular with businesses looking to grant credit) would be seriously undermined. 
I will now turn to what I understand is Mr Rs concerns that what Klarna told him was 
discussed with him during his call of 8 March 2021 (under cover of its FRL and other letters) 
is incorrect.Its unfortunate that Klarna no longer has a recording of the 8 March 2021 call. But in my 
view the first time Klarna could or should have realised this call recording might be important 
was on 8 June 2021 when Mr R requested it, or a transcript of it. And by this time the call 
had already been automatically deleted under Klarnas call recording retention policy, a 
policy that Im satisfied it would be neither fair nor reasonable for me to interfere with.
Mr R says he made reference to the 8 March 2021 call being important when he first raised it 
with our service in March 2021. Ive been unable to confirm whether he did so, but I can see 
that any importance Mr R might have placed on 8 March 2021 call wasnt shared with 
Klarna. When our service notified Klarna (on 15 March 2021) about Mr Rs complaint we 
simply (in line with our procedures) provided a brief outline of what Mr R was complaining 
about.
Mr R says he finds it suspicious that Klarna was able to provide him with a summary of what 
it says was discussed during his call of 8 March 2021, but not a full transcript or recording of 
it. But in my view what happened here, on the balance of probabilities, was that Klarna 
simply listened to the 8 March 2021 call (as part of its investigation into Mr Rs complaint) 
and made notes in respect of it before it was deleted and before it was aware the importance 
Mr R was placing on it.
But even if I wasnt of the above view Ive seen insufficient evidence that Mr R acted, to his 
detriment, on anything Klarna did or didnt discuss with him during this call, or on anything 
that was discussed during this call that turned out to be incorrect. Furthermore, Im not 
persuaded that anything Klarna might have discussed with Mr R (whether correct or not) 
would have caused him a level of distress and inconvenience that would warrant the making 
of a financial award by me, or a direction by me for Klarna to apologise.
I appreciate Mr R might be disappointed by my findings, but in summary Im not persuaded 
that Klarna needs to anything in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman