DRN-3382021
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as G has complained that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly
withdrew indemnity for a claim on its legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr H, a director of G, has brought the complaint on Gs behalf. G is also represented in 
bringing this complaint however, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as 
being those of G.
G is in administration and the administrator has consented to G bringing this complaint.
For ease of reading, reference to Amtrust will include anything done by their agents.
What happened
G held a business protection insurance policy. The policy contained legal expenses
insurance cover with Amtrust. Other parts of the business protection policy were insured by
different insurers.
G claimed on its policy in 2018 as it wanted to appeal a decision made by a regulatory body.
G said there were delays in dealing with the claim but Amtrust ultimately accepted the claim
in December 2018. There was ongoing discussion between G and Amtrust over the following
months however, in August 2019, Amtrust withdrew indemnity because G was in
administration. Amtrust said as G had been in administration since 2018 the claim shouldnt
have been accepted but, due to their error, they would honour costs previously incurred.
In September 2019 Amtrust appointed a firm of cost assessors to assess the amount
payable under the claim. There was some dispute about who should pay for the paper files
to be sent to the cost assessor but Amtrust ultimately agreed to pay for this. G disputed the
amount offered by Amtrust and was unhappy that the cost assessors hadnt reviewed the
paper files as it thought they were relevant. The cost assessor said they hadnt realised the
paper files were relevant and Amtrust offered a review of the costs in light of this.
Following lengthy discussions between the parties Amtrust and G reached an agreement on
the costs. However, G didnt think it was fair that it had incurred significant legal costs in
disputing the costs.
G complained to Amtrust. It said it had incurred costs and inconvenience due to Amtrusts
errors and as such Amtrust should continue to provide indemnity. G didnt think it was fair or
reasonable for Amtrust to remove indemnity in the month before the hearing. G said that
given the time and money spent on the case it had no option but to self-fund the case
through to the hearing. G also complained about how Amtrust had dealt with the costs.
When Amtrust refused to indemnify G for the remaining costs, G brought its complaint to our 
service. It complained:
About delays in Amtrust initially taking on the claim.
That Amtrust had a term in their policy which allowed them to remove indemnity if a
            company went into administration.
That Amtrust had removed indemnity in August 2019.
That the policy includes a term which allows Amtrust not to reimburse any costs until
            after legal proceedings have been concluded.
That Amtrusts handling of the recovery of Gs costs has been obstructive, unfair,
            hostile and at times misleading.
Our investigator explained to G that we couldnt consider any of its complaints which arose
from an act or omission that took place before 1 April 2019. He said hed considered
Amtrusts actions in removing indemnity for the claim, but he didnt think Amtrust had acted
unreasonably in doing so and as such didnt think Amtrust were liable to pay any further
costs.
G didnt think this provided a fair and reasonable outcome and asked for an ombudsmans
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 February 2022. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G has made a number of detailed complaints. While Ive considered all of them Im not going
to address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central
issues in this complaint.
What I will consider in this decision
G has complained about a number of separate businesses. In this decision I can only make
a finding on anything done by Amtrust and their agents. Any complaint about an act or
omission by a different company would need to be considered separately. Our investigator
has informed G which parts of its complaint relate to other businesses and therefore Im not
going to comment on them in this decision.
As G has disputed whether our service is able to consider all of its complaint I will explain
why I cant make any award for any errors in Amtrusts acts or omissions before 1 April
2019.
For us to be able to consider Gs complaint we need to have jurisdiction to do so. To put it
simply, we can only consider a complaint if our rules allow. Our jurisdiction is set out in DISP
2 and one of those rules is that the complainant must be eligible to bring the complaint to our
service.
DISP 2.7.3R sets out who is eligible to bring a complaint to our service. In relation to
businesses, our rules state that the business needs to be a 'micro-enterprise' or a 'small
business' to be eligible to refer a complaint here.
However, while a micro-enterprise has been able to bring a complaint to us for some time, a
small business can only bring a complaint to us about an act or omission by a financial
business that happened on or after 1 April 2019. Its not in dispute that G was a small
business at the time it complained to Amtrust which means that I can only make an award in
response to acts or omissions that took place from 1 April 2019. This means that I cant
consider Gs complaints in regard to Amtrusts delays in accepting the claim and I cant
make any award for Amtrust making a mistake and incorrectly providing indemnity for Gs
claim. I can however consider Amtrusts decision to withdraw indemnity for the claim andwhether Amtrust acted fairly and reasonably in how they handled Gs costs.
The claim
The terms of Gs policy say that Amtrust can withdraw indemnity if a policyholder business
goes into administration. I dont find this term unfair or unusual and its not in dispute that G
was in administration at the time of the claim. So, under a strict application of the terms of
the policy, Amtrust was entitled to remove indemnity for the claim. However, I dont think it
was fair and reasonable for them to do so. Ill explain why.
Amtrust dont think that G was prejudiced by the withdrawal of indemnity. They said that G
had received payment for a significant proportion of the claim that it wouldnt have received if
they hadnt made an error.
While I cant make an award for Amtrusts error in accepting the claim, I can make an award
for any act or omission that happened after 1 April 2019. In this case I think Amtrust should
have noticed its error sooner as it was always aware that G was in administration, so Ive
thought about what would have happened if it had let G know sooner that its claim wouldnt
be covered.
G said that it waited for cover to be confirmed by Amtrust before initially going ahead with
the case and that if Amtrust had withdrawn indemnity in April 2019 it wouldnt have
continued with it. However, G said that given the costs it had incurred and the time it had
spent on the case between April and July, it decided that it had little option but to continue to
the hearing when indemnity was withdrawn in August 2019. G said that during this time Mr H
and his daughter spent weeks going through evidence held by the companys administrators
which meant a cost in both time and money as G also had to pay for a member of the
administrators staff to supervise their access to the materials.
Im persuaded by what G has said as it had spent considerable time and money on the claim
between April and July. I understand G was also funding some of the solicitors fees itself, so
it had also incurred costs between April and July. If G had decided to abandon the claim in
August it would have lost that money without having reached the appeal. While G also paid
out for costs incurred between December 2018 and April 2019, Im persuaded that the
accumulation of these costs and the time involved meant he was more likely to continue with
the appeal in August than he would have been if indemnity had been withdrawn sooner.
Having taken all of this into account, Im persuaded that Amtrust withdrawing indemnity in
August caused G a loss that it wouldnt otherwise have had if Amtrust had removed 
indemnity on 1 April.
Therefore, I think its fair and reasonable for Amtrust to compensate G for its loss. I have
considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Amtrust to reimburse G
for the money it spent on the claim between April and July instead, but I dont think that
would produce a fair and reasonable outcome as that wouldnt adequately compensate G for
the time it worked on the claim during that time.
In order to put things right, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Amtrust to 
reimburse G for any further costs it would have paid on the claim if it hadnt withdrawn
indemnity, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. As G has paid these costs and
therefore been without money it should have had, Amtrust should add interest to this amount
at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Amtrust reimbursed G for its costs on the part
of the claim they did pay to the date they make payment.
CostsThe terms and conditions of Gs policy say that Amtrust wont pay interim costs and if costs
cant be recovered from the opponent then an invoice should be submitted to Amtrust after
the conclusion of the case. I realise that given the nature of the hearing its unusual for a
policyholder to be able to recover costs from the opponent, but I think it was reasonable for
Amtrust to rely on this term.
Amtrust appointed a firm of cost assessors in September 2019. I can see from an email that
G said its files were primarily held electronically but there were also a few boxes of paper
files. There was initially a dispute about who should pay for the costs involved in couriering
the files to the cost assessor, but Im pleased to see that Amtrust ultimately agreed to pay for
these.
I think G made it clear that there were paper files that needed to be reviewed. There appears
to have been a misunderstanding as the cost assessor said they didnt need to review the
paper files as they suspected they would be mostly documents relevant to disclosure which
didnt need to be viewed at that stage.
Amtrust made an initial offer on costs in January 2020. Discussions between the parties
continued over a number of months and G highlighted that the assessor hadnt reviewed the
paper files. I can see that Amtrust offered for the cost assessor to review their findings in
light of this.
Its not for me to make a finding on the costs arrived at by the costs assessor and I think
Amtrust did what it needed to do in appointing a cost assessor and in offering to correct any
mistake by reviewing the files.
I appreciate G thinks it should have been able to appoint its own cost assessors at Amtrusts
expense, but this isnt something thats covered by the policy. In any event, G has had its
own legal advice in relation to the negotiations over costs. Im not going to make any award
for this as I think Amtrust did what it needed to do in appointing a cost assessor and offering
to review the amounts.
Ive also noted Gs comments that it found Amtrusts approach to negotiating costs to be
obstructive, unfair, hostile and at time misleading however Im not upholding its complaint in
relation to that. While there were disagreements over the costs I think Amtrust did their best
to resolve things fairly.
Amtrust didnt accept my provisional decision. They said G had benefitted from their error 
and to conclude that G wouldnt have gone ahead with the appeal if it hadnt been covered is 
inconsistent with its duty to act as though uninsured. Amtrust thought G would most likely 
have gone ahead with the appeal as its reputation was at stake. 
G accepted my provisional decision in part but also disagreed with a number of points. It 
provided a detailed response. In summary, it said:
The decision hadnt dealt with the following complaint points:
1. Whether the policy was fit for purpose as it contained a clause allowing Amtrust 
to cancel the policy if G went into administration.
2. That the claims handler allocated in December 2018 wasnt suitable due to their 
lack of knowledge of the QCQ appeals.
3. The policy is unsuitable as G would never have been able to recover costs from 
the other party.The decision didnt engage with Gs complaint that Amtrust was entitled to refuse to 
reimburse a proportion of the its costs for the time it was on cover.
My decision would put G in the position of having to enter further negotiation with 
Amtrust over the costs to be repaid. G said it had incurred significant costs in 
responding to Amtrust. 
Section 12 of Gs policy says that it will cover all costs and expenses in connection 
with any appeal.
My decision should require Amtrust to reimburse Gs actual costs both up to the point 
it withdrew cover and then to the conclusion of the case. 
It remained unhappy with other parts of the policy which were covered by a different 
insurer. 
G clarified that Amtrust had paid towards its costs until 9 August but remained unhappy 
about the amount paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the points both G and Amtrust have made, Im not going to depart from 
my provisional decision. As in the provisional decision Im not going to comment on every 
point G has made and in this decision will focus on what I think are the central issues. This 
reflects the informal nature of our service and my role. 
What is being considered
G has referred to its complaint about another insurer. In this decision I can only make a 
finding on anything Amtrust might, or might not, have done wrong. Therefore, any complaint 
about another insurer will be dealt with separately. 
G has also referred to Section 12 of Gs policy. However, that is separate cover which isnt 
insured by Amtrust. Therefore, Im not going to comment on it further in this decision. 
Amtrusts claims handler
I understand G is unhappy about the knowledge and experience of Amtrusts claims handler. 
However, Im satisfied that my final decision fairly compensates G for any error made by the 
claims handler.  
Suitability of Gs policy
With regard to Gs policy containing terms which it finds unfair, I would draw Gs attention to 
my findings that I dont find this term unfair or unusual and I realise that given the nature of 
the hearing its unusual for a policyholder to be able to recover costs from the opponent, but 
I think it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely on this term.
If G thinks the policy is unsuitable and is unhappy about how the policy was sold it would 
need to complain about the sale of the policy separately. 
CostsI understand G thinks that my provisional decision doesnt engage with Gs complaint that 
Amtrusts initial costs offer was too low. However, Im not determining the costs payable and 
instead have considered what Amtrust have done in assessing the costs. Im satisfied that 
Amtrust did what Id expect it to do by appointing a costs assessor to look into them and 
reviewing the costs when G raised concerns.
Amtrusts response to my provisional decision
I understand Amtrust thinks G would have gone ahead with the claim if Amtrust hadnt made 
an error in offering indemnity as its reputation was at stake. 
As Amtrust didnt notice their error sooner its impossible to know for sure what G would 
have done in April 2019. However, on balance Im persuaded by what G has said given the 
cost involved in pursuing the appeal without indemnity. I dont think its fair and reasonable 
for Amtrust to say that in deciding not to pursue the appeal G would have been acting in 
conflict with its duty to act as though uninsured as I dont think it would be reasonable to 
expect G to fund its own appeal when its in administration even if it did have reasonable 
prospects of success.
Putting things right
Ive noted Gs point that it would like me to award its full costs and to provide a settlement 
figure. However, I remain satisfied that the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular 
complaint is for Amtrust to reimburse G for any additional costs they would have been 
responsible for if they hadnt withdrawn indemnity, plus interest on that amount at a rate of 
8% simple per year from the date Amtrust paid the costs on the part of the claim they did pay 
until the date they make payment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to reimburse G for any additional 
costs they would have been responsible for if they hadnt withdrawn indemnity, plus interest 
on that amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Amtrust paid the costs on the 
part of the claim they did pay until the date they make payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman