DRN-3434904
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) didnt clearly tell him his 
pet insurance policy would automatically renew. My references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
Mr C had pet insurance for his dog, insured by RSA. He paid for the policy by direct debit. 
In November 2021 Mr C received a letter from RSA saying the policy was due to renew. He 
said he skim-read the letter, didnt check if there was any more information on the back page 
and based on what he read he thought he didnt need to take any action if he didnt want the 
policy to automatically renew.
In January 2022 Mr C realised he was still paying for the policy which had automatically 
renewed. He called RSA and cancelled the policy on 7 January 2022. RSA partially refunded 
the premium. 
Mr C complains that the policy renewal letter wasnt clear he had to contact RSA if he didnt 
want the policy to automatically renew. He wants a full premium refund from the date the 
policy renewed to the date it was cancelled and for RSA to make the letter clearer. He also 
wants RSA to apologise and pay him compensation for the time and inconvenience in having 
to make the complaint.
RSA said that Mr Cs policy had automatically renewed in 2018, 2019, 2020 as well as in 
2021 and hed not previously contacted it for renewal. It said its renewal letters were clear 
the policy would automatically renew and the renewal information had always been on the 
second page of the letter. Information about the policy renewing/cancelling was also on the 
policy schedule.
Our investigator said RSA had acted reasonably and didnt need to pay the full refund.
Mr C disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said:
In previous years he did nothing when he got the renewal letters as the premium was 
affordable, he never read the letters and what happened at previous policy renewals 
was irrelevant.
We should take into account guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) about clear and fair communication.
RSAs renewal letter wasnt clear because the action he needed to take to stop the 
policy automatically renewing was on the back page of the letter and there was 
nothing on the front page telling him to look on the back. 
Information on the letters front page was misleading as under the action you need to 
take heading it didnt mention he had to phone to cancel the policy. The design of 
the letter meant if the whole letter wasnt read the policy renewed.
He hadnt made a claim so RSA had received premiums due to a misleading letter. 
He said that was an unequal balance of power between him and RSA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the FCA, has set out rules and guidance about what an 
insurer needs to do when an insurer proposes a renewal of certain policies. These are 
contained in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) and Ive taken these 
into account, and industry best practice in general, when considering whether RSA provided 
reasonable information to Mr C about renewal of his policy. 
The ICOBS requirements include that an insurer must provide to the consumer, in good time 
before the renewal, a statement telling the consumer whether the policy will automatically 
renew or whether the consumer needs to take action to accept the renewal offer. And the 
insurer must communicate the information clearly and accurately, in writing or another 
durable medium and in a way that is accessible and which draws the consumers attention to 
it as key information.
The policy was to renew on 24 November 2021 and RSAs renewal letter was 30 October 
2021, which Mr C says he received 8 November 2021. So I think RSA sent the letter in good 
time before the renewal date. RSAs letter said:
How to renew your policy
As you're paying your premium by direct debit, you don't need to call to renew - your 
policy will be automatically renewed.
However, if you'd like to change or cancel your cover please contact us before 24 
November 2021.
In the event that our policy does not cover your needs, you can cancel your policy 
within 14 days of your renewal date. For full details please see the enclosed Renewal 
Schedule.
We look forward to covering (pets name) for another year.
Yours sincerely...
Im satisfied the letter was clear that the policy would automatically renew and clear about 
what Mr C needed to do to cancel the policy. The information was clearly set out under the 
How to renew your policy heading.
Mr C says the information wasnt clear because it was on the second page of RSAs letter 
and there was nothing on the letters first page to say there was a second page. But I think 
its clear that the first page of the letter isnt the whole letter as theres no signature from the 
insurer on the first page. 
Theres a heading of action you need to take on the letters first page. Under that heading it 
doesnt say Mr C needs to contact RSA to cancel the policy. But it does say Mr C should 
check the policy schedule enclosed to check it meets his needs. The policy schedule 
includes the following information:
How to renew your policy
Well contact you before your policy is due to renew each year, to let you know the 
price and terms and conditions that will apply for the following year. If youd like to 
make changes or cancel the cover, please let us know before the renewal date.
Unless you advise us before the renewal date that you wish to cancel your cover, the 
policy will automatically renew if you pay by Direct Debit
I think RSAs policy renewal communication to Mr C was in line with the FCA rules and 
guidance. The information that the policy would automatically renew was given clearly and accurately in writing and the layout of the information should have reasonably drawn Mr Cs 
attention to the information. Mr C didnt see that information but hes told us he skim-read the 
renewal letter. I think RSA could reasonably expect Mr C to fully read the renewal letter and 
policy schedule. If he had done so he would have seen the renewal information. I dont think 
RSA is responsible for Mr C choosing to only skim-read the renewal letter.
In addition, I think what happen at previous policy renewals is relevant. At the previous three 
renewals Mr C didnt contact  RSA to have the policy renewed and the policy still renewed. 
So I dont think Mr C could reasonably expect that the 2021/22 policy would only renew if he 
did contact RSA. 
Mr C didnt claim on the policy from the date the policy renewed, 24 November 2021, to the 
date he cancelled the policy, 7 January 2022. But RSA was reasonably able to charge a 
premium for covering the risk of Mr C making a claim on the policy during that period 
whether or not he made a claim. RSA says it had collected two premium payments with 
cover being paid up to 23 January 2022 by the time Mr C cancelled the policy. So the partial 
refund was for the cover paid for, but not given, from 7 to 23 January 2022 which was fair. 
I dont agree with Mr Cs suggestion that there was an unfair balance of power in favour of 
RSA.
Theres no basis for me to say RSA must provide Mr C with a full refund, or an apology or 
pay him compensation. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman