DRN-2196481
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). 
He has also complained that he tried to downgrade it multiple times, but Halifax refused to 
do so.
What happened
One of our ombudsmen has already issued a decision explaining why we are unable to look 
into Mr Rs complaint about the sale of his URCA. This decision will therefore only focus on 
Mr Rs complaint that he tried to downgrade his URCA, but Halifax refused to do so.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Rs complaint about his attempts to downgrade his 
account to a fee-free account and he didnt think that Halifax had done anything wrong. 
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision on that aspect of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that approach to help me decide this case. And having done so, I dont uphold 
this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr R says that when he complained that his URCA had been mis-sold in 2016, Halifax 
refused to downgrade his account. However, in its final response letter dated 9 May 2016, 
Halifax said:
In light of your comments regarding your URCA not being sold appropriately, it is necessary 
for you to review which account is right for you. While I cannot advise you on which account 
is best for your needs, I have included with this letter details of all the current accounts that 
we at Halifax offer, including those accounts which have no monthly account fee.
If you do not feel your current bank account is right for you, you need to act now. To change 
to any of our other accounts, you can visit any Halifax branch (visit www.Halifax.co.uk to find 
your local branch) or you can call us on Halifax  08457 20 30 40 (geographic number 0113 
242 1984).
If you do not take any action to change your account within the next 60 days, we will assume 
that you are happy with the account you hold. We will write to you again in 60 days to 
confirm that is our understanding.
As Mr R had still not downgraded his account to a fee-free account, Halifax wrote to Mr R 
again on 9 July 2016 and said:
Having reviewed your details, we can see you have not changed the account which the
complaint related to.
As mentioned in our previous correspondence, we will now assume that you are happy with 
the account you hold.
Dont forget, you can discuss moving to an account without a monthly fee. The easiest way 
is to call Telephone Banking or with a member of staff in any Halifax branch. Theres also
additional information for all of our accounts online at www.halifax.co.uk.
Looking at the letters Halifax sent to Mr R, Im satisfied that Halifax clearly explained to Mr R 
how he could go about downgrading his account, if he didnt want to keep an URCA. And it 
even reminded him that hed still not downgraded his account two months after it had 
responded to his complaint.
Mr R has not given any dates or any specific details or recollections about when he says he 
asked for his account to be downgraded. I have checked all of the evidence that Halifax has 
been able to provide, which included a customer contact record which contains a summary 
of letters sent to Mr R as well as conversations he may have had with Halifax. 
Having carefully reviewed everything, I cant find any evidence to suggest that he discussed 
his account options with Halifax, let alone asked for it to be downgraded. So based on 
everything that Mr R and Halifax has provided, Im unable to say that its likely that Halifax 
refused to downgrade Mr Rs account, as he says it did.
Finally, in his response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr R says that as he complained 
that the URCA was mis-sold in 2016, then Halifax knew he didnt want it and so shouldve 
downgraded it. I understand why Mr R has said this, but I dont think it was unreasonable in 
the circumstances that Halifax asked Mr R to downgrade his account by picking the one he 
wanted, from its range of accounts - rather than downgrading it for him. I understand a 
reason for asking Mr R to go through the downgrading process was to ensure he understood 
what features he would be losing and what his account will be changing to, once the 
packaged account was removed. 
So based on Mr Rs response to the adjudicators assessment, it seems that he mayve 
assumed his URCA would be downgraded because hed complained about it. But as Ive 
established above, I think Halifax made it clear that it would not be automatically 
downgraded, and that Mr R had to downgrade the account himself.
Because of this, Im unable to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Overall, I think Halifax did what it 
needed to do, to explain to Mr R how he could downgrade his account to a fee-free account 
if he wanted to.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Thomas WhiteOmbudsman