DRN-3570006
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the payment delays she experienced with her Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) account.
What happened
Mrs P is a customer of Nationwide. Mrs P says she experienced payment delays on four 
separate occasions over a few months. On one of those occasions, in November 2021, Mrs 
P says her husband transferred money to her to treat herself for their wedding anniversary. 
She says there was a delay in receiving it.
Mrs P also says on another occasion there were delays in her receiving her salary causing 
her significant stress and inconvenience and she could not pay or transfer money to pay her 
bills and rent.
Nationwide say they had problems on those dates with incoming and outgoing payments, 
which resulted in delays in payments completing on time. To say sorry for the problems this 
had caused Mrs P, they gave £100.
Mrs P, unhappy with Nationwides response, referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered whether Nationwide had done enough to put things right and 
concluded they had. He said that the £100 offer Nationwide had made is fair given the 
circumstances and is in line with the amount he would recommend.
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators outcome and believed compensation of around £250 
would be a fairer amount. The complaint was eventually referred to an ombudsman. And so, 
it has been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Mrs P experienced payment delays on four occasions over a few months. Nationwide 
acknowledged their mistake and say they experienced problems with either inbound or 
outbound payments in those instances. As a result, payments were delayed. For 
compensation for the inconvenience caused, Nationwide offered £100 to Mrs P. As it isnt in 
dispute Nationwide has made a mistake, Ive gone on to consider whether this is a fair 
outcome.
The impact of Nationwides mistake was that Mrs P wasnt able to treat herself on her 
wedding anniversary. She also says that the delays in payments caused her stress.
Nationwide has provided me details of the communication it had sent out to its customers 
through their various communication channels when they experienced the issues. Their 
communication channels included their banking app as well as their website, among other 
things. In their messaging they explained whether their customers were still able to use their 
cards online and in shops, and whether they could still log into their banking app or withdraw 
money at a cash machine or branch.
They have also explained that on all occasions, their payment delays were resolved within 
24 hours, and on a couple of occasions within a few hours. I appreciate it must have been 
frustrating for Mrs P to experience delays in payments, and I accept it may have resulted in 
some degree of stress. But I think the impact on Mrs P has been lessened somewhat by 
being able to still access her account or her remaining funds in her accounts in other ways, 
such as via branch. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest any of the payments or bills 
Mrs P says were due around the time her salary was due to be paid had failed, causing 
knock-on impact. And, in any event, it is likely any knock-on impact would have been 
minimal, due to how quickly Nationwide had resolved things.
Nationwide offered £100 as compensation. Considering the acute stress the payment delays 
likely caused Mrs P, as well as how quickly the payment delays were corrected, I think 
Nationwides offer is fair in the circumstances.
So, I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman