DRN-1712433
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc (Bradford & Bingley) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B arranged a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in 1992. During the application 
they were also sold a MPPI policy that covered them both against accidents, sickness and 
unemployment. This was all arranged in a meeting. The policy and mortgage ended in 1996. 
Mr and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley presented the MPPI policy as a must have insurance. 
They say the advisor told them to take out PPI and stated it would be more likely their 
mortgage would be approved if they did. They say they didn't go into Bradford & Bingley to 
buy MPPI - they went there to get a mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs B dont not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide provisionally what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for the following reasons:
I looked at whether Mr and Mrs B were given a choice to have the MPPI policy or not. 
When I consider this, I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs 
B during the meeting in 1992 and although I acknowledge what they say about the 
meeting, I've also needed to consider the sales documentation from that time as well. 
Bradford & Bingley has been able to provide a copy of the application form for the 
sale, and on seeing this I am persuaded that Mr and Mrs B were given an option to 
have MPPI in the meeting and informed of its details. 
 
I have drawn that conclusion because I can see on the application form for their 
mortgage in 1992 that there were options listed regarding the type of cover that they 
would like. This suggests to me that a conversation was likely had regarding what 
type of cover, and they chose one of the options and signed the form agreeing to 
have the MPPI policy to protect their repayments. So on seeing this and without a 
more detailed recollection or further evidence to support what Mr and Mrs B say, I am 
persuaded they were given a choice to have the MPPI policy.
 Mr and Mrs B say they were given a recommendation to have the MPPI policy. I am 
also persuaded that this was the case. So as Bradford & Bingley recommended the 
policy, it had a responsibility to ensure the policy was suitable for them. And it looks 
like it was suitable based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time.
 
I say this because although Mr and Mrs B both had at least 6 months sick pay each I 
think the cover would have been useful in a time of need. They both could have 
made a claim alongside having their provisions if they needed to and the claim could 
have been for longer than their sick pay would last. I could also not find any other 
reason that would make the policy unsuitable for them such as a restrictive or limiting 
term. 
 
Bradford & Bingley has provided some information about the costs relating to the 
MPPI that Mr and Mrs B took out. But I cant be sure if it clearly disclosed the costs of 
the policy to them in the meeting. That said, even if it did, I dont think it would have 
affected their decision to take the policy with their mortgage for the same reason that 
I think the policy was suitable.
 
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs B wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
I consider that the policy provided Mr and Mrs B with a useful additional benefit for a 
reasonable cost to protect their home in the event that it was necessary for them to 
make a claim. Im not persuaded they would have avoided protecting their 
repayments given the serious consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against 
their home.
 
In conclusion, although I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, I do not 
uphold their complaint for the reasons given.
my final decision
For the reasons I have explained I do not uphold Mr and Mrs B's complaint and so Bradford 
& Bingley Plc does not have to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman