DRN-3654593
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr As employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr As employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr A with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £640,138.45.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr A was also first in contact with IFM in October 2017. Hes told us a friend of his, who was 
also a member of the BSPS, gave him IFMs contact details. And he says he was looking for 
advice about what was the best option for him, given the ongoing uncertainty and negative 
things hed heard about the PPF.
IFM emailed Mr A a fact find to complete and return, to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. Mr A was 46, in good health married with three children, two 
of whom were financially dependent. Mr A was employed, earning £53,000 per year. Mrs A 
was also employed with a recorded salary of £33,000 per year. They owned their own home 
and had an outstanding mortgage of approximately £36,000 with 10 years left to run. They 
also had unsecured debt through credit cards and loans of around £50,000. No savings or 
assets, beyond their property, were recorded  although the form doesnt appear to have 
included a section requesting this information. Mr and Mrs As income exceeded their 
outgoings by approximately £590 per month. Although their disposable income per month 
was said to be closer to £300.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr A was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme, to which he and his employer were making 
combined contributions equivalent to 16% of his salary. But he noted that the BSPS pension 
made up the majority of his retirement provisions at that time.
Mr A said the earliest he would plan to retire was age 60 but that didnt mean he would want 
to and he said realistically he expected to retire at age 65. While he said he had no real 
plans for tax-free cash he thought it might make sense to take this at age 55 and clear any 
remaining debts and make home improvements. There was nothing recorded in the fact-find 
about his expected income needs in retirement. Mr A indicated he was interested in lump 
sum death benefits available from a personal pension. And he had concerns about what had 
happened to that point with the BSPS and so was interested in control and flexibility. But he 
was also asked to rank his priorities and noted that improving the security of his pension was 
his number one priority.
Mr A was also asked to answer questions about his attitude to risk. This included to self-
assess which from a number of profiles best summarised his attitude, to which Mr A 
indicated he believed he was a balanced investor. 
Mr A returned the fact find via email to IFM and asked about its fees for advice. I can see 
that IFM replied on 30 October 2017, confirming how much it would charge and asked Mr A 
if you would like us to proceed with the transfer for you. Mr A indicated he would like to go 
ahead, and a follow up meeting was arranged for 13 November 2017.
At the meeting on 13 November 2017 Mr A signed a copy of IFMs terms of business. Forms 
were also signed and completed to authorise the BSPS to pay the transfer value to a new 
pension arrangement. And application forms were also signed, and dated the following day, 
for a new personal pension. So, it appears he was verbally advised to transfer during that 
meeting.
IFM then issued a recommendation letter, dated 14 November 2017, in which it advised 
Mr A to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension. The suitability report said 
Mr As objective was to transfer his pension to provide him greater flexibility when drawing 
benefits. It also said ensuring the pension would not die with him was important and that he 
placed greater value on having control over his pension fund than having a guaranteed 
income. And it said his desire to retire early might not be met by the existing scheme. So, 
IFM said it recommended a transfer as this would provide Mr A flexibility in how and when he 
could take his benefits and he was prepared to accept greater risk in return for this. It 
recommended a new pension provider and fund that it said met Mr As attitude to risk, as 
IFM said it had established he was willing to take a moderate level of risk. Mr A complained in 2022 to IFM about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said hed 
recently received a letter from the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) saying 
he mightve received unsuitable advice to transfer out of the BSPS. He said he was 
concerned hed now lost the guaranteed benefits he was entitled to and IFM had failed to 
consider how his existing scheme couldve met his needs in retirement.  
IFM didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said it thought the advice was suitable as it provided 
him flexibility and the ability to achieve his other objectives.
Mr A referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
considered it. He thought it should be upheld and that IFM should compensate Mr A for any 
loss the DB transfer had led to and pay him £300 for the distress caused. He noted that IFM 
had asked Mr A if he wanted to proceed with a transfer before it provided him advice. Which 
the Investigator thought suggested an outcome had already been determined by IFM. In any 
event though the Investigator noted, when Mr A completed the fact find hed said the security 
of his pension had been his main priority. And Mr A had explained that he took advice 
because of concerns about what the PPF meant for that security. So, the Investigator didnt 
think the reasons given for transferring were Mr As main priorities at the time of the advice. 
He felt Mr A was unlikely to improve on the pension benefits he already held as a result of 
transferring. And the Investigator didnt think, given how long Mr A had until retirement, that 
he needed to transfer at that stage, as his plans were largely unconfirmed. So, if suitable 
advice had been given, he felt Mr A would likely have retained his DB scheme benefits and 
joined the BSPS2.
IFM disagreed as it felt the advice had been appropriate based on Mr As stated objectives. 
It also said that the FCA had reviewed the advice, as part of its work in relation to pension 
transfers from the BSPS, and had said it was suitable.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, noting that the FCA and Financial 
Ombudsman have different roles and remits. So, he said he still didnt think the advice was 
suitable. As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board what IFM has said about the FCA having already reviewed this advice. 
And Ive looked at the summary it has provided. It would appear though that the review by 
the FCA only involved the input of one of the parties. And I dont know how much information 
it had access to or considered. In addition, the Financial Ombudsman Service and the FCA 
have different roles and remits. Unlike the FCA our role is not a regulatory one. We are 
tasked with looking beyond simply whether a business has complied with its regulatory 
requirements. Instead, we consider information from both parties and decide, while having 
regard for relevant law and regulations, what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint. So, I dont think the FCA having undertaken a separate 
review impacts our consideration of this complaint or prevents me from reaching my findings 
independently of the FCAs consideration.In considering this complaint I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) 
and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). But Ive also considered what both 
parties have said provided. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. This includes COBS 19.1.6G in which the regulator states 
the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr As best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
The process IFM followed
IFM emailed Mr A on 30 October 2017 asking if hed like it to proceed with the transfer for 
him. This was before any advice had been provided. This effectively put the decision to 
transfer onto Mr A, without giving him any indication of whether it was in his interests. He 
wasnt in an informed position at that point to make that decision and so I dont think IFM 
was acting in his interests by asking him this question. A more appropriate process wouldve 
been for it to provide him advice and allow him to consider this, before going ahead.
In addition, all of the relevant paperwork to proceed with the transfer then seems to have 
been completed on 13 and 14 November 2017. IFM met with Mr A on 13 November 2017, 
so the majority of this paperwork seems to have been completed at that time. The suitability 
report was dated 14 November 2017, so it doesnt seem likely Mr A had sight of this before 
he agreed to proceed. And, given when all of the forms were signed, it certainly, in my view, 
appears unlikely that hed have had time to consider its contents before proceeding. It again 
therefore doesnt appear that Mr A was given any time to consider the advice, before being 
directed towards transferring. Which, given the significance of the transfer again doesnt 
appear to have been in his interests.
I dont know what was discussed in the meeting of 13 November 2017 and there dont 
appear to be any meeting notes from the time available. So, in the circumstances, I think its 
fair to assume that the contents of the recommendation letter likely best reflected the advice 
that was given to Mr A. But, for the reasons Ill now explain, I think there was information 
omitted from this that was important. And I dont think a transfer was in his interests. Financial viability 
IFM was required, by the regulator, to carry out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report at 
the time of the advice here. It has said that it did so, but a copy of the report is no longer 
available. One of the things that should have been calculated as part of the TVAS was the 
critical yield - how much Mr As pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme at retirement.
The suitability report refers to this having been calculated. It says that this comparison was 
made to the expected benefits at age 65. But it downplayed the significance of this, as it said 
it was known that the BSPS was not going to continue, and that Mr A didnt intend to 
replicate the benefits he held. So, it said this was largely academic. But I dont agree with 
IFM that this was not an important consideration. Again, it was required by the regulator and 
gives an important indication of the value of the benefits Mr A held.
IFM said in the recommendation that the critical yield, although it didnt refer to it as that, was 
around 8% in respect of the BSPS benefits available at age 65. And to match the benefits 
the PPF was likely to provide at age 65 the critical yield was around 4%. 
I note though, in response to Mr As complaint, when it explained it didnt have a copy of the 
TVAS to refer to IFM said Our extensive research on behalf of many scheme members 
resulted in critical yield figures of around 6-8%. It was established over time that critical yield 
figures for older members were higher than for younger colleagues. We considered that 
quoting a rate at the upper end of the scale however, and the worst case scenario this 
represented, meant we built-in a high level of tolerance. While IFM has said that a TVAS 
would have been completed, its inability to produce one, this explanation and the lack of 
quoting a specific figure, because it said the growth required was around 8%, to me casts 
doubt on whether a TVAS, specific to Mr As circumstances, was completed here. Rather it 
seems to indicate IFM may just have been quoted a generic critical yield of 8% as a worst 
case scenario. In which case IFM would not have done what was required of it.
However, even if the figures that IFM has referred to in the suitability report were based on a 
TVAS specific to Mr As circumstances, I dont think IFMs analysis has gone far enough. It 
was required to compare the benefits likely payable under the DB scheme and those that an 
alternative pension might offer and provide Mr A with sufficient detail so that he could make 
an informed decision. But I dont think it has done so here.
Firstly, it is unclear whether the critical yield figures were based on taking a full annual 
pension from either the BSPS or PPF at age 65 or taking the maximum possible tax-free 
cash and a reduced annual pension. As these two options tend to produce different critical 
yields, Id have expected to have seen both figures quoted, for both the BSPS and the PPF, 
and explained. And I also cant see any reference in monetary terms to what the PPF was 
likely to pay Mr A from age 65. In my experience this information tends to be produced when 
a TVAS is completed. And I think this wouldve been important information to provide to Mr A 
to consider, so that he could make an informed decision.
IFM also doesnt appear to have produced any critical yield figures in respect of the benefits 
that would be provided by either the BSPS or the PPF at age 60. Nor estimates in monetary 
terms, of the benefits either would provide. Given the suggestion that Mr A may look to retire 
at that point, I think producing information about what he could expect to receive in monetary 
terms and the critical yields that would be required to replicate those benefits would again 
have been appropriate. And, in order to give Mr A enough information to make an informed 
decision, I think this is something IFM shouldve done.On top of this, the limited comparison that IFM seems to have carried out was based on 
matching Mr As existing scheme, the BSPS. But Mr A didnt have the option to remain in the 
BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. Yet 
there is no evidence of a comparison being carried out by IFM to the benefits the BSPS2 
wouldve offered. And I think there shouldve been.
The restructuring of BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the point 
IFM advised Mr A. And Mr As employer had agreed actions with the pensions regulator, 
and these had been carried out as scheduled  not least a lump sum payment into the BSPS 
which enabled the provision of improved transfer value quotations in September 2017. Mr A 
had also received his time to choose pack  with joining the new scheme one of the 
options. Details of the new scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the 
same income benefits as the BSPS but the annual increases wouldve been lower. And the 
rates of revaluation and escalation were available. So, based on what had happened to the 
point advice was given, I think the relevant parties were confident that the BSPS2 would go 
ahead. And there was sufficient information available for a TVAS to have been completed 
looking at the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve offered at age 65 or 60. And I think that 
comparison shouldve been produced and factored into the advice so that Mr A was able to 
make an informed decision. And without this, Im not sure he was in a position to truly 
understand the value of what IFM recommended he give up.
These significant failing notwithstanding, Ive considered the limited comparison of benefits 
that does seem to have been done.
Again, IFM indicated the critical yield to match the benefits the BSPS wouldve provided at 
65, although the basis of these  full pension or maximum tax-free cash and reduced 
pension  is unclear, was around 8%. And to match what the PPF wouldve offered at age 
65 was around 4%.
While again a comparison of BSPS2 benefits was not produced, even though I think it 
shouldve been, I can make reasonable assumptions about what these wouldve been  
assuming the critical yield figures that IFM has quoted were accurate in Mr As specific 
circumstances. The BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits as the BSPS but the 
annual revaluation pre-retirement and escalations post-retirement wouldve been lower. The 
lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields 
somewhat compared to the BSPS. But, based on my experience of other complaints, I still 
think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF, and, particularly at age 
65, closer to those of the BSPS.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.4% per year for 18 years to retirement, if Mr A were to retire at 65. Ive kept in mind 
that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%. Ive also seen a copy of a projection from the time produced by the pension provider IFM 
recommended. And this said, at that point, the anticipated growth rates of the funds that IFM 
said Mr A should invest in were between 2.57% and 2.69%.
I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mr As attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr A 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, on balance I think Mr A was always 
likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the BSPS2 was likely to offer at age 
65. 
The discount rate was marginally higher than the critical yield figure of around 4% IFM said 
would need to be achieved to match the PPF benefits. So, if that critical yield figure was 
accurate, there appears to have been potential for him to be slightly better off if he retired at 
age 65 by transferring compared to if his pension had gone into the PPF. But again, I havent 
seen evidence to support that critical yield figure being specific to Mr As circumstances or to 
show that what the PPF wouldve paid Mr A from that age was calculated here, before 
advice was given. Nor have I seen evidence that it accounted for charges that would be 
payable after a transfer. By transferring from the DB scheme Mr A would have to pay the 
fees and charges that are required in order to invest in a personal pension. And those would 
reduce any gains the funds made. Those are not charges he would have had to pay if his 
funds had moved to the PPF. 
And the discount rate was broadly equivalent to the critical yield to match the benefits from 
the PPF, so the scope for gains was small. If his fund had an extended period of poor 
performance or suffered losses he was still likely to be worse off. And Mr A would need to 
put his pension at risk to have the chance of achieving these marginal gains. When asked to 
rank his priorities, Mr A said, increasing the security of his pension was his number one 
priority. Which a transfer didnt achieve. IFMs expected critical yield to match the PPF 
benefits was also above what the pension provider said were the anticipated growth rates of 
the recommended fund. So, overall, I dont think Mr A was likely to be better off by 
transferring compared to what the PPF wouldve offered at age 65.
And, while IFM does not appear to have calculated critical yields for retiring at age 60, in my 
experience critical yields for early retirement tend to be higher than for retiring at the normal 
scheme retirement age. Thats because invested sums have less time to grow and need to 
sustain the personal pension for a longer period. And the discount rate for retiring at 60, fell 
to 4.1%. So, on balance, I think its unlikely that by transferring Mr A couldve improved on 
the benefits hed have been due under his DB scheme at age 60 either. 
IFM included a graph in the recommendation which it said showed that, if 5% growth was 
achieved, Mr A could drawdown an equivalent pension to that the DB scheme wouldve 
offered on a flexible basis and the fund wouldve lasted beyond his average life expectancy. 
But this was based on matching benefits he was already guaranteed while achieving 
consistent growth of 5% was not guaranteed and seemed unlikely based on the discount 
rate and providers estimated growth rates. And this doesnt factor in any periods of losses or 
poor performance.
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think, from a financial viability perspective, that a 
transfer was in Mr As best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration 
when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.Flexibility 
IFMs recommendation said Mr As objective was to transfer his pension to provide him 
greater flexibility when drawing benefits. But this isnt reflected in the fact find. Flexibility and 
control of income in retirement were sixth (out of ten) on Mr As list of priorities. And indeed, 
drawing tax free cash from age 55 was fifth. 
And I think this is also reflected in what was written in the fact find. Mr A wrote that 60 was 
the earliest he would plan to retire but that didnt mean he would want to do so. He said he 
realistically didnt expect to retire until 65. He also said, while he thought it made sense to 
draw tax-free cash at age 55 and clear outstanding debt, he had no real plans for this 
amount. And Mr A has said that the access to tax-free cash that the personal pension was 
something IFM said was a positive of transferring, not one of the reasons he sought advice 
to begin with.
I think its clear from these statements that Mr As plans for retirement were uncertain. And I 
dont think this is surprising. At the time the advice was given, Mr A was only 46. So, it was 
at least nine years until he could think about accessing benefits. And as a result, I dont think 
Mr A required flexibility in retirement in terms of how he could access his benefits, because 
his needs were unknown. Rather this appears to have been a nice to have instead of a 
genuine need.
IFM has said in one of its submissions that, if Mr A had retired at 60, the DB scheme would 
not have met his income needs. But I cant see that Mr As expected income needs in 
retirement were recorded anywhere. And, as Ive already explained, I also cant see that the 
income he couldve received under the PPF or the BSPS2, in monetary terms, was 
calculated. So, I dont agree that this meant he needed flexibility in terms of how he could 
take his benefits  particularly given what he said about him realistically expecting to retire at 
65. And again, I think he was unlikely to improve on his pension benefits by transferring.
And while Mr A indicated he thought accessing tax-free cash at the earliest opportunity to 
repay debts potentially made sense, IFMs role wasnt just to put in place what Mr A mightve 
thought he wanted. It was to advise him on what was in his best interest. 
Mr A and Mrs A seem to have been making repayments to their debts, both unsecured and 
secured, and had disposable income left over. So, there was nothing to suggest the debt 
repayments were unsustainable or that Mr A wouldve had a need to clear these from age 
55. It is also unclear how much wouldve actually remained to be repaid. The fact-find 
indicated their mortgage was due to be cleared shortly after Mr A turned 55, so the balance 
by that time was likely to be relatively modest. And, given they were making repayments, it 
was unclear how much if any of the unsecured debt they had at the time of the advice would 
remain by the time Mr A was able to access tax-free cash. 
Mr A would also have been able to access his new DC pension flexibly from age 55, to 
potentially assist with repaying any remaining residual debt, had he needed to. Based on his 
salary and the level of contributions being made, and before even accounting for growth, 
Mr A increasing his contributions or him being awarded pay rises, this was likely to be worth 
in excess of £76,000. 
As a result, I dont think transferring for the future potential access to tax-free cash flexibly 
was in Mr As interests at the time. And I dont think it was a suitable recommendation or in 
Mr As best interests to make an irreversible decision and give up his guaranteed benefits 
when he did, just to have flexibility that he didnt need. Death benefits
IFM says that the ability to leave his pension fund as a lump sum to his family, in particular 
his children, in the event of his death was something that Mr A was keen on. And this did 
feature prominently in his priorities  ranked second, just behind improving the security of his 
fund. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr A. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr A about what 
was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement, rather than a legacy to the holders estate. And I dont think IFM sufficiently 
explored to what extent Mr A was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits.
Mr As existing pension also provided death benefits  by way of a spouses and dependents 
pension, which were guaranteed, escalated and were not dependent on investment 
performance like the sum remaining on death in a personal pension. So, I think these 
couldve been useful benefits to Mr As family. And while the CETV figure would no doubt 
have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the amount remaining on death following 
a transfer was always likely to be different to that figure  unless Mr A had passed away 
immediately, which was unlikely. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it 
wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr A drew in his lifetime. And given he was 
recorded as being in good health and the intention IFM seems to have based its advice on 
was accessing a quarter of the fund immediately at age 55 and drawing amounts flexibly 
from the pension from age 60, the fund couldve been significantly depleted by the time it 
came to be passed on and may not have provided the legacy that Mr A may have thought.
And if Mr A genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I 
think IFM shouldve instead explored life insurance. Mr A was recorded as being in good 
health. And he had disposable income with which to pay the premiums for an insurance 
policy. Quotes couldve been obtained based on how much Mr A wanted to leave to his 
family. And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which 
was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. But I cant see that IFM considered this.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr A. I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately IFM should not have 
encouraged Mr A to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Control and concerns over the financial stability of the DB scheme
Mr A has said that he sought advice because he was concerned about what moving to the 
PPF might mean for his pension. And, given he noted that his main priority was improving 
the security of his pension, I think this likely was his concern at the time. But I dont think him 
having control over how his pension was invested because of these concerns was a genuine 
objective of his. Mr A was not an experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an 
interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I think a 
desire for control has been overstated.I dont doubt Mr A, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears 
to have been a general mistrust and lack of optimism. I also dont doubt Mr A was potentially 
worried his pension would end up in the PPF or that hed heard negative things about this 
outcome. Its also possible that Mr A was also leaning towards the decision to transfer 
because of his negative perception of the PPF. And Mr A may well have had negative 
feelings towards his employers handling of his pension so far, which I think was a 
reasonable emotional response. But this was why it was even more important for IFM to give 
him objective advice.
The trustees of the pension scheme, and the new BSPS2 were not one and the same as his 
employer. I also note Mr A was continuing to work for the same employer, doesnt appear to 
have any intention to change this and was a member of the employers new DC scheme. So, 
the relationship does not appear to have been broken down to the extent that has been 
suggested.
As Ive explained, by the time of the advice details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed 
likely it was going ahead. The time to choose paperwork was clear that opting into that 
scheme was an option  so, Im satisfied it was envisaged that this would go ahead. And I 
think this shouldve alleviated some of Mr As concerns about the scheme moving to the 
PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that IFM shouldve 
reassured Mr A that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. He 
didnt have confirmed retirement plans but couldve in any event taken benefits early under 
the PPF. While the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, it would still have provided 
a guaranteed income for the rest of his life that was not subject to any investment risk. By 
transferring he was taking on additional risk  despite his main objective being greater 
security. So, this doesnt seem to have fit with his objectives. And, as Ive explained, I dont 
think he was likely to be substantially better off, such that taking this risk was in his interests. 
So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to IFM recommending Mr A transfer out of 
the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
IFM recommended that Mr A invest in particular funds with the chosen pension provider. As 
Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr A, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr A should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and the potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr A. But IFM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr A might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to separate his concerns stemming from the consultation from his genuine needs and 
recommend what was in his best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr A was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income  actually giving him less security which was in 
contrast to his first priority. By transferring, Mr A was very likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer 
and outweigh this. His retirement plans were unconfirmed, so he didnt have a need for 
flexibility at that time. And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with his DB scheme, particularly when alternative methods of 
providing a legacy were potentially available.
So, I think IFM shouldve advised Mr A to remain in their DB scheme.
Mr A was nine years from when he could access retirement benefits and longer still from 
when he reasonably expected to retire. I don't think that it would've been in his interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting 
into the BSPS2, Mr A wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. The spouses pension would also have been more generous 
under the BSPS2 as it would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this 
would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Mr A 
wouldve opted into the BSPS2 had he been correctly advised not to transfer.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr A would've gone ahead anyway, against IFM's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr A wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against IFMs advice. I say this because Mr A was an 
inexperienced investor, was only willing to accept a moderate level of risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if IFM had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr As concerns about the consultation and potential entry into the 
PPF were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional 
adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best 
interests. Particularly if it had been explained that entering the PPF was not as concerning a 
prospect as he mightve believed. So, I dont think Mr A would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think IFM should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that IFM also pay Mr A £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr A has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr A, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given.IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr A and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what IFM based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr A has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr As 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr A redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr A before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr A receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr A accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr A for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr As end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr A as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, IFM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr As likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr A £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr A the balance.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman