DRN-4178255
The complaint
Mr E complains about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (MICL) and the way the 
claim he made on his Motorhome Insurance Policy has been handled.
What happened
Mr E purchased a Motorhome insurance policy via a broker, who Ill refer to as A. The 
policy itself was underwritten by MICL.
Unfortunately, around 21 November 2022, Mr Es motorhome was involved in a road traffic 
accident while abroad. So, he contacted MICL to make a claim on his insurance policy.
It was agreed between MICL and Mr E that he would look to arrange a temporary repair 
while abroad, so he could continue with his holiday in the motorhome. This repair was 
completed and MICL raised a payment, less Mr Es applicable excess, to cover this cost.
Mr E then looked to arrange a permanent repair with a repairer based abroad, who ill refer to 
as B, who had the required parts readily available. And on 19 December, he provided MICL 
with an estimate for these repairs, explaining he needed authorisation by 22 December in 
order to book a repair slot in April 2023, at the end of his holiday.
MICL indicated they would be looking to authorise these repairs. But no official authorisation 
was provided by the date Mr E gave, meaning a repair date couldnt be agreed. Because of 
this, Mr E took the decision to cut his holiday short and return to the UK in January 2023.
Following Mr Es return, MICL offered to pay Mr E a cash in lieu settlement of £3,778.59 to 
organise the repairs himself. This amount was based on the estimate provided by B. Or, they 
explained they could source a new repairer, and look to repair to the cost of the estimate 
they were provided.
Mr E declined this offer. And he explained he would only accept an amount of £5,768.00 
which included the costs hed incur travelling to B to have the repairs completed abroad. 
MICL refused to pay this, and a repairer in the UK was found instead. But Mr E remained 
unhappy overall, so he raised a complaint.
Mr E was unhappy with MICLs failure to authorise Bs repair estimate in December 2022. 
He felt MICLs failure caused him to lose his repair slot due in April 2023 and so, caused him 
to cut his holiday short. So, Mr E wanted to be compensated for this. Mr E was also unhappy 
with how long it had taken MICL to source a repairer in the UK, the way MICL communicated 
with him overall and the fact an excess was taken. 
MICL responded to the complaint and upheld it. They accepted they failed to authorise the 
repairs in December 2022. And, that they failed to communicate effectively with Mr E during 
the claim process, including their failure to call Mr E back when agreed. But they explained 
the excess was payable, in line with the terms of the policy. So, MICL offered to pay Mr E 
£150 to recognise any upset and inconvenience hed been caused. Mr E remained unhappy 
with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They were satisfied that temporary 
repairs had been carried out to the motorhome which meant it was able to be used for the 
full duration of Mr Es intended holiday. So, while they recognised MICLs acceptance that 
they had failed to authorise repairs in December 2022, our investigator thought it was Mr Es 
own decision to cut his holiday short. And so, they didnt think MICL were unfair to reject Mr 
Es request regarding payment of his travel costs.
But they did think Mr E had been unfairly impacted by MICLs actions overall. And they 
recognised Mr E had experienced delays during the claim process and that MICLs 
communication fell below the level wed expect. So, our investigator thought MICL should 
increase their compensatory offer by £100, taking it to £250 overall.
MICL accepted this recommendation. But Mr E didnt. He provided several comments 
explaining why which included, but was not limited to, Mr Es belief that the £250 failed to 
adequately recognise the impact MICLs lack of communication had on him while he was 
abroad. And, how this affected his decision to return to the UK early. Mr E was also unhappy 
that the motor home had not yet been repaired adequately, meaning he was unable to enjoy 
use of it. Mr E maintained his belief that had MICL authorised the repairs when they 
shouldve done, the repairs wouldve been completed by B in April 2023. And so, he wouldnt 
now be left in a situation where a UK repairer has needed to await delivery of parts that B 
wouldve had readily available.
Our investigator considered Mr Es comments, but their opinion remained unchanged. And 
they explained our service is only able to consider the actions of MICL up until their 
complaint response. So, any complaints about events after that date would need to be raised 
separately. Mr E continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. Under the rules we work within, set by the industry 
regulator the Financial Conduct Authority, were unable to consider any issues that havent 
first been raised with a business, in this case MICL, and theyve had up to eight weeks to 
respond within their own complaint process.
So, because of this, Im only able to consider the events that occurred before MICLs final 
response letter to Mr Es complaint, on 3 February 2023. Any complaint about events that 
occurred after this time, such as further delays and the quality of repairs completed would 
need to be directed to MICL separately. Should Mr E remain unhappy with MICLs response, 
he would be able to contact our service and we would consider under a separate complaint 
reference.
I also want to recognise that, in MICLs complaint response, they have already accepted 
their failure to authorise Mr Es repairs in December 2022. And, that the service they 
provided including the way they communicated with Mr E was unreasonable. As MICL have 
already accepted these failures, I think its reasonable for me to assume they are no longer in dispute. So, I wont be discussing the merits of these complaint issues in detail.
But for completeness, I want to confirm that after considering MICLs system notes, and the 
email correspondence provided by Mr E, I think its clear MICL were in receipt of Bs repair 
estimate on 19 December 2022. And, that Mr E made it reasonably clear to MICL he felt he 
required authorisation by 22 December, in order to ensure he confirmed a repair date in April 
2023.
While I think MICL did give an indication they would look to authorise the repairs, their email 
reply stated they would be back in touch with Mr E to confirm this. And, despite chaser 
emails from Mr E on 22 and 23 December, I cant see MICL got back in touch to provide this 
authorisation. So, I do think MICL failed to act reasonably here. And, that this is evidence of 
their failure to communicate with Mr E effectively during the claim process.
So, as Im satisfied MICL did act unfairly and this is accepted, I will instead be focusing on 
the main issues that remain in dispute, which centre around what MICL should do to 
reasonably put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr E back in the position he wouldve 
been in, had MICL acted fairly in the first place.
In this situation, had MICL acted fairly, I think they wouldve most likely been able to provide 
Mr E with authorisation for the repair estimate provided by B, as their email suggested the 
estimate itself was consistent with the repairs needed to permanently repair the damage the 
motorhome sustained.
Had MICL done so, I think MICL wouldve incurred a cost of £3,778.59 or similar, based on 
the exchange rate at the time the invoice was payable. So, Id expect MICL to either arrange 
for the repair Mr Es motorhome or offer Mr E a cash settlement for this amount.
I can see in January 2023, MICL offered both options to Mr E. And after Mr E rejected the 
cash settlement, repairs were arranged with an alternative repairer in the UK. So, I think Mr 
E has been left in the same position he wouldve been in regarding the actual repairs 
themselves.
But I do recognise that MICLs failure to provide authorisation by 22 December 2022 meant 
Mr E was unable to confirm the repair date he felt suited his plans, and Bs availability. And I 
do think this this undoubtedly caused Mr E some upset and inconvenience, as it left him 
unable to plan the remainder of his trip accordingly.
I also think MICLs failure to provide this authorisation, and then communicate with Mr E 
proactively, led Mr E to spend time chasing MICL for an update both abroad and when he 
returned home when he shouldnt have needed to. So, I do think Mr E should be 
compensated for the impact Ive outlined above.
But crucially, I dont think MICL are totally responsible for Mr Es decision to cut his holiday 
short in January 2022. Ive seen Mr Es email to MICL, where he confirmed he intended to 
continue his trip in the motorhome until April 2023, as the temporary repair meant it was safe 
and practical to use. So, I think Mr E was able to continue with his holiday as he intended 
and that it was his own decision to return to the UK when he did. I appreciate how MICLs 
actions may have impacted the decision Mr E made but ultimately, I think it remains that it 
was his own decision to choose this course of action.I also note that in Bs email to Mr E, the repair dates in April appear to have been 
provisional. And while B did ask for authorisation to be provided by 22 December 2022, it 
doesnt confirm what action would be taken if authorisation wasnt provided by this time. I 
think there may have been an opportunity for alternative dates to have been arranged had 
authorisation been provided in January 2023, had Mr E remained abroad. But by choosing to 
return to the UK, I think Mr E removed the availability of this potential option. I also think its 
worth noting that B requested authorisation for a repair within four days of providing an 
estimate which, considering Mr E was in a foreign country with an insurer in the UK, is a 
relatively short period of time.
So, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect MICL to cover the costs Mr E would incur 
to travel back to Bs location, to have a repair completed. And so, I dont think they should be 
expected to compensate Mr E for their stance on this.
I note MICL offered to pay Mr E £150 to recognise the upset and inconvenience he was 
caused. And our investigator recommended a £100 increase, taking the total compensatory 
payment to £250, which MICL agreed. And having considered this increased payment, I 
think it is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve directed 
had it not already been made. 
I think it fairly takes into consideration the frustration and inconvenience MICLs delays and 
lack of communication had on Mr E. And, how these potentially impacted Mr Es decision to 
cut short his holiday due to his inability to put in place a plan for the remainder of his journey, 
and when the repairs could be fitted in conveniently.
But I think it also fairly reflects the fact that it was Mr Es own decision to cut his holiday 
short, when hed already expressed his intention to continue until April 2023. And that MICL 
have since found a repairer and authorised for the permanent repairs to be undertaken.
I think it also considers MICL acting proactively and fairly to ensure temporary repairs were 
authorised and reimbursed, to allow Mr E to continue his trip in November 2022. While an 
excess payment was taken, Id expect an excess to be applicable where a claim has been 
made on an insurance policy. And Im satisfied the excess was charged in line with the 
policy terms and conditions on this occasion.
So, I am directing MICL to pay Mr E a total compensatory payment of £250, as I am of the 
understanding Mr E refused the initial £150 cheque sent to him by MICL following their 
complaint response. If this £150 has been cashed by Mr E, Id expect MICL to pay an 
additional £100 to take the total paid to £250.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr E was hoping for. I want to reassure Mr E Ive 
considered all of the comments and information hes provided even if its not been 
commented on directly, including his detailed explanation of how he has been impacted. But 
for the reasons Ive listed above, I think a total offer of £250 is a fair one on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Es complaint about Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr E a total of £250 compensation to recognise the upset and inconvenience 
hes been caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman