DRN-1986484
The complaint
Mr H says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
From now on Ill just refer to Santander in my decision as it is responsible for dealing with 
this complaint. 
What happened
In 1990, Mr H took out a mortgage. 
Its not clear how or when he took out PPI, but records show that by 1993 he was paying for 
this insurance. He paid a monthly amount for the policy and it protected his mortgage 
repayments if he couldnt work.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs mis-selling complaint. Mr H disagrees. 
Mr H mainly says that hes certain the policy was taken out along with the mortgage and so it 
wouldve been discussed as part of the mortgage deal in relation to the lender being willing  
to offer the mortgage. He also feels it was strongly recommended to him but that the terms 
werent properly explained  especially the qualifying period before he could make an 
unemployment claim.
The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Neither Mr H nor Santander could provide any documents from the sale so Ive seen nothing 
signed by Mr H. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, 
given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt expect 
Santander or Mr H to have kept this.   
And I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr H arranged this mortgage or took out 
the PPI. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect him to recall in detail what was said at the time 
after so long. This means I cant uphold his complaint just based on what Mr H says. 
I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. In order to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint Id have to be able to say that its likely he wasnt given a fair choice about PPI or 
that it was added to the mortgage account without his consent. 
Its not clear when the PPI started. But information Ive seen indicates that the first premium 
Mr H paid for it was in 1993. That makes me think that its likely he took out the PPI after the 
mortgage started  perhaps when he was making changes on his mortgage account. In 
those circumstances, I think he wouldve understood at the time that having PPI was optional 
because his mortgage had been set up without PPI around three years earlier. 
And even if Mr H had been sold PPI alongside his mortgage in 1990, this doesnt change the 
outcome because I still havent seen enough to be able to uphold his complaint. 
I say this because Mr H told us he remembered filling in a leaflet to have PPI. Looking at the 
paperwork I think he wouldve had to fill in to get PPI added on to his mortgage, this required 
him to say what monthly benefit he wanted to have and he wouldve had to complete a 
separate direct debit instruction to his bank to pay for it. 
Mr H has told us he doesnt feel that it was made clear the mortgage was optional, because 
the policy leaflet says it was strongly recommended to take out PPI. But thats not wording 
that wouldve been used if Mr H didnt have any choice about taking it out  and it doesnt 
say anywhere that applicants had to take out PPI. 
Overall, I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me to say that Santander didnt make 
it clear that it was open to Mr H not to choose PPI if he didnt want to have it, just based on 
what he says now. 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment and his home wouldve been at risk if the 
mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, I can see why Mr H mightve felt PPI was 
useful to have. I can completely understand why Mr H mightve forgotten this now. But, on 
balance, I think its more likely that Mr H was persuaded of the need to protect his home by 
taking out the PPI offered and it was added to his account when he decided to buy the 
policy.  
Because its unclear how the PPI was sold, to be as fair as possible to Mr H, Santander 
looked at his complaint on the basis that it recommended the PPI to Mr H. If a business 
makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information 
in a clear way. Additionally, it also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable. 
PPI seems to have been right for Mr H based on what Ive seen of his circumstances. The 
likely policy that applied wouldve covered his mortgage repayments for significantly longer 
than he told us he couldve expected to receive sick pay from his employer if he couldnt 
work  up to 36 months per claim. 
And it wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits providing a useful benefit at what 
couldve been a difficult time. 
The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months if Mr H lost his job and was 
unexpectedly unemployed. 
I dont know if Mr H wouldve always had savings to rely on if he wasnt able to work.
During 1993 Mr H told us he became self-employed. But this didnt make the policy 
unsuitable for him because I dont think his changed employment circumstances wouldve 
made it particularly difficult for him to make a claim. It wouldnt have been any harder for him 
to make an unemployment claim than it wouldve been for someone who was employed. The period he had to wait before making an unemployment claim wasnt unusual for this sort 
of policy and it isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. And it doesnt look as if he was 
affected by any of the other main conditions that mightve limited the policys benefits to him.
So, looking at his circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable for him. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr H when he took it out. But, from what Ive 
seen, Mr H hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums  and he appears 
to have been happy to pay for the cover he selected when he applied for the policy and 
signed an instruction to his bank to pay for it. Mr H couldve cancelled the policy at any time 
if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay for it. 
Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr H still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if hed been better informed as it 
gave him useful protection in his particular situation.
I dont find that Mr H has lost out as a result of anything Santander mightve done wrong. 
This means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman