DRN-1252249
 
The complaint
Mr A complains about what happened when he asked The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) 
to make a chargeback request for him.
What happened
Mr A booked a room and paid for it using his Co-op debit card. The business wouldnt let him 
stay, because he didnt have the sort of ID it wanted. But it still charged him. 
Mr A asked Co-op to get the money back. It said it wouldnt. Mr A complained about that, 
and about how Co-op handled the dispute. He didnt think it shouldve written to him asking 
him to discuss the case, when it had already decided what the outcome would be.
Co-op said it wasnt able to help Mr A. Hed paid for a service where the merchant was clear 
that it required ID to be provided, and what sort of ID was acceptable. Mr A didnt have that. 
The merchant had been clear that in those circumstances he would be charged. Co-op said 
that because the merchant had just done what it said it would, it had no grounds to dispute 
the charge for Mr A. 
Co-op didnt think it had done anything wrong by writing to Mr A to ask him to get in touch 
about the chargeback. It said that was so it could discus the case and the reasons for its 
rejection of the dispute. And to give Mr A the chance to add any further information. 
Co-op didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said banks dont have to 
raise a chargeback if they feel that theres little chance of it being successful. She didnt think 
Co-op had been unfair. 
Mr A didnt agree, he still thought Co-op ought to return his money. Because he didnt agree 
with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A asked Co-op to help him get his money back. To do that, Co-op would make a 
chargeback request, where it would ask the business bank to give the money back. 
Banks dont run the chargeback scheme themselves, its set up by the card scheme 
operator, whose symbol is on Mr As card. That card scheme operator makes the rules. 
Banks dont make them, and they cant change them. Banks have to pay for the chargeback scheme. Co-op doesnt pass that cost on to Mr A. So 
it might not be fair and reasonable to expect Co-op to make a chargeback request, if there 
isnt any real chance of it succeeding.  
I think thats what happened here. Co-op checked the business website. It said the business 
had done what it said it would do. So it didnt think Mr As chargeback could succeed. In 
those circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable or unfair for Co-op to say it wouldnt 
make the request.
Co-op gave Mr A an opportunity, when it wrote to him on 11 June, to talk to it about that. Mr 
A replied in writing instead, asking what more Co-op wanted to know. I havent seen 
anything to make me think that if Mr A had talked to Co-op at this point, the outcome 
wouldve been different. I dont think Co-op did anything wrong when it then replied to say 
that it wasnt going to go ahead with his chargeback request.
I know Mr A will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman