DRN-3329853
The complaint
In summary, Miss W is unhappy that Highway Insurance Company Limited accepted liability 
and settled a third-party claim in respect of a motor accident she was involved in. In 
particular, she doesnt think it considered her evidence. 
What happened
Miss W was involved in a motor accident in November 2020. She told Highway that she had 
dash cam footage of the incident. 
Miss W discovered that a third-party claim had been settled by Highway in respect of the 
incident. This had increased her insurance premium.  
In response to Miss Ws complaint, Highway explained it only received details from her 
broker in November 2021. It said it explained that as she had pulled out from a side road, the 
other driver would have had the right of way, and it would have had to have dealt with the 
third-party claim. It apologised that she wasnt informed of the third-party claim and sent her 
a cheque for £75 by way of compensation.  
Miss Ws concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. She didnt uphold her 
complaint and explained why she didnt think Highway had done anything wrong in deciding 
to settle the claim. 
Miss W didnt agree so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my findings that are set out below, I wont necessarily have addressed every point or 
argument the parties have made. I mean no disrespect by not having done so, but in 
reaching my findings and conclusions in this case, I have focussed on the issues and 
evidence that I think are key for me to decide this case. However, I want to reassure Miss W 
and Highway that I have carefully thought about everything they have said and provided me 
with.
The claims information section of Miss Ws policy document provided Highway with the 
authority to take over and conduct the defence or settlement any claim. But in doing so it still 
had to exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way. 
In considering the issue of liability, its not for me to determine who was responsible for the 
accident. That is a matter for the courts to decide. But I can consider if Highway acted fairly 
in how it investigated the issue of liability and whether it reached a reasonable decision in 
respect of this, based on the available evidence. 
Liability
Looking at the available evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable of Highway to have dealt 
with the issue of liability in the way that it did. I say this because the accident report records 
that Miss W was pulling out of a T junction onto a main road. 
I do understand Miss W feels strongly that the accident wasnt her fault and that the third-
party driver didnt have right of way. And I can understand that she wanted her dash cam 
footage to be viewed by Highway. But given the information available to Highway, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of it to have settled the claim in the way it did. 
I think taking into account the circumstances of the accident, Highway may well have thought 
it would be difficult to defend the claim on a no-fault basis. And even if the claim had been 
settled on a split liability basis, I think its likely that this could still have affected Miss Ws 
insurance premiums.
As Ive said, Im not making any findings on liability, that isnt my role. But given what 
evidence is available I dont think based on the information Highway had, that it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in making that decision in respect of the issue of liability.  
In its response to Miss W, Highway accepted that it hadnt updated her that a third-party 
claim had been made. It offered her £75 compensation to recognise the lack of service. I 
think this is sufficient for the poor service Highway provided, and I dont think it needs to do 
any more.
My final decision
Highway Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that if the cheque Highway sent Miss W hasnt already been deposited by 
her, then Highway Insurance Company Limited should pay her £75 if she accepts my 
decision. If this has already been paid and accepted by Miss W, then it doesnt need to do 
anything else. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman