DRN-2547902
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard for having 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr A was accepted for a Barclaycard credit card in December 2015 with a credit limit of 
£800. In 2019 his financial position worsened as he became reliant on payday loans and 
was unable to meet the minimum monthly payment on his Barclaycard. 
Mr A complained to Barclaycard as he felt the decision to accept his credit card application 
was irresponsible as he had several payday loans prior to opening this account. He wanted 
Barclaycard to remove any adverse markers from his credit file. 
Barclaycard say they considered the information on the application form and carried out 
checks which confirmed the credit card was affordable. They also say the payday loans were 
paid on time which wouldnt give them concern to lend, so did not uphold the complaint.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator took the view that Mr A was 
treated fairly. They said that Barclaycard used all of the information available to them at the 
time of the application and Mr A was able to make payments to the account for a number of 
years before experiencing financial difficulties. On that basis Barclaycard were entitled to 
lend to Mr A and did so fairly.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator and raised a number of follow up questions which the 
investigator answered but Mr A wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard are entitled to decide who to lend to and, if theyre wiling to lend, how much and 
on what terms. What Barclaycard need to have done before lending to Mr A, is to have made 
proportionate and reasonable checks to see whether the credit card was affordable and 
sustainable for him.  
Barclaycard have provided affordability checks they performed at the application stage and 
shown that they validated Mr As annual income of £16,000. They then say they considered 
this information alongside credit checks to look at whether he could afford the card. The 
credit checks would enable them to see payments made to other providers were being 
made, the amount of monthly payments and whether these were paid on time. Having made 
these checks  Barclaycard were satisfied Mr A could afford the card even if he had other 
unsecured debt. 
The circumstances here would suggest this was a fair assessment. I say this as Mr A was 
able to afford repayments to the card for over three years. Thats a long time to have been 
able to make payments if it wasnt affordable. If there was any reason that Mr A was 
struggling to make the payments, then it would be reasonable to expect him to contact 
Barclaycard so they could provide assistance, but this doesnt appear to have happened 
until StepChange were involved several years after the credit card was opened. 
The credit limit on Mr As Barclaycard stayed the same from account opening and Mr A had 
been making monthly payments to his account. These factors would all support that the 
decision that Barclaycard made was a reasonable and proportionate one in the 
circumstances. 
I have taken into account the point raised by Mr A of how Barclaycard gave credit when he 
has a history of payday loans. But Barclaycard will have seen one active payday loan at the 
point of application. So while these would have been present to Barclaycard, they would 
have shown that Mr A was able to settle these debts. These factors wouldnt suggest that Mr 
A would necessarily struggle with payments he would need to make towards his 
Barclaycard. And that is supported by the fact that he didnt obviously struggle to make 
payments on his Barclaycard for a number of years. 
Ive considered what Mr A said to our investigator regarding rules around payday lending. 
Those rules apply specifically to certain types of borrowing, rather than the Barclaycard here, 
so it wouldnt be fair to view the credit card in that context.  Instead, Ive had regard for these 
points, but also looked at all the circumstances here. And in considering all of these factors I 
think that was a decision it reached fairly in the circumstances. So it follows I wont be asking 
Barclaycard to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman