DRN-3635896
The complaint
Mr K says American Express Services Europe Limited auto-enrolled him for online 
statements, so he was unaware his account was overdue until he received a text.  
What happened
Mr K says he made a late payment as he does not use his card frequently and so was not 
aware of what was owing, and he wasnt sent statements. He wants all adverse data 
removing from his credit file and compensation for the frustration and inconvenience caused.
Amex explained that during the pandemic it moved account holders to paperless 
statementing. It sent an email explaining this, and giving an opt-out option. Each month it 
sent a statement ready email to remind Mr K to view his statement online. And it had not 
reported any adverse data to the credit reference agency(ides) as the amount owing was 
below its minimum reporting threshold.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said he was satisfied Amex had met is 
obligation to send Mr K monthly statements and to the right email. It had notified Mr K when 
it was moving his account to paperless billing and he had not opted out. He confirmed Mr Ks 
credit report had not been affected by his arrears, nor had Amex applied any charges.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr K asked for an ombudsmans review. He said he had now 
wasted even more time as Amex had not made clear in its final response letter that it had not 
recorded adverse information on his credit file.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint, Ill explain why. But first I want to 
respond to Mr Ks comment about our impartiality. We are an independent and impartial 
organisation and we do not act on behalf of banks or consumers - it is not in our interest to 
find in favour of one party over the other.
I am satisfied Amex billed Mr K as it is required to. I note he was unaware he needed to 
check his statements online, but I find Amex had done what it ought to make him aware of 
this, both at the time of the switch from paper, and on a monthly basis. So there was no 
reason he shouldnt have known what he owed and made the minimum payment as he is 
contractually obliged to.
As the amount owing was below Amexs credit file reporting threshold Mr Ks arrears were 
not reported  but to be clear, Amex would have been entitled to do so if it had a different 
reporting policy. 
I do however think it would have been preferable if it had confirmed to Mr K that this was the 
case when it replied to his complaint. Its letter does read as though it had reported the 
arrears, and would not be requesting any credit file amendment. But this point relates to 
Amexs complaint handling, and this is not something we have the power to investigate as it 
is not a regulated activity. So I have to leave it for Amex to decide if it wishes to apologise to   
Mr K for this confusion. Mr K has also referenced the time he feels he has wasted raising 
this complaint, but we do not make compensatory awards for the time involved in bringing a 
complaint.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman