DRN-1989711
The complaint
Mr H complains about his mobile phone insurance claim with Assurant General Insurance 
Limited (AGI).
What happened
Mr H has mobile phone insurance underwritten by AGI. He purchased his insurance as part 
of a tech pack through his bank. In September 2019, Mr H made a claim as his mobile 
phone was faulty. He paid £75 excess and received a replacement phone which was an 
upgraded model but was refurbished.
Subsequently, Mr H had problems with the phone. He found the battery was faulty, and this 
happened with a second replacement. He was then sent a third replacement phone in 
December 2019.
Mr H has complained for the following reasons:
The excess should be £50 as listed in the terms and conditions when he logs on to 
his policy online.
He shouldve received a new phone, not a used replacement that wasnt fit for 
purpose.
It was unacceptable that he was sent phones of poor quality, and his last phone 
wasnt delivered in the time frame he was given.
 
AGI explained that Mr H has a standard tech pack, and the excess of £75 is correct. It also 
said it gave him a replacement phone in line with the terms of his policy and replaced the 
phones that had battery issues. AGI gave Mr H £50 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by the issues replacing the phones.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He explained that the terms of Mr Hs policy  
which is a standard tech pack  show that £75 excess is payable and that the replacement 
phone may be refurbished. He explained that AGI replaced each phone when Mr H found 
there were issues. And that it hadnt breached its policy terms. He felt the £50 compensation 
was fair for the issues in the replacement phones.
Mr H disagreed. He said that he has a Premier account and believes he has a premier tech 
pack. He explained that these are the terms that should apply and his excess should be 
£50. He also believes that he should be receiving higher compensation for the poor phone 
replacements. As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy excessMr H has said throughout this complaint that the terms he can see are different to the terms 
AGI are applying to his claim. Mr H says he has a premier bank account and has a premier 
tech pack. Hes said theres no evidence to say he doesnt have a premier tech pack and 
because of this, he believes AGI has applied the wrong terms.
Mr H has provided evidence to show he has a premier bank account, but that doesnt say he 
has a premier tech pack. I can see hes able to view the premier tech pack terms when 
logging into his account, but hes not provided anything to show he has a premier tech pack, 
or that he couldnt view the standard tech pack terms when logging in.
AGI has provided a letter Mr H was sent with the details of the gadgets registered for the 
policy. This says he has a tech pack. There is no mention that the tech pack is a premier 
tech pack. Ive also seen the screenshots from AGIs system which shows which policy Mr H 
has, and the excess applicable. I can see its the tech pack with an excess of £75.
The terms under the standard tech pack say that the excess for a claim is £75. This is what 
AGI asked Mr H to pay and I cant see this was incorrect. The evidence provided shows Mr 
H has a tech pack, not a premier tech pack as Mr H has said. So, I dont think AGI has 
charged Mr H the incorrect excess amount.
Phone replacements
Mr Hs policy terms say:
Where we replace the device the replacement may be a remanufactured (not brand new) 
device.
So, whilst I understand Mr H would like a brand new device as a replacement, his policy 
does allow for refurbished devices to be provided. In this case that is what happened, and I 
dont think AGI has breached the policy terms by doing this.
Mr Hs first replacement phone had some battery deterioration. He complained about this to 
AGI. I agree with Mr H that its unacceptable for a replacement phone to be faulty. However, 
in these situations Id expect AGI to replace the phone. This is what it did. When it sent a 
replacement phone it explained that it would be covered under warranty for a year. So, when 
Mr H found an issue, AGI replaced it. Its very unfortunate that the next replacement also 
had some battery faults. But, once again this was replaced as soon as it was brought to 
AGIs attention. And I dont think that AGI was aware there were issues with the phones 
before these were sent to Mr H as they had passed its quality control process.
I do think that the number of replacements wouldve been very frustrating to Mr H. Especially 
as there was a mix up with the delivery times as well. But I can see AGI has paid Mr H £50 
for the trouble and upset this caused. I think this is fair. Having to go through any insurance 
claim will always cause some level of inconvenience. Particularly if the replacement phones 
are faulty. But I can see AGI did everything it could to replace these as soon as it was 
notified there was a problem. So, I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Charlotte WilsonOmbudsman