DRN-4332534
The complaint
Mr G complains about the repairs Fairmead Insurance Limited carried out following a 
subsidence claim he made on his home insurance policy.
Reference to Fairmead includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
In 2020, Fairmead accepted a subsidence claim for crack damage in the kitchen of 
Mr Gs home. It carried out repairs in July 2021.
In February 2022, Mr G noticed cracks appearing in the kitchen ceiling. Fairmead 
inspected the damage and said it wasnt related to subsidence  it was the result of 
roof spread and thermal movement.
Mr G brought a complaint to this Service. Fairmead agreed to carry out a more 
thorough inspection and consider whether its repairs were of satisfactory quality.
This inspection was carried out in February 2023. Fairmead maintained its position.
Mr G brought a second complaint to this Service. Our investigator thought Fairmead 
had acted fairly because there was no evidence to show the recent cracking had 
been caused by subsidence and/or poor repairs by Fairmead. She asked Fairmead 
to pay a total of £300 compensation for delays reaching this position.
An agreement wasnt reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, Ill only be considering Mr Gs second complaint  which was 
answered by Fairmead in May 2023.
Theres no dispute the original damage was covered by the policy. The claim was 
accepted and Fairmead carried out repairs to put the damage right.
Around six months later, cracking appeared in the kitchen, where the repairs had 
been carried out. As a result, Mr G didnt think the repair was lasting and effective.
If the recent cracking showed continued subsidence movement and/or that the 
repairs carried out by Fairmead werent lasting and effective, I would likely require it 
to take steps to put that right. If the cracking is unrelated to those things, and not 
covered by the policy in its own right, then I wouldnt expect Fairmead to do anything 
further. So Ive considered the available evidence about the cracking.
The only evidence I have is from Fairmeads loss adjuster. They visited twice after 
the recent cracking appeared, including the February 2023 inspection. They said they 
observed no sign of subsidence related cracking and that the problem was roof 
spread and/or thermal movement  neither of which is covered by the policy.
I havent seen any other opinion from a building professional to challenge these 
findings. So Im satisfied its reasonable for Fairmead to rely on them.
Whilst I know Mr G had his reservations that the original scope of repair to the 
kitchen was sufficient, that was considered by the loss adjuster at the time. And it 
doesnt necessarily show the recent cracking is related to the subsidence problem 
and/or the repairs.
Mr G is entitled to take his own professional advice about the matter if he wishes. I 
understand thats something hes considering. If he does, hes entitled to share the 
findings with Fairmead and Id expect it to consider whether that changes its position.
Overall, based on the currently available evidence, Im satisfied Fairmeads position 
that it wont take any further action is reasonable.
Its taken a long time to reach this position and Fairmead accepts there have been 
unnecessary delays. Mr G was understandably concerned about the cracking, so I 
think the delay has caused him avoidable distress waiting to find out Fairmeads 
position. Im satisfied £300 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman