DRN-3696265
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society restricted his credit card while he was 
abroad, even though he called to tell Nationwide of his trip prior to his departure.
What happened
Mr P called Nationwide to let them know he was going abroad and was intending to use his 
credit card while he was there. Nationwide told Mr P that he didnt need to make them aware 
that hed be using his card abroad prior to making his trip, as their fraud detection system is 
designed to monitor credit card holders spend, regardless of where they are in the world.
Nationwide restricted the use of Mr Ps card on 4 May 2022 following an online card 
verification transaction. They attempted to call Mr P and sent SMS messages, but they 
couldnt contact him. So, they sent a letter to Mr P on 5 May 2022 asking him to contact 
them.
Mr P says he attempted to call Nationwide on 5 May 2022 about the restriction on his card, 
but says he was on hold for too long waiting to speak with someone, so he wasnt able to 
complete the call. He says this resulted in him having to resort to using the cash he took with 
him, as well as having to get money wired over to him. Mr P called Nationwide again on     
16 May 2022 where he completed the relevant security checks and confirmed the credit card 
activity that Nationwide questioned was genuine. 
Mr P complained to Nationwide as he was unhappy that despite advising them of his travels, 
his card was restricted, and that contacting him by phone wasnt sufficient when he was 
abroad. Nationwide responded by explaining that customers no longer need to notify them of 
their travel plans, as their fraud prevention system will continue to monitor the customers 
account(s). They said that should any activity trigger their fraud detection rules they have in 
place; theyll place the account into a secure state until they receive confirmation the activity 
is genuine. Nationwide also pointed out that the terms and conditions of his account allow 
them to act reasonably and refuse a transaction if theyre concerned about a potential 
fraudulent transaction.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr P contacted our service to further his complaint. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint and explained the need for Nationwide 
to have such processes in place to protect their customers from fraud. So, he didnt think 
theyd acted inappropriately by taking the actions that they did. 
Mr P rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. He said it shouldnt 
be a system thats making decisions about people's transactions. So, the case has been 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but Ive reached the same overall conclusions 
as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Nationwide have sent me a copy of the account terms and conditions and theres nothing 
that says customers need to inform them of any travel plans. So, Mr P wasnt required to 
contact Nationwide about using his card abroad. And even though Nationwide were on 
notice of Mr Ps trip, they still had an obligation to keep his account safe.
Under the account terms and conditions, Nationwide can block payments from an account 
and/or suspend account services if they believe this is necessary for security reasons, or to 
prevent suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use of an account. Mr P agreed to be bound 
by these terms and conditions when opening his account.
Following Mr Ps attempt to make an online payment using his credit card abroad, 
Nationwide placed a restriction on Mr Ps account. However, it seems that Mr P assumed 
that his card was completely blocked as he says the block meant he had to use cash and get 
his sister to send money over to him. But Nationwide have confirmed that they only restricted 
card not present spend (online payments). This meant Mr P would still have been able to 
use CHIP and PIN to make purchases and make cash withdrawals. So, Im persuaded that 
Mr P wouldve been able to use his card even though Nationwide had placed a restriction on 
the account.
Mr P says he doesnt think Nationwide went far enough in their attempts to contact him 
about the restriction they placed on his account. Nationwide have confirmed that currently 
the procedure is that their automated system will attempt to contact a customer by SMS 
and/or a call. And if this isnt successful, a letter is automatically sent to advise of the 
restriction. Nationwide have shown me evidence that they sent SMS messages, called, and 
sent Mr P a letter about the account restriction. So, I find that the attempts Nationwide made 
to contact Mr P were reasonable.
Nationwide have confirmed that they didnt receive any calls from Mr P until 16 May 2022, 
when he called and got the card restriction lifted. I appreciate that Mr P called Nationwide on 
5 May 2022 and says that it was a long wait on hold, meaning he had to end the call due to 
data charges on his mobile. But from looking at the call logs Mr P has given me for 5 May 
2022, I can see he received a call to his mobile four minutes after his call to Nationwide. So, 
considering the concerns Mr P had raised by having to use cash and get money sent to him, 
I wouldve expected him to have waited longer to speak to Nationwide due to the urgent 
nature of his call. And had he done so, Im persuaded the matter wouldve been resolved at 
this point.
It wasnt until 16 May 2022, 12 days after the restriction was placed on Mr Ps account, that 
he called Nationwide to confirm that the transaction was genuine, and the restrictions were 
lifted. Had Mr P been that concerned and inconvenienced by not being able to use his card, I 
wouldve expected him to have contacted Nationwide much sooner. Because of this, I dont 
find that Nationwide were at fault for the length of time it took to remove the restrictions from 
Mr Ps card. Had the restrictions been severely inconveniencing Mr P, I find thats its more 
likely than not he wouldve made further attempts to contact Nationwide immediately 
following the restriction being placed on his card.
Overall, I do sympathise with the situation Mr P found himself in. But the nature of bank 
security checks means that while they will cause some inconvenience to some customers 
from time to time. They are there to protect customers accounts. And I dont find that 
Nationwide did anything wrong by temporarily suspending Mr Ps account for card not 
present transactions after their fraud detection system flagged potential security issues.So, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, I wont be telling Nationwide to take any further action 
in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman