DRN-2414790
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited caused damage to their 
home following an escape of water claim against their home emergency insurance policy. 
Reference to Admiral include its agents.
What happened 
In April 2019, Mr and Mrs M noticed water coming through their kitchen ceiling. So they 
raised a claim with Admiral by phone. Admiral said no trace and access was covered by the 
policy, however Mr M managed to source the leak underneath the flooring upstairs and 
made access for the engineer. 
An engineer arrived later that day and said the leak was on the cold water pipe. They said 
pipework above the leak needed to be cut away in order to do the repair. The engineer said 
they replaced the leaking pipe using compression fittings. 
Mr and Mrs M said the engineer used a tool to increase the notch in the joist. But they 
slipped whilst doing this which caused a high volume of water to escape, causing the ceiling 
to collapse. They said the engineer tried to soak up the water by applying pressure to the 
area with towels which they think also contributed to the ceiling collapsing. The engineer 
taped up the damaged ceiling area, but this fell down shortly after they left. 
Mr and Mrs M went on holiday the day the leak occurred. They came home a week later to 
find the heating wasnt working. So, they contacted Admiral again. 
A different engineer came out and said a part was required. They ordered it and went back a 
few days later to fit it. Though they also had to cut away part of the upstairs flooring to 
complete it. The engineer also reported that the first repair had issues. 
Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint to Admiral about poor workmanship. They said the first 
engineer caused substantial damage to their home, leaving them and their children 
potentially at risk of asbestos exposure. They were also unhappy a different engineer 
damaged the flooring upstairs. 
There was a delay with Admiral responding to the complaint. When they did, they said 
damage had already been caused by the emergency  before the engineer arrived  which 
the policy doesnt cover. They said their engineer didnt make a mistake and dealt with the 
claim by completing a temporary repair. The claim was then resolved with a permanent 
repair after Mr and Mrs M reported further issues. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this. They said their son saw the engineer slip and cause a leak. 
They think Admiral should cover the repair costs and pay compensation. So, they brought 
their complaint to our service for consideration. 
An investigator here looked into their complaint. He felt there wasnt enough evidence to say 
the engineer caused damage to their home. He was more persuaded that damage had 
already been caused to Mr and Mrs Ms home by the emergency. 
He felt Admiral acted reasonably by carrying out a permanent repair which is over what the 
policy entitled Mr and Mrs M to. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They said there was only a small drip of water coming through 
the ceiling before the engineer arrived. They maintain the engineer made a mistake which 
caused substantial damage to their home. 
I issued my provisional decision on 3 December 2020 and my findings are set out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my current thinking here
is this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
My starting point is Mr and Mrs Ms policy. This covers them for, amongst other things,
temporary repairs to their home in an emergency. The policy says:
5. how we will settle your claim
We will only pay for the emergency repair and will not pay for any damage
            caused by the emergency
This means Admiral will only cover the costs of completing a temporary repair in an
emergency, and not the costs of repairing any damage caused by the emergency itself.
It appears there are two key issues for me to decide. The first is the extent of the damage
caused by the emergency, before the engineer arrived. The second is whether the engineer
caused further damage to their home.
To answer the first issue, I listened to the call that took place in April 2019 between Mrs M
and Admiral. This was the first call made to report the emergency. During the call, Mrs M
said theyd woken up to find water leaking through the kitchen ceiling. There was also a
damp area upstairs, and Mrs M said she was worried the ceiling would collapse.
Mrs M later said water was only dripping through the light before the engineer arrived and
started works. But once they started, the ceiling fell down.
I appreciate how important this matter is to Mr and Mrs M. Its difficult here to establish
exactly what happened given there are conflicting testimonies present. So, what I must do is
make my decision based on what is available, and what I think is most likely to have
happened.
The first call Mrs M made gives me an indication of what was happening before the engineer
arrived. And its clear to me there was enough damage present to concern Mrs M their
ceiling was at risk of collapsing. Its very difficult to say whether the engineer caused further
damage. But what I can be sure of here is damage was already present which required
repair, which Admiral wasnt responsible for under the policy.
I can see Mr and Mrs M had repairs to the ceiling carried out in February 2020. The work
required was to remove and replace the water damaged section of the ceiling. I can see Mr
and Mrs M have accidental damage cover in place, so if theyd like to see if the ceilingrepairs can be claimed for under that, they ought to ask Admiral.
So, Im currently minded to say Im more persuaded that substantial damage had already
been caused by the emergency, meaning Mr and Mrs M wouldve had to carry out repairs in
any event. As above, the policy doesnt cover these costs.
Admiral said their engineer took photos of the damaged area before and after he undertook
any work. I know Mr and Mrs M dispute these and asked for the metadata which would show
the time these were taken. Ive given this a lot of thought, but because Im currently more
persuaded that damage occurred prior to Admirals engineer undertaking work, Ive not
considered these photos further.
I also appreciate the first engineer may have mentioned a potential issue of asbestos
exposure. I can see why this concerned Mr and Mrs M, particularly as I understand young
children also live in the home. As no asbestos risk assessment has been carried out to my
knowledge, Im unable to make a finding on whether theyve been exposed or not. That said,
again I do appreciate their concern here.
Whilst I currently dont think I could fairly hold Admiral responsible for all the damage caused
to their home, I do think there are aspects of the claim that couldve been handled better. Not
least because they had to make multiple call outs.
I note, the second engineer said a small weep was found on the compression fitting, which
was unsuitable for this type of repair. Also, once the second engineer restored the heating,
further visits were needed to complete a repair.
Mr and Mrs M said the engineers that came out after the first visit were critical of the work
undertaken during the first visit. Ive looked at the claim notes and the job reports given by
the other engineers, and I think its fair to say the work they undertook was likely as a result
of the standard of work carried out during the first visit.
I have no doubt this wouldve caused Mr and Mrs M to experience a level of distress and
inconvenience, beyond whats reasonably expected following an escape of water. So, I think
Admiral should compensate Mr and Mrs M to recognise this.
Admiral did act promptly to further call-outs and sent engineers to their home within a
reasonable time. But I think its likely the standard of repairs caused further, and otherwise
unnecessary, visits to Mr and Mrs Ms home. So, I currently think Admiral should pay them
£250 compensation to put matters right.
My provisional decision 
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I plan to uphold Mr and Mrs 
Ms complaint. I intend to require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay them £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The responses to my provisional decision 
Both Mr and Mrs M and Admiral responded to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M said 
they had nothing further to add, and Admiral accepted what I provisionally set out. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I set out my provisional decision, I said that unless any further information from Mr 
and Mrs M or Admiral changes my mind, my final decision would read along the lines I 
provisionally set out. 
As neither Mr and Mrs M or Admiral gave further information, my view on the matter remains 
the same as what I set out on 3 December 2020. So, for the reasons set out within my 
provisional decision, I think Admiral should pay Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter caused them. I now require Admiral to pay this to 
them. 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman