DRN-2370725
The complaint
Miss G has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds service following a
claim on her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Miss G was in an accident. Both Miss G and the other driver blamed each other for it. 
Advantage insured both drivers.
Both drivers put in a claim. Advantage repaired Miss Gs car. But she was unhappy with a
number of aspects of Advantages service. Amongst other things Miss G complained that
Advantage initially told her she wouldn't have to pay her excess. But she did have to pay it.
She also complained that Advantage didn't follow up to see if CCTV had caught any footage
of the incident, which could have proved the other driver was at fault. It then told her to do so
would be a waste of manpower. And it said that because it couldn't say who was to blame
for the accident, it would hold her 50% liable.
Advantage upheld Miss Gs complaint. To put things right it told her that her no claims
discount (NCD) wouldn't be affected by the accident. It refunded half of her excess and paid
£150 compensation. So in total it paid her £425. Miss G didn't think that went far enough and
brought her complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 November 2020. For ease Ive copied the relevant 
extracts below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its response to Miss Gs complaint Advantage acknowledged that it didn't handle matters
as well as it would like. So what I need to decide now is whether or not its done enough to
make amends for its errors.
Advantage initially told Miss G that as she wasn't to blame for the accident she wouldn't
have to pay her excess. But that advice was wrong. Like most motor policies Im aware of
Miss Gs policy required her to pay her excess for any claim she makes. So Miss G was
always going to be required to pay her excess even if she wasn't at fault.
There might be occasions, when liability isn't disputed, where insurers might not charge an
excess. But thats a discretionary decision and not something the policy will entitle the
policyholder to. And in this case liability was disputed. So, Advantage was wrong to tell
Miss G she wouldn't have to pay her excess initially. And in doing so it unreasonably raised
her expectations and gave her the impression the excess was only payable if she was at
fault.
Further, I can understand Miss Gs frustration with Advantages handling of the liability
dispute. She knew she wasn't at fault for the accident. And she said the other driver admitted
liability at the scene. But he then changed his mind when he spoke with Advantage. Clearly
its not Advantages fault the other driver changed his story. But what it needed to do was
investigate the matter thoroughly, so it could come to a fair conclusion on who was most
likely to blame for the accident. I don't think it did that reasonably.
Miss G told Advantage the scene of the accident was covered by CCTV. But Advantage
didn't do anything to try to recover this footage. Instead it told her doing so was a waste of
manpower. It later acknowledged that it should have asked for the CCTV images, which
would most likely have proved Miss G wasn't to blame for the accident. But, by that time, the
footage was no longer available. Advantage then told her that because it didn't have that
footage it would hold her 50% responsible for the claim. As I've said above, I can understand
how immensely frustrating Miss G found that.
Advantage did go some way to address the impact of its mistakes when it responded to
Miss Gs complaint. As well as upholding it and acknowledging its errors, it said it would
allow Miss Gs NCD and it paid her half of her excess.
It might help if I explain that, when liability is finally settled, if one of the drivers is found not
to be at fault then they will usually receive all of their excess back. But where liability is split
on a 50/50 basis, its usual for each driver to only receive half their excess back.
And, when Advantage was looking at a remedy to Miss Gs complaint it anticipated that the
claim would be settled on a 50/50 split liability basis and she would receive 50% of her
excess back at that point. So by paying Miss G the other 50% of her excess in response to
the complaint Advantage was essentially trying to return Miss G to the position she would
have been in if it had found her not to be at fault at all. That is, it was trying to ensure that
she received 100% of her excess back. Thats because it paid her 50% in the complaint
response and anticipated she would receive the remaining 50% when the claim was finally
settled.
However, the claim wasn't settled on a 50/50 basis as the other driver accepted full liability
for the accident. And, at that time, Advantage returned Miss Gs full excess of £545. It didn't
deduct from that sum the half of the excess it had previously paid to her. So the £545 excess
payment was on top of the £425 it had paid her previously. And it's told us thats because
the 50% excess it refunded previously was part of its compensation to address the impact of
its mistakes. That means Advantage has paid Miss G a total of £425 compensation. And I
think thats a reasonable sum in the circumstances. That because its similar to amounts we
award in other cases of equal seriousness. So I think Advantage has already done enough 
to address the impact of its mistakes. And I'm not going to instruct it to take any further
action.
Developments
 
Both Miss G and Advantage promptly accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss G nor Advantage objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman