DRN-3129946
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Limited (LV). He isnt happy about 
the way it valued his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F made a claim under his car insurance policy after he was involved in an accident that 
wasnt his fault. And when LV looked to settle the claim Mr F wasnt happy with the valuation  
of his car. So, Mr F complained to LV and it eventually increased its offer by over a thousand 
pounds and waived Mr Fs excess that was due under his policy. But Mr F remained 
unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She looked at the 
various motor trade guides and found the valuations were in line with what LV had offered 
and thought that LV had acted reasonably in valuing Mr Fs car.
But as Mr F didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr F, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Fs position, as he clearly feels his car is worth more than LV have 
offered him. And he feels that the way LV has valued his car has left him out of pocket. 
This service has an established approach to valuation cases. When looking at the valuation 
placed on a car by an insurance company I consider the approach they have adopted. And 
decide whether the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. It isnt the role of this service to 
come to an exact valuation for a consumers car.
But we do look to see if insurers have acted fairly in looking to offer a market value of the 
car. I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as cars dont normally 
sell for the price at which they are advertised. The condition of the car at the time of the 
incident is also an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a 
business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I know Mr F doesnt agree with this approach. He feels the trade guides arent accurate and 
his car is worth at least £1300 more than LV has offered him. He has highlighted that his car 
isnt a common model, but I can see that LV considered this and the further evidence he 
provided when it increased the valuation. 
I have looked at the trade guide valuations and some advertisements myself. And having 
done so I cant conclude LVs offer is unreasonable. I say this as LV has offered more than 
the top trade guide valuation that I have seen so I think its offer seems fair. 
Valuing second hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mr Fs 
car. Im just looking to see if LV has acted reasonably in providing a fair market value of his 
car and I think it has. Mr F has made the point that second car valuations are rising, and I 
note that his initial valuation was less than he feels he should be paid now. But the trade 
guide valuations are from around the time of his claim, so Im satisfied he hasnt been 
prejudiced here. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied LV has looked to value Mr Fs car in a fair and reasonable way 
and looked to pay him the market value of his car in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Plus, it has looked to pay his excess, which it wasnt obliged to do as it could have left Mr F 
to advance this direct with the other drivers insurer. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman