DRN-3585182
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about a NatWest One Account (NOA) that they had with National 
Westminster Bank Plc. They say that NatWest unfairly asked them to reduce the borrowing 
on the account before the mortgage matured and this caused them distress, inconvenience, 
and financial loss.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with NatWest in 2004 and repaid it in 2018.They had a 
facility on their NOA which they expected to be able to use for the full term of the mortgage. 
In April 2012 NatWest sent a letter saying Mr and Mrs M were behind on their repayment 
plan and sent further similar letters in 2013. In July 2014, NatWest reduced the facility from 
£76,017 to £61,291. NatWest then re-instated the full facility in October 2014. NatWest 
offered £700 in compensation for Mr and Mrs Ms trouble and upset.
Our investigators view was that in June 2014 NatWest said that the account was on a 
capital and interest repayment basis and at that stage behind plan and whilst NatWest could 
have made the plan clearer, within its terms and conditions it could have fairly asked Mr and 
Mrs M to reduce their borrowing. She also thought that as the withdrawal of the facility was 
for a short period, Mr and Mrs wouldnt have suffered a financial loss and that the 
compensation offered to them was appropriate. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for a 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M say that this wasnt a capital and interest mortgage but a current account 
mortgage that they should have been able to enjoy for the full term of the mortgage. Ive 
looked at the documentation that has been provided, attached to this mortgage. Its an offset 
type mortgage operating with a current account. The bank says it expected the capital to be 
repaid during the course of the mortgage according to a repayment guide. Mr and Mrs M 
understood that the capital they borrowed - about £70,000 - wouldnt have to be repaid until 
the end of term. 
Mr and Mrs M had a repayment vehicle which was an endowment policy to pay off the 
capital, but they say that the policy drastically underperformed and was some £50,000 light 
when it matured in 2012. Mr and Mrs M have told me that they were advised by the bank 
manager at the time when they took out the mortgage that the money they borrowed 
wouldnt have to be repaid until 2018 and although I can see in the documentation 
references to agreeing a repayment plan, I can see why Mr and Mrs M reasonably came to 
the conclusion that they did. 
So, I can understand why NatWests decision in 2013 and in 2014 to reduce their borrowing 
came as a shock to them. On the other hand, except for a short period of less than three 
months in 2014 when Mr and Mrs M were requested to make a partial repayment in 
accordance with the repayment plan - a request which was then rescinded - this mortgage 
operated as Mr and Mrs M expected it would so that they had the advantage of the whole 
initial borrowing during the term of the mortgage and didnt in fact repay any money until 
maturity. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs M should be compensated for the distress and inconvenience they 
suffered during the period the facility was partially withdrawn. I can see that the were very 
distressed in 2014 having to go back to NatWest to plead with the bank not to reduce the 
borrowing but to allow them time to continue with the same borrowing to facilitate the 
completion of a project on their daughters house that Mr M was engaged in. I note that in 
October 2014, NatWest agreed to Mr Ms proposal and in fact the borrowing was never 
reduced. I agree that Mr and Mrs M should be compensated for their distress and 
inconvenience. In accordance with our guidelines I believe that the amount offered by 
NatWest of £700 following its remediation is appropriate.
The other issue raised by Mr and Mrs M of compensation for their financial loss is more 
problematic. In 2014 when Mr M was talking to the NatWest adviser about the reduction of 
the borrowing facility, he discussed his financial plans for his daughters property. I have the 
notes of that conversation in which Mr M said that he was working on a property which was 
in his daughters name with a small mortgage of £20,000. Mr M said that he was working on 
the property which he hoped to finish by Christmas but at worst case by March 2015. Mr M 
said that when the property renovations had been completed his daughter would be looking 
to remortgage and payback Mr M a minimum of £60,000 to cover the cost of the work 
completed of which he would use £40,000 to pay down the mortgage. 
Mr M wanted the full mortgage re-instated and then reviewed in 2015. That is in fact what 
happened and theres a note on the file of the bank agreeing to it and a further note that Mr 
M was quite happy with what was discussed. So, I cant reasonably say that anything that 
NatWest did interfered with Mr and Mrs Ms plans as they set them out to the NatWest 
adviser and so I cant fairly say that Mr and Mrs M suffered a financial loss because of 
NatWests actions.
In their correspondence with us Mr and Mrs M have suggested a different basis of their claim 
for financial loss. Mr and Mrs Ms say that they intended doing up this property and because 
of NatWests actions in 2014 felt they couldnt trust NatWest, abandoned that plan and put it 
on the market to sell without the added value of doing it up and so want to recoup from 
NatWest what they lost out through the forced sale. 
But there is a major problem with that claim. Mr M says this property was an inheritance from 
his father to Mr M and his brother. Mr M then gifted his 50% share to his daughter who 
raised a mortgage and paid his brothers share. But if Mr M gifted his share, he had no 
further interest in the property. Thats what a gift is even if Mr M puts inverted commas 
around the word. The property now belonged to his daughter. As the property was now his 
daughters, any financial loss sustained by the sale price not meeting expectations would be 
sustained by the owner of the property and not Mr or Mrs M. So, I cant fairly uphold a claim 
for the financial loss on the sale of a property by a party who didnt own it. My view is that the 
evidence does not support Mr and Mrs Ms claims for financial loss and, as Im satisfied that 
NatWest has made an appropriate offer of compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience, I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman