DRN-4396128
The complaint
Mrs C complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) hasnt refunded all her losses after 
she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. And so, I wont go into all the 
details about what happened in this final decision. Instead, Ill give a broad overview and 
include key details.
Mrs C came across a company that Ill refer to as M. M claimed to be able to offer various 
services, all with the aim of achieving what it described as financial freedom. M said this 
could be achieved by exploiting various loopholes in the law and in signed contracts so that 
debts  including credit cards, loans, and mortgages  could be annulled and any payments 
towards those debts returned.
Mrs C made two payments to M to contract for its services: £1,500 was sent by bank transfer 
in February 2022; a further £1,000 was paid using Mrs Cs debit card in April 2022. 
When Mrs C didnt receive what shed paid for she contacted Co-op to report that shed been 
scammed. 
Co-op investigated and, at the time, felt M was a genuine company but one that hadnt 
delivered what was promised; it didnt think Mrs C had been scammed. It proceeded to raise 
a chargeback on that basis, seeking recovery of the debit card payment from Ms bank. This 
chargeback was successful as it went unchallenged by M, and so Mrs C received the money 
back. This is one of the reasons Co-op thought M was genuine.
As Co-op had concluded Mrs C had a civil dispute with M  rather than it being the case 
shed been scammed  it said it wouldnt refund the bank transfer.
Mrs C was unhappy with that outcome and so brought the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint. He found Mrs C had been the victim of a scam 
and that Co-op had reached the wrong conclusion. He went on to consider whether Co-op 
ought to have refunded Mrs C in full.
In doing so, he thought about the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code, to which Co-op is a voluntary signatory. The Code was established to see the victims 
of scams reimbursed their losses. But there are exceptions to reimbursement that a 
signatory firm may rely on. Our investigator found that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applied in Mrs Cs case.
Our investigator noted that Co-op had discussed the bank transfer with Mrs C. And whilst 
Mrs C had initially lied about the purpose of her payment, shed gone on to explain it was for 
a business transaction. He felt Co-op did enough here, given the payment wasnt of 
sufficiently high value as to require an effective warning (as described in the CRM Code).
He went on to consider whether Mrs C had held a reasonable basis for believing she was 
engaged with legitimate parties for legitimate purposes at the time she made the payment. 
He didnt think she did. He found, in summary:
the claims M made about what it could achieve were implausible and far too good to 
be true;
there was an FCA warning published about M on 8 March 2021.
He also thought about whether there was any other reason Co-op ought to refund Mrs C. He 
couldnt see that there was. In making that finding he considered what might have happened 
if Co-op had accepted Mrs C had been the victim of a scam from the outset. If it had done 
so, it ought to have contacted the bank that received Mrs Cs money in an attempt to recover 
it. That led him to contact the receiving bank to ask about what had happened to Mrs Cs 
money. 
The receiving bank replied and provided evidence to show Mrs Cs money had left the 
receiving account long before Mrs C reported the scam. That meant there was no prospect 
of recovering it, even if Co-op had contacted the receiving bank as soon as Mrs C reported 
the scam. 
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C but Im not upholding her complaint and for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator. Ill not comment on everything Mrs C has said or on all the 
evidence shes provided. Instead, Ill cover the important aspects of the complaint and how 
they influence the outcome. 
In making these findings Im not saying that Mrs C hasnt been the innocent victim of a cruel 
scam. And Im not saying she knew she was being scammed at the time but decided to 
proceed anyway. But it is for me to determine whether she ought, fairly and reasonably, to 
have been refunded by Co-op.
I mentioned the CRM Code in the background section of this decision. Its this Code that is 
of particular importance to Mrs Cs complaint. Whilst the Code is in place to see the victims 
of scams refunded, firms like Co-op can choose not to reimburse a customer if it can be 
shown an exception applies. The two important exceptions are:
did the customer ignore an effective waring given at the time the payment was being 
made?
did the customer have a reasonable basis for believing they were transacting with 
legitimate parties for legitimate purposes?
The Code only applies to bank transfers, not card payments. And so, it isnt relevant to the 
payment Mrs C has had a refund for. The money from the card payment was returned to 
Mrs C via a different mechanism  a chargeback. Co-op raised the chargeback on the basis 
of goods/services not received (rather than as a scam) and the merchant (M) didnt defend it. 
That meant an automatic refund to Mrs C, regardless of the merits of her claim. The 
outcome of the chargeback, and the circumstances under which it was raised, has no 
bearing on the outcome of the bank transfer part of Mrs Cs complaint.
Did Mrs C ignore an effective warning given at the time the payment was being made?
The Code sets out  under standards for firms  what constitutes an effective warning. It 
also sets out when one ought to be provided. Im satisfied there was no requirement under 
the Code for Co-op to provide an effective warning to Mrs C. 
Thats because I dont find the payment clearly presented a risk of financial harm through 
fraud. It was relatively low in value, though I appreciate it represents a significant loss to Mrs C. But given the amount being sent, and the lack of any other concerning features, I 
dont find Co-op needed to intervene in the payment.
Having said that, Co-op did ask Mrs C some questions. She wasnt entirely truthful with the 
Co-op and clearly didnt want to discuss the payment in detail. This limited how much Co-op 
could do to try and protect her. Overall, I find Co-op did enough in the circumstances.
Did the Mrs C have a reasonable basis for believing she was transacting with legitimate 
parties for legitimate purposes?
I can see why Mrs C wanted Ms claims to be true. Shes explained that she paid off her 
mortgage years ago and thought shed be able to recover it and associated costs. But I find 
the proposal to be highly implausible, even farfetched. The suggestion that a long paid-off 
mortgage could somehow be deemed null and void, with a return of all funds paid to it just 
doesnt sound realistic. Particularly as it seems the suggestion was that this could happen 
without also giving up or losing the underlying asset  the home. 
The same is true of the other claims of M, in having credit card and other loan debt written 
off through technicalities and loopholes. 
Whilst there was a fairly well put together website it contains little of substance or proof of 
Ms claims. Instead, the approach seems to be to obfuscate and confuse potential clients 
with jargon.
Theres nothing within the evidence Mrs C has provided that persuades me that M should 
have been regarding with anything other than suspicion.
Our investigator found that there had been an FCA warning about M live at the time Mrs C 
made the payment. Certainly, the date the warning was published suggests this was the 
case. 
Mrs C argues that the warning was only updated to include all the detail about M after she 
contacted the FCA about the scam. She says there was otherwise nothing concerning 
published about M or the persons that worked for it. 
In fairness, I cant be sure exactly what information was shown on the warning between 
March 2021 and the point Mrs C made the payment. There was something there, but it is 
possible it didnt include Ms details. But, even if that were the case, the outcome of the 
complaint doesnt change. Even without the warning, I dont find Mrs C held a reasonable 
basis for believing she was transacting with legitimate parties for legitimate purposes, for the 
reasons Ive already explained..
Is there any other reason why Co-op ought fairly and reasonably to reimburse Mrs C?
I do think Co-op ought to have recognised Mrs C had been the victim of a scam when she 
contacted it. I dont believe the fact the chargeback went undefended helped evidence M as 
an otherwise legitimate business. 
Co-op ought to have contacted the receiving bank once Mrs C reported the scam. This 
would have been in an attempt to recover any of her funds that remained in the account. 
But we now know that all her money had already been removed from the receiving account 
by the time she reported the scam; there was nothing left to return.
And so, whilst Co-op didnt do what I believe it fairly and reasonably ought to have done, 
there hasnt been any financial impact to Mrs C. There was never any prospect of her money 
being recovered, even if Co-op had acted immediately and seen through the request for a 
return of the funds.Ive considered all Mrs C has said and her wider circumstances. I do sympathise with her, 
and I do recognise shes been the innocent victim of a scam. I dont find, however, that it is 
for Co-op to reimburse her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman