DRN-2753549
The complaint
Mr T complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) took too long to investigate the cause of 
damage to his property under his new homes warranty causing him financial loss.
What happened
Lloyds has used a managing agent to administer the policy, but for ease anything the 
third party has said on behalf of Lloyds will be referred to as Lloyds as the underwriter of 
the policy unless otherwise stated.
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
In March 2018, Mr T stopped renting his property as there was a strong smell of 
damp in the lounge. After a storm in December 2018, Mr T made a claim against his 
warranty for water ingress.
Lloyds requested Mr T to get an expert report to evidence the claim which Mr T 
declined to provide and raised a complaint. Following our services consideration of 
that complaint in April/May 2020, Lloyds agreed to have an expert investigate the 
damage to Mr Ts property. 
Lloyds ultimately declined the claim in September 2020.
Mr T has said he has lost 16 months of rent and has had to pay 16 months of council 
tax that would otherwise been paid by his tenant, causing him stress, anxiety and 
financial hardship.
Lloyds managing agent first responded to Mr Ts complaint stating consequential 
loss isnt covered by the policy. 
It was then reviewed by Lloyds and it said:
oIt disagreed that in initially seeking from Mr T an engineers report meant that
underwriters breached a policy undertaking, or that the explicit wording that 
they will assess your claim for you amounted to an admittance that it will 
incur the associated expense and demonstrate on behalf of any insured 
whether or not the policy responds. The fact our service later stipulated that 
an expert should be appointed and paid for by underwriters didn't mean the 
underwriters retrospectively breached this undertaking.
oIt felt that the claim was handled in a timely manner.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T didnt agree so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr T feels if Lloyds had investigated the claim sooner than it did, and Mr T 
had known the outcome sooner it would have prevented the amount of financial loss he has 
suffered.
I can see the flat was empty prior to Mr T reporting the ingress of water to Lloyds. I 
appreciate he has said it wasnt rentable due to the smell of damp and it wasnt until after a 
storm in December that he was able to see what was causing the problem and this is when 
he reported it.  But I can see the flat was empty for several months prior to this without action 
being taken to make it rentable. 
To consider Mr Ts points I have also looked at what actually happened once the 
investigation was completed, and the claim outcome was communicated. I appreciate Mr T 
doesnt agree this is the way to look at it but what I must think about is what position Mr T 
would be in if a delay hadnt occurred. And if there has been no impact as result of the delay, 
then its unlikely Id be asking Lloyds to do anything.
From what I can see Mr T has known the outcome of the claim since September 2020 and 
the property has remained unrented since. Mr T has explained that this is because he has 
no legal authority to authorise works to be done on the property and therefore, he couldnt 
instigate any rectification work to resolve the problem and mitigate the delay. He was reliant 
on the managing agent of the building to arrange the work. 
I am therefore not persuaded that if the claim outcome had been known sooner that Mr T 
wouldve been able to get a tenant into the property any sooner as he was reliant on another 
party to complete the works, and he wouldve been in the same position whether there had 
been no delay caused by Lloyds. So, although I empathise with the position Mr T found 
himself in, Im not persuaded the time it took for the claim to progress caused the financial 
loss, for this reason I wont be asking Lloyds to anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman