DRN-4492970
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has paid in
settlement of his claim under his Car Insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ws vehicle was damaged in an accident and he made a claim under his policy. Admiral
decided his vehicle was a total loss. It offered a settlement based on the market value of the
vehicle being £20,200 at the time of the loss. Mr W wasnt happy with this amount, as he
thought it would cost a lot more than this to replace his vehicle. He complained to Admiral
about this and a number of other things.
Admiral issued a final response letter in which it said it was satisfied the market value it had
used to settle Mr Ws claim was correct. So, Mr W asked us to consider his complaint about
this and the fact hed not been able to replace his car as a result of having to dispute the
settlement offer by Admiral.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld
because he was satisfied that the market value Admiral had used to settle Mr Ws claim was
reasonable.  
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 20 November 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally decided 
and why as follows:
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold it and make Admiral pay Mr W a further
amount in settlement of his claim. Ive explained why below.
Under the terms of Mr Ws policy if Admiral decides his car is a total loss it has to pay him
the Market Value, which is defined as The cost of replacing your vehicle: with one of a
similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately
before the loss happened. Use of the term 'market' refers to where your vehicle was
purchased. This value is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Admiral only used two guides to decide what the market value of Mr Ws vehicle was. And I
can see why this led it to conclude the market value of £20,200 it reached was reasonable.
We use four guides and we also consider adverts that are provided with these guides. And I
think the adverts provided with the Percayso valuation for similar vehicles to Mr Ws with a
similar mileage for sale at the time his was damaged show the market value it suggests is
correct. There is an advert for one which had done 57,000 miles at £21,945. And an advert
for one that had done 52,000 miles at £21,500. And I think these and the other guide we use
(Autotrader) suggest that the market value, i.e. the cost of replacing Mr Ws car would have
most likely been what Percayso suggests. This is £21,354. And I think if Admiral had done
more research and checked adverts when Mr W said he wasnt happy with its valuation, it
would have realised this. Instead, it seems it just stuck with the guides it normally used and
this left it insisting the market value it had decided on was right.
I do of course appreciate our investigator took a different view to me, but I have to decide
what I think is fair and reasonable. And I cannot ignore the evidence of the guides and the
adverts Ive seen which suggest a market value of £21,354 is correct. And this means I think
the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ws complaint is for Admiral to pay him a further
£1,154 in settlement of his claim; plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date it paid
the previous amount to the finance company to the date of payment to Mr W. This is to
compensate Mr W for being without these funds.
Ive also considered Mr Ws point that he could not replace his car while he was disputing
the settlement offer made by Admiral. However, I can see Admiral cleared the majority of the
finance on Mr Ws vehicle; so I think he did have the opportunity to arrange finance to buy a
replacement. So, Im not going to award any compensation in this regard.
I gave both parties until 4 December 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. Both 
parties have responded to say they accept what I provisionally decided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept what I provisionally decided, I see no reason to alter my view on the 
fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ws complaint. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and order 
Admiral to pay him a further £1,154 in settlement of his claim, plus interest at 8% per annum 
simple1 from the date it made the payment on his claim to the finance company to the date it 
pays this further amount to Mr W.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited and order it to do 
what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024. 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must tell Mr W if it has made a deduction for income 
tax. And, if it has, how much its taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction certificate for 
Mr W if asked to do so. This will allow Mr W to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.