DRN-2730455
The complaint
The estate of Mrs H is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim for 
storm damage on the home insurance policy. They feel the claim was unfairly declined. The 
estate is represented by Mr H, her son, and Mr T, executor of Mrs Hs estate.
What happened
Mr H said part of a stone wall had fallen down during exceptionally heavy winter rainfall and 
high winds. This had left exposed edges and about seven weeks later a larger part of the 
wall collapsed during stormy weather. Aviva rejected a claim for storm claim because it said 
it hadnt been caused by an insured peril. Aviva said the damage had been caused gradually 
over a period of time from various incidents. But Mr H felt the estate had a valid claim for 
storm damage on the late Mrs Hs home insurance policy. And he wants Aviva to meet the 
total costs of rebuilding the wall.
Mr H is also unhappy with the unsatisfactory way Aviva dealt with the claim. He had to deal 
with a bewildering variety of organisations. And it was difficult to understand what was 
happening or how to proceed from the emails and texts that came from them. 
Aviva said itd reviewed all of the information and it felt itd made the right decision to decline 
the claim. The damage to the wall hadnt been caused by an insured peril listed in the policy 
booklet. Aviva appreciated that Mr H felt the damage was due to excessive rainfall. But it 
hadnt found any evidence of rainfall that would cause structural damage to a property. And 
it couldnt consider a claim for storm damage. Aviva said no other insured peril would be 
applicable in this instance. And the policy clearly excluded damage due to wear and tear. 
Aviva explained an insurance claim can mean dealing with several individuals and it was 
sorry itd affected Mr Hs experience. Unfortunately itd been unavoidable in this case.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Avivas response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She focused on the dates in February 2020 when the 
main damage to the wall occurred. And she was satisfied there were storm conditions at the 
time. Our investigator looked at the damage thatd taken place and she thought it was 
consistent with storm damage.
Our investigator then considered if the storm was the main cause of the damage. She looked 
at the report from the loss adjuster whod concluded the wall wasnt in a good state of repair. 
And she felt the storm had highlighted pre-existing issues with the wall. It wasnt the main 
cause of the damage. So she didnt think Aviva had unfairly declined the claim for storm 
damage. She could see Aviva had provided information about the different contractors Mr H 
had dealt with. But while she could appreciate Mr Hs concerns she felt Aviva hadnt done 
anything wrong in using a number of different companies to fully assess the claim. And she 
wasnt able to uphold the complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree. He felt the original collapse in December 2019 had been caused by the 
adverse wet weather conditions throughout the autumn. 
Because the wall was listed it hadnt been possible to get it repaired as quickly as he 
wouldve liked. And it had led to deterioration in the surrounding area, making it more 
vulnerable. Mr H said the storm in February 2020 had caused further severe damage which 
wouldnt have occurred without a storm event. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down this complaint. Ill explain why.
Buildings insurance covers the cost of repairing or rebuilding a property if its damaged or 
destroyed due to a type of unforeseen event. In this case it would include the boundary walls 
to the property.
When considering whether I think Avivas decision to decline the estates claim is fair, I have 
to start by deciding whether an insured event has taken place. An insured event would be 
the cause of the damage. And it would have to be listed as an insured peril in the policy 
document. 
Mr H submitted a claim for storm damage to Aviva after a section of boundary wall collapsed 
during strong winds. The home insurance policy provides cover for storm damage. And, as 
the investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage there are three 
questions we need to ask:
 Where there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Avivas home insurance policy defines storm damage as an unusual weather event with 
persistent high winds usually associated with rain, thunder, lightning or snow. The policy 
continues the wind speed or gust should normally exceed 55mph (48 knots) to be a storm 
but we take other factors into consideration such as where the property is sited. A storm can 
highlight defects rather than cause them and damage due to lack of maintenance, wear and 
tear or which happens gradually is not covered.
The main damage occurred around 9 and 10 February 2020 so Ive looked at the local 
weather report for the week the claim was made. I can see gusts of between 50mph and 
60mph were recorded in the area during that period. So Im satisfied there were storm 
conditions when the main damage to the boundary wall occurred. 
Ive also looked at the photos of the damaged wall and I think the damage is consistent with 
the sort of damage Id expect a storm might cause. So I now need to consider if the storm 
was the main cause of the damage. 
The surveyors report said the wall wasnt in a good state of repair. Ivy had covered sections 
of the wall, plants were growing near the wall and a mesh wire had been attached to it. 
Previous repairs were also evident. 
The surveyor also noted that no other properties had been damaged during the storm 
conditions and the wall on the opposite side of the garden was still standing.Mr H says the wall had been there for centuries without a fall of this magnitude. So hes sure 
the storm must have been the key factor in the collapse. And the plants hadnt covered the 
part of the wall that came down. 
I know Mr H says he checked the property on a regular basis. And I appreciate that when 
some small damage occurred in December the previous year itd not been possible to 
arrange prompt repairs because of the listed nature of the property and the need for 
planning permission.
But Id expect a well-maintained wall to be able to withstand all but the most severe of 
weather conditions. And the surveyor felt the general condition of that part of the wall was a 
more likely main reason for its collapse than any single one-off event such as a storm. The 
storm didnt appear to have caused any similar damage elsewhere.
Ive looked at the photos and surveyors report. And based on what Ive seen I think Aviva 
was entitled to rely on the surveyors report to decline the estates claim. It wasnt 
unreasonable to do so. And I dont think Mr H has thrown sufficient doubt on the surveyors 
conclusions to make me feel Aviva should change its position. 
Mr H was also unhappy with the way Aviva handled the claim. He felt there were too many 
parties involved and it made it difficult to know what was happening. Unfortunately its not 
usual for a number of contractors to be involved in a claim of this sort. And I can see Aviva 
has now explained the various roles of the firms involved. 
But I do appreciate Aviva couldve made it clearer to Mr H what was happening and what the 
different contractors were doing. And Im sure Aviva looks at the outcome of all the 
complaints it receives to see if it can improve things.
I realise Mr H will be disappointed with this decision. The home insurance policy provided 
cover against unforeseen events. But it specifically excluded wear and tear or damage that 
happens gradually over a period of time.  And I think its more likely there were existing 
problems with the wall, perhaps increased by the period of poor weather during the previous 
autumn, and that they were the main cause of the damage. The high winds of the storm 
mightve highlighted the deteriorating condition of the wall, but I cant say it was the main 
cause of the collapse.
It follows that I think Avivas decision to decline the estates claim was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman