DRN-2574840
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the advice given to her by Integrity Asset Management Limited 
(IAM) to transfer out of her occupational pension scheme.
What happened
In November 2016 Mrs Ts husband instructed IAM to look at his finances. Then in January 
2017 Mrs T instructed them to review her pension arrangements. Mr and Mrs T were  
seeking advice in relation to their retirement.
Mrs T had a meeting with IAM in March 2017. A fact find report was completed which noted 
the following about her:
Mrs T was 53 years old and had already retired by winding up the family business. 
She intended to take her pension benefits from age 60.
Mrs T was in good health. She was married and had two children, aged 21 and 23. 
On the review questionnaire, she said she would prefer a lump sum death benefit 
because she didnt expect to need these benefits in retirement and wanted to leave 
them to her nominated beneficiaries.
Mrs T ticked to say she would like the flexibility at retirement to control the way 
benefits were paid, depending on her circumstances at the time.
She had other assets such as her property worth about £400,000 and a savings bond 
valued at £127,000, but the occupational pension was a significant part of her final 
retirement. 
Mr T had significant pension benefits, so the total household retirement income was 
sufficient. 
IAM put Mrs Ts attitude to risk as high medium. 
She said she was prepared to forego potentially large gains if the value of her 
retirement fund was secure; the most important thing to her was improving the 
security of her pension fund.
Mrs T was a deferred member of the occupational pension scheme. Her estimated 
retirement options with that scheme in February 2024 were a full pension at 
£7,215.78 a year, or a tax-free lump sum of £34,554.44 with a reduced pension of 
£5,183.17 a year.
The transfer value offered by the occupational pension scheme on 5 December 2016 
was £133,105.95.
Following the advice from IAM, Mrs T decided to transfer her funds out of the occupational 
scheme and the transfer was then completed.
In 2020 Mrs T said she had consulted a new financial adviser who told her the advice she 
received previously was unsuitable. She complained to IAM that the transfer had been made 
without any of the necessary analysis being done; she didnt receive a TVAS or any other 
documents highlighting the risk or value of transferring until after the transfer. Mrs T said she 
wouldnt have left the occupational pension scheme if shed known the significant returns 
that were needed to provide a similar level of pension benefits.
IAM didnt accept that the advice had been unsuitable. But when Mrs T brought the 
complaint to this service, our investigator thought it should be upheld. She said:
As the occupational pension represented a large proportion of Mrs Ts retirement 
fund, there needed to be a significant chance of improving on these benefits for the 
transfer to be in her best interests. Looking at the critical yields given by IAM, and the 
fact Mrs T wasnt given that information before going ahead with the transfer, it was 
clear the critical yield wasnt reasonably achievable, and Mrs T wasnt aware of this 
before being advised to transfer.
IAM said Mrs T wanted to take her benefits flexibly and leave a legacy for her family, 
and she didnt want to buy an annuity. But IAM didnt explore properly whether Mrs T 
could have taken out additional life assurance to meet her objective, instead of losing 
the guarantees of the defined benefit scheme. While this is mentioned in the final 
suitability report, that wasnt given to Mrs T before the transfer took place. The 
investigator wasnt satisfied the advice was sound, or that it was in Mrs Ts best 
interests to transfer.
In relation to death benefits, although the value of the lump sum was likely to be 
higher in a personal pension, the occupational pension also offered a 50% 
dependents pension and all the options were not explored properly and explained to 
Mrs T. 
Mrs T said the most important thing to her was the security of her pension. So it 
wasnt clear she had a real need to drawdown income, when this was likely to 
provide her with lower pension benefits. 
The investigator wasnt satisfied Mrs T understood the risks of transferring in order to  
take her benefits through drawdown and there was no evidence to suggest she was 
advised about this before the transfer. 
The investigator didnt think IAM should have advised Mrs T to transfer her pension, which 
included valuable benefits, without a proper analysis and explanation to Mrs T of the benefits  
she was giving up. She said the advice was unsuitable and was rushed through without the 
recommended analysis taking place, and as a result Mrs T has lost out on guaranteed 
pension benefits. So she asked IAM to establish whether there has been a loss as a result. 
The investigator set out the calculation IAM should carry out to establish the loss and any 
compensation payable to put this right.
IAM disagrees with the investigator and has requested an ombudsmans decision. It has 
made a number of comments. I wont set them all out in full but the key points include:
Three pension transfer specialists have reviewed the case and agreed that a pension 
transfer was the only way Mrs Ts objectives could be met. The reasons to 
recommend a transfer were compelling.
The investigator had focused excessively on the critical yield without fully 
understanding what it measures or its relative importance in assessing the suitability 
of a transfer.
The FCA has issued guidance on assessing suitability, which completely ignores the 
critical yields. In October 2018 it introduced the Transfer Value Comparator which 
undertakes a calculation of the cost of providing the same benefits as the ceding 
scheme promises through annuity purchase. That replaced the requirement to supply 
critical yields to clients. And in January 2021 it published the DB Transfer 
Assessment Tool. All the examples of unsuitability in this tool relate to the clients 
needs, aims and circumstances and none relate to the critical yield  its not a key 
factor in assessing suitability for a transfer.
The guarantee date was 5 March 2017 and it wouldnt realistically have been 
possible for all the research and reports to be completed within the time available.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When providing advice about whether to transfer a defined benefit pension plan, the relevant 
rules and guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out that the starting 
point is to assume the transfer is unsuitable. As theres a presumption that a transfer will be 
unsuitable, an adviser should only recommend it if theres clear evidence it would be in the 
clients best interests. Ive taken this into account when considering whether the advice given 
to Mrs T was suitable and in her best interests.  
Mrs T complains that the transfer was completed without any of the necessary analysis such 
as a TVAS report. Ive considered the process that was followed. 
IAM wrote to Mrs T advising her the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the 
occupational pension was only guaranteed until 5 March and if they were to complete a 
TVAS and other documents they wouldnt be able to complete the transfer in time. IAM said 
the CETV was very generous and as high as it was likely to get and if they waited for the 
TVAS, the CETV would have been lost. IAM has also said Mrs T pressed them to complete 
the transfer quickly because Mr Ts CETV with the same scheme had dropped in value and 
she was worried the same would happen with hers. But it doesnt seem to me that Mrs T 
was putting pressure on IAM. It was IAMs letter to Mrs T that recommended going ahead 
with the transfer without any of the recommended analysis taking place. And the letter was 
written after the transfer had taken place. So I dont think Mrs T was properly informed 
before she decided to do the transfer.
Under the FCAs Conduct of Business (COBS) rules, to demonstrate a transfer is suitable, a 
business must make the consumer aware of the risks and benefits of transferring. IAM says 
there were discussions where this was done. Im not satisfied, however, that is was done 
properly as the pension was transferred before any formal analysis had taken place. Its 
difficult to see how she could have been properly informed of the risks without being given 
any analysis. Indeed, IAMs own letter to Mrs T in March said it was essential that this 
process is undertaken before deciding to transfer from the Scheme. But the final suitability 
report was completed on 20 July 2017  some months after the transfer. 
IAM says in this case it wasnt practical to wait, because the guaranteed CETV would be lost 
 there was no option but to proceed. IAM said to Mrs T this is not the approach that we 
would normally recommend but it was necessary to ensure that you received the guaranteed 
CETV. So Ive considered whether the circumstances justified going ahead without waiting.
A defined benefit pension has valuable guaranteed retirement benefits that are usually 
unwise to give up. So, although not the only factor, I think the critical yield is an important  
factor to consider when deciding whether advice to move away from a defined benefit 
pension is suitable. 
The critical yield given in the suitability report for full scheme benefits at age 60 was 15.4% 
for the full pension or 12% for cash and a reduced pension. The actual advice given was we 
recommend that you transfer the benefits from the Pension Scheme, to a SIPP... 
The critical yield tells us how likely it is the personal pension will achieve the investment 
growth needed for the pension transfer to be financially viable. As Mrs Ts occupational 
pension represented a large proportion of her retirement fund, there needed to be a 
significant chance of improving on these benefits for the transfer to be in her best interests. 
The advice was given during the period when our service was publishing discount rates on 
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was  upheld. Although businesses didnt have to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they do provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable at the time. The critical yield needed to match the  
occupational pension at retirement was 12% per year. This compares with the discount rate 
of 3.4% per year, for 7 years to retirement in this case. I think its clear the critical yield 
wasnt reasonably achievable - and Mrs T wasnt aware of this when she was advised to 
transfer her pension.
IAM says the critical yield isnt the decisive point  and more recent advice from the FCA 
shows other factors are more important. But I need to consider the advice given by IAM 
against the relevant rules and guidance that were in place at the time.
I appreciate IAM also says Mrs T was clear that her objectives were that she wanted to take 
her benefits flexibly and leave a legacy for her family. She didnt want to buy an annuity. But 
the main purpose of a pension is to provide a consumer with a regular income in their 
retirement. Its not to act as a type of life insurance policy in order to provide a benefit for a 
consumers spouse or children. IAM didnt explore whether Mrs T could have taken out 
additional life assurance to meet her objective, instead of losing the guarantees of the 
defined benefit scheme to do this. This is mentioned in the final suitability report, but only 
briefly  and the report wasnt given to Mrs T before the transfer took place. Im not therefore 
satisfied the advice given was sound, or that it was in Mrs Ts best interests to transfer 
despite this objective. Taking into account the presumption against recommending a 
transfer, there would need to have been a compelling reason to go ahead, and Im not 
satisfied there was.
IAM says improving death benefits was one of the main reasons why Mrs T wanted to 
transfer. The projected death benefits on the suitability report show that if Mrs T wished to 
leave a lump sum for her family, the value of this was likely to be higher in a personal 
pension than in the occupational pension scheme. So there was a potential benefit for her. 
But, given the overall risks involved and the fact Mrs T would almost certainly be worse off, 
Im not persuaded this benefit was sufficient to mean giving up the guaranteed benefits she 
already had was advisable.
Im also conscious that the occupational scheme offered the benefit of a 50% dependents 
pension, with a guarantee period of five years. So if Mrs T died within this period, payments 
would continue. As the analysis wasnt completed until after the transfer took place, options 
such as the dependents pension werent explained properly to Mrs T. IAM should have 
explained to Mrs T the benefits she was giving up and explained that transferring her 
pension was very likely to leave her worse off. 
IAM says Mrs T was clear in her reasons to transfer, but even allowing for that it still needed 
to make sure the transfer was in her best interests. It wasnt made clear what pension 
benefits she was giving up and what level of investment growth she would need to replace 
these. As no formal analysis took place before she was advised to transfer, Im not satisfied 
the advice given was sound or that she had enough information to decide whether to 
transfer.
Another reason given for recommending the transfer is that Mrs T could draw her pension 
benefits as and when she wished. The occupational pension formed a significant portion of 
her final retirement benefits. Her husband had significant pension benefits of his own. 
Importantly, Mrs T said the most important thing to her was the security of her pension. With 
that in mind, I dont think she had a real need to draw down income when there was other 
pension income in place and transferring was likely to provide her with lower pension 
benefits  directly in conflict with her expressed desire to ensure her benefits were secure. 
Im not satisfied she understood the risks of transferring so she could take her benefits through drawdown. Theres no evidence she was advised about this properly before the 
transfer.
Im satisfied Mrs T wouldnt have transferred if it wasnt for IAMs advice. I dont think IAM 
should have advised her to transfer her pension  thus giving up valuable benefits  without  
giving her a proper analysis and explaining the benefits she was giving up. The advice was 
rushed through solely to meet the valuation deadline without proper consideration or 
explanation of all the risks involved. 
Even if I were to accept that the critical yield is not a key factor in assessing the suitability for 
a transfer. Id still need to be persuaded the benefits of transferring were enough to outweigh 
the presumption against a transfer  and that Mrs T had enough information before the 
transfer to allow her to make that decision fully informed of the consequences of it.  
Taking all of this into account I think the advice was unsuitable. 
Ive thought about whether, if shed been given suitable advice and had been advised not to 
transfer, Mrs T would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully 
considered all the circumstances in this case, I dont believe she would. Mrs T went ahead 
with the transfer without knowing what she was giving up and without understanding that she 
was very likely to be financially disadvantaged in the long term.  
I accept its possible Mrs T may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think, at the 
very least, if IAM had advised against this, that would have made her think about things. 
Alternatively, if Mrs T had proceeded against such advice, IAM could have discharged its 
professional responsibility to her appropriately. For example, it could have treated her as an 
insistent client. However, theres nothing to indicate Mrs T was acting against the advice 
shed been given.
Mrs T has lost out on guaranteed pension benefits as a result of the advice she was given 
without having enough information to understand the implications of her decision. So IAM 
should establish whether there has been a loss as a result.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IAM to put Mrs T, as far as possible, in the 
position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I think she would have remained 
in the occupational scheme. So IAM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of the decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification that Mrs T accepts the decision.
IAM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs T as a lump sum, after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs T within 90 days of the date 
IAM receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes IAM to 
pay Mrs T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Integrity Asset Management 
Limited to pay the fair compensation set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman