DRN-4051797
The complaint
Mr R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim on 
his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R has a pet insurance policy which he took out in March in 2016 and then renewed in 
March each year. Its a non-lifetime policy, which means that cover is provided for each 
condition for up to 12 months. 
Mr R made a claim for vets fees in April 2021 after his pet had treatment for a urinary 
condition between January and February. The claim was paid in May 2021 and Red Sands 
then wrote to Mr R explaining that as a claim had been paid, cover for that condition would 
only last 12 months and it was adding an exclusion to his policy for all claims with respect to 
the urinary system. The exclusion would apply from the policy renewal in March 2021, being 
the first renewal after the treatment had taken place.
The policy renewed again in March 2022 and again included the exclusion for all claims 
relating to the urinary system.
Mr R then made a claim relating to vets fees for investigation of urinary incontinence/dysuria 
but Red Sands declined this claim. It said the condition had started in January 2021, which 
was more than 12 months earlier. Mr R complained. He said this was a different condition 
from the earlier condition but Red Sands said it would in any event be caught by the 
exclusion for all claims relating to the urinary system.
When Mr R referred the complaint to this service our investigator said the exclusion would 
apply to the claim and so it was fair for Red Sands to refuse the claim. So Mr R has 
requested an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some pet insurance policies offer lifetime cover. Lifetime policies are usually more 
expensive as they provide a greater level of cover than standard policies, which only provide 
cover for a limited time. Mr R has a standard policy so cover is limited to 12 months for each 
condition. The policy terms say: 
This is a Time Limited policy. This means each new condition is covered for 12 months  as 
long as you renew your policy. The 12 months starts from the date your pet first showed 
signs or symptoms of the condition. At the renewal after the condition started, well add an 
exclusion to your policy  but you can carry on claiming for the condition if you havent 
already reached your 12-month limit.
The renewal policy schedule issued in March 2022 included the exclusion for urinary claims 
after 10 March 2021. As this claim was made after that date, it was caught by the exclusion. 
I appreciate the treatment costs Mr R claimed for may not have been for the same condition 
as the earlier claim. But the exclusion isnt limited to the specific condition; it covers anything 
relating to the urinary system. Because this was a time-limited policy, it didnt provide 
ongoing cover in the way a lifetime policy would. At renewal, Red Sands reviews any claims 
made in the previous year and when deciding whether to offer cover for another 12 months, 
considers whether to add exclusions. The policy terms allow it to make changes to the cover 
provided.
Red Sands has explained that where there has been treatment for a urinary condition, it will 
add an exclusion for all claims relating to the urinary system.
Mr R points out that when he accessed his account using an online portal, the exclusion 
listed there only referred to the specific condition. I can appreciate it may have been 
confusing if the information there was different from the policy documents. But its the 
wording on the policy documents that sets out the level of cover provided. The exclusion is 
clearly set out in the policy documents and these were provided to him. 
Taking all of the above into account I consider Red Sands acted fairly and in line with the 
policy terms when it declined the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman