DRN-2481997
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied to her through a personal 
contract purchase (PCP) agreement with Motonovo Finance Limited (Motonovo). Miss M 
is not happy with the lengths she had to go to, for the repairs to be carried out on her car.
What happened
On 26 July 2018 Miss M was supplied a second-hand car through a PCP agreement with 
Motonovo. The car was registered on 1 March 2018, which means it was about four months 
old at the point of sale. The price of the car was £22,625 and had travelled 5,657 miles. Miss 
M part exchanged an existing vehicle for £5,600 which meant that the credit agreement was 
for £17,025 payable over 49 months.
Since acquiring the car Miss M says that shes had to bring her car to the garage for repairs 
on three occasions.
 
The first instance was for a product recall which came back clear, then in March 2020 she 
had to bring her car into the garage to have the coil pack and spark plugs replaced because 
the car had started misfiring and losing power.
 
In June 2020 Miss M noticed blue smoke coming from the exhaust, so she arranged for the 
car to be brought into the garage for an investigation and repair under the warranty. The 
mechanic identified the issue to be a small oil leak, however due to the size of the leak they 
decided against investigating further as the engine would need to be stripped, and 
authorisation for that would need to come from the manufacturer.
 
Miss M contacted Motonovo to raise a complaint. However, she had to wait for her complaint 
to be allocated before they could start their investigation. At this point Miss M felt she wasnt 
making progress with her complaint so decided against collecting the car from the garage. 
Whilst on the phone to Motonovo she said she was told that any losses or costs would be 
reimbursed up to when her complaint was transferred to a complaints manager.
Soon after Miss M contacted Motonovo, the manufacturer gave the garage authorisation to 
strip the engine and investigate. The Mechanic found that the seals had failed on the turbo 
which meant the whole turbo system would need to be replaced. The repairs were 
completed on 26 June 2020.
 
Miss M explained that while her car was being repaired the garage wasnt able to provide 
her with a courtesy car right away, because of the national restrictions that were in place at 
the time. So, she arranged to use a family members car for the duration.
  
On 13 July 2020 Motonovo provided Miss M with their final response to her complaint. They 
didnt uphold her complaint. They concluded that the issues werent present when she was 
supplied the car. Miss M also tried to claim for fuel while her car was being repaired, but as 
the complaint wasnt upheld Motonovo decided against it.
Miss M has said she no longer feels safe driving the car and wants to end the contract and 
get her deposit back. She explained that she didnt realise she wouldnt get her deposit back 
at the end of the agreement. And that if shed known this, she would have chosen a different 
agreement option.
Miss M brought her complaint to us. An investigator looked into her concerns and upheld her 
complaint. He concluded that the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied because 
it hadnt proved to be durable. The investigator asked Motonovo to pay Miss M £100 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, along with a 20% refund of Miss Ms June 
2020 payment.
Motonovo didnt agree with the investigators view. They say different things could have 
caused the turbo to fail, including previous repairs, and therefore the root cause is 
inconclusive. Theyve asked that the complaint is reviewed by an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Motonovo is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a 
consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as 
described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would need to meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems 
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider 
might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
My starting point is Motonovo supplied Miss M with a car that was just under five months old, 
had reasonably low mileage of 5,657 and at a cost of £22,625. With this in mind, I think its 
fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a less 
expensive and more road worn car; and that it could be used, free from any issues, for a 
considerable period of time.
However, from the information provided, its clear to me that there were faults with the car. 
Ive arrived at this conclusion from Miss Ms description of events, confirmation from the 
mechanic who repaired the car on both occasions and from Motonovos correspondence 
addressing Miss Ms complaint. Having considered the car was faulty, Ive had to consider 
whether it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss M. 
When Miss M was supplied the car, she was able to drive it without issue for around 20 
months and 28,957 miles before needing to have any work completed on it. This was to 
replace the spark plugs and coil pack. And soon after this the car required a new turbo.I recognise that spark plugs can vary in their durability, however I find it unlikely that a 
reasonably durable coil pack or turbo would fail within the early years of a vehicles life. In 
normal circumstances a coil pack could last in excess of 80,000 miles, however spark plugs 
are serviceable items and tend to have a shorter life expectancy. I also acknowledge that 
faulty spark plugs could impact the performance of a coil pack. A turbo however, if looked 
after through regular servicing of the car, for example, is expected to last in excess of 
100,000 miles. The mechanic who repaired the car confirmed that Miss Ms car had travelled 
30,557 miles at the point the turbo was replaced. 
Turbos can fail prematurely for a number of reasons including a lack of oil, contamination of 
oil, blocked or leaking pipes. However, the mechanic repairing the car had confirmed that the 
previous servicing carried out on the car, met the standard of the manufacturer. Ive also 
seen no evidence to suggest that Miss M hadnt looked after the car appropriately. So, I cant 
say that the failure of the turbo was brought on by anything that shed done. Im also not 
persuaded that the distance shed driven the car, is excessive in relation to the turbos 
failure. Its fair to say that in the circumstances a reasonable person wouldnt expect it to fail 
after two years and 30,557 miles. On balance I think its more likely than not that the turbo 
failed prematurely, meaning it wasnt durable; so, Im persuaded that this indicates that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss M.
The CRA says that to be considered satisfactory, goods should be durable, which taking into 
consideration the general condition, age and mileage of Miss Ms car, I cant say that it was. 
Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform to the contract. 
Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform:
(3) If the goods do not conform to the contract because of a breach of any of the 
terms described in sections 9, 10, 11, 13 and 14, or if they do not conform to the 
contract under section 16, the consumers rights (and the provisions about them and 
when they are available) are 
(a) the short-term right to reject (sections 20 and 22); 
(b) the right to repair or replacement (section 23); and 
(c) the right to a price reduction or the final right to reject (sections 20 and 24). 
I acknowledge the efforts Miss M had to go to before the repairs were authorised, and I 
recognise she now wants to cancel the agreement. However, Ive seen nothing to suggest 
the repair wasnt successful. The CRA allows for the exercise of the final right to reject after 
one attempt at repair of the goods has been carried out. While the repair to the turbocharger 
was the second repair to the car, Mrs M did not tell MotoNovo that she wanted to reject it 
until after this repair had been completed. This means Id need to be persuaded the car still 
has faults which make it of unsatisfactory quality to fairly conclude Miss M can reject the car. 
But Ive not seen evidence that persuades me of this so I dont find it would be fair or 
reasonable to allow Miss M to reject the car.  
Overall, while I dont consider the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, 
in breach of the implied term relating to quality, this was put right when the dealer repaired 
the faults.
In the complaint form Miss M also pointed out that she hadnt realised her initial deposit of 
£5,600 went towards reducing her monthly repayments, and that it wasnt intended to be 
repaid at the end of the agreement. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that in certain situations finance 
providers are liable for what is said by a supplier before the consumer takes out a credit 
agreement. So if the dealer incorrectly told Miss M she get her deposit back at the end of the 
agreement, its taken as if Motonovo told Miss M the same.
Theres no additional evidence, besides what Miss M has said to support what was 
discussed at the point of sale, about what happens when the agreement comes to an end. 
So, Im unable to determine with any confidence whether the nature of the deposit was 
discussed in any detail. Ive reviewed the credit agreement and statement summary that was 
provided at the point of sale. I think its fair to say that the paperwork makes it clear enough, 
that the deposit or part exchange in Miss Ms case, was put towards reducing the monthly 
repayments and not as a sum being held by Motonovo, to pay back to her at the end of the 
agreement.  
The statement summary gives the invoice total as £22,625. On the same page, below the 
invoice total it sets out the deductions to be made from this as the following:
less: part exchange value £5,600
It then leaves the total amount due as £17,025 which is the amount of credit being lent to 
Miss M. 
The credit agreement, in the repayments section, makes it clear that the amount of credit, 
£17,025, will be repaid over 48 monthly payments of £297.76 followed by one monthly 
payment of £9,394. Theres nothing in the agreement that indicates the deposit will be repaid 
to Miss M at the end of the agreement, so Im not persuaded that Motonovo were at fault in 
any way here. Its more likely than not that this would have been a misunderstanding on 
Miss Ms part, which, in the circumstances I cannot hold Motonovo accountable for.
When Miss M raised concerns to Motonovo over the blue smoke she noticed coming from 
the exhaust, the car was booked into the garage for investigation. However, she was told the 
engine wouldnt be stripped because of the minor nature of the oil leak. I recognise that Miss 
M had to persist to have the engine stripped so the scale of the issue with the turbo could be 
identified. This was also supported by the mechanic who told our investigator that he offered 
Miss M an apology for the lengths she had to go to. For example, refusing to collect her car 
from the garage when their initial tests hadnt identified any blue smoke, and convincing the 
garage to let the car rest before testing it again, which then appeared to expose the problem. 
It appears that her persistence led to authorisation being given to the garage, from the 
manufacturer, for the engine to be stripped and the works to be completed. 
I think its fair to say this would have caused Miss M a degree of distress and inconvenience. 
So, having considered this, for the reasons above I think its right that Miss M is 
compensated for this, and £100 is a reasonable amount to recognise what shed gone 
through. 
While the car was in repair, I think its also fair to recognise the degree of loss of use that 
Miss M would have experienced having to use another car for six days that wasnt hers. So, I 
think its fair that she is compensated for this also by way of a percentage refund of her 
monthly payment. In consideration of the time she spent without her car I think 20 percent is 
a fair reflection of this.
Miss M also complains that Motonovo told her shed be reimbursed for any incurred costs 
while her car was being repaired. Having considered everything its likely that Miss M would 
have had to pay fuel costs whether shed been using her car or a courtesy car, so I dont 
think its fair to ask Motonovo to pay for this.I acknowledge that Motonovo feels that the age, mileage and condition of the car, along with 
the previous repairs may have added to the failure of the turbo; and so be an issue for the 
warranty provider to fix. However, in consideration of everything, the car supplied to Miss M 
experienced issues with the spark plugs and coil pack, that were repaired by an approved 
repairer of the manufacturer. Ive also been provided with no evidence to suggest that the 
replacement of those items had failed or had caused further detriment in any way. As 
Motonovo were responsible for providing Miss M with a car of satisfactory quality, in the 
circumstances of Miss Ms car, I think its reasonable that I hold them accountable for its 
durability and quality.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and instruct Motonovo Finance Limited 
to:
refund to Miss M 20% of her June 2020 payment to cover the loss of use. This 
amounts to £59.55
pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused
Motonovo Finance Limited should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
If Motonovo Finance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss M how much its 
taken off. It should also give Miss M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman