DRN-2656952
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Soteria Insurance Limited declined a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C holds a motor insurance policy with Soteria which he took out via a broker. He called 
his insurance broker to make a claim for damage to his vehicle after it was involved in an 
incident. When Mr C called to make the claim, he told his broker that the car was being 
driven by one of his nephews. The call handler explained that Mr Cs nephews werent 
covered by the policy and said theyd need to put Mr C through to a different department. 
After being on hold for a number of minutes, the call ended, and Mr C wasnt passed though 
to any other department and his claim wasnt progressed.
Mr C called back later the same day to progress his claim. On this second call he was 
transferred to the claims department. But in this call, he said he was driving the car when it 
was involved in the incident.
Soteria declined Mr Cs claim. It said it thought it most likely that one of Mr Cs nephews was 
driving the car at the time of the incident as that was what Mr C told the broker when he 
reported the incident. And it said that as they werent listed on the policy, they policy didnt 
provide cover.
Mr C wasnt happy with this decision and complained to Soteria. He said during the first call 
he was dazed by the incident. He said he was driving the car when it was involved in the 
incident and that Soteria should pay his claim.
Soteria maintained its decision. It said it was more persuaded by the first call Mr C made 
where he said the car was being driven by one of his nephews because its said at this point, 
there was no reason for Mr C to have said anything other than what happened.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into Mr Cs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought it was fair that Soteria 
rely on the first notification of loss call. And she thought it was clear in this call that Mr C said 
it was one of his nephews, not him that was driving the car at the time of the incident. She 
looked at Mr Cs policy and saw that his nephews werent listed on the policy, and so thought 
Soterias decision not to pay Mr Cs claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C disagreed. He maintains it was him driving the car at the time of the incident and 
doesnt think its fair Soteria are relying on a call where hes said he was dazed and 
confused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I know this answer will disappoint him. 
But Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mr Cs policy provides cover for him, and any other driver listed on it. Looking at the 
schedule, there are no other drivers listed on his policy. Which means his policy with Soteria 
only covers him for using his car, it doesnt cover anyone else using it.
I think its reasonable that Soteria rely on the first notification of loss call. These calls are 
generally considered to be the most accurate reflection of events. Theres no reason for 
Mr C to tell Soteria anything other than what happened. And in this first call he clearly says 
the car was being driven by one of his nephews. When Mr C makes the second call, he says 
he was the driver. But at this point, he knew his policy provided no cover if his nephew was 
driving the car.
I wasnt present at the incident, neither was anyone from Soteria. I understand Mr Cs said 
he was and so I can understand why he feels strongly that the second call where he said he 
was the driver represents what actually happened. I cant say for certain who was driving the 
vehicle at the time of the incident and I appreciate Mr C said he was dazed and confused by 
the incident. But hes given two versions of events. In the first version of events hes told 
Soteria his nephew was driving and was informed his policy didnt provide cover for this. 
Hes then given a conflicting version of events after knowing his nephew wasnt covered and 
said that he was driving.
I think in light of all the circumstances, Soteria are acting fairly by relying on that first 
notification of loss call as the most likely version of events. In that version of events, Mr Cs 
nephew was driving the car, not Mr C. And as Mr Cs policy with Soteria only covers him to 
drive the car, not his nephew, I think Soteria are acting fairly and in in line with the policy 
terms when not paying Mr Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman