DRN-1135946
The complaint
Mr W complains about delays by HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) when sending 
security codes to approve card payments. 
What happened
Mr W says that after first direct started using the Verified by Visa process to approve card 
transactions he experienced delays receiving the One Time Passcode (OTP). On 5 March 
2019 Mr W called first direct when he didn't receive a OTP while trying to purchase goods 
online. first direct says it overrode the Verified by Visa authorisation process to approve Mr 
W's purchase.
Mr W complained about delays he's experienced receiving the OTP from first direct. first 
direct responded on 11 March 2019 but didn't uphold Mr W's complaint. first direct said the 
delay was likely to be with Mr W's mobile phone provider and that it had sent two OTPs to 
Mr W on 5 March 2019 when he tried to make his purchase. first direct sent Mr W another 
complaint response on 13 April 2019 but didn't agree any errors had been made. 
The complaint was referred to our service and passed to an investigator. He thought first 
direct had sent Mr W OTP codes in good time and had dealt with the complaint fairly. As a 
result, he didn't ask first direct to take any other action. Mr W didn't accept and remains of 
the view that the delays he experienced were teething problems that first direct experienced 
after introducing a new security system. Mr W asked to appeal so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr W's frustration that his card purchases didn't go through every time. Mr 
W has explained that there were delays receiving the OTP by text message that led to some 
purchases being abandoned, including cinema tickets. I understand Mr W wasted time on 
those transactions. I need to decide whether first direct is responsible for the delays Mr W 
experienced. 
Unfortunately, there is no systems evidence to verify exactly when first direct sent Mr W the 
OTPs on 5 March 2019. But the complaint notes I've seen show the complaint handler found 
evidence that Mr W was sent two OTPs by text message. One at 11:09 and the other at 
11:12. I note that Mr W has told us he attempted the transaction twice in a reasonably short 
period on 5 March 2019 and that neither text message was received. I think the information 
from first direct indicates it received two requests for an OTP to be sent within a few minutes 
and that it sent those on to Mr W's mobile phone provider to deliver. 
first direct's notes also say that the complaint handler found out the OTP text messages had 
been received by Mr W's mobile phone provider and were pending delivery when he called. As a result, first direct manually approved the payment Mr W wanted to make without 
having to complete the Verified by Visa process. 
Where information is unclear or incomplete I'll base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred based on all the available 
information and evidence. In this case, I think the information from first direct supports its 
claim that it did send OTPs to Mr W when he tried to make card purchases. I haven't been 
persuaded that first direct caused a delay in Mr W receiving the text messages containing 
OTPs. 
I don't doubt what Mr W has told us about the problems he experienced with OTPs last year. 
He's confirmed that the issue appears to have been resolved and I'm pleased he's able to 
fully use his account. I'm sorry to disappoint Mr W but I haven't been persuaded to uphold 
his complaint. On balance, I haven't found that first direct caused delays or failed to send 
OTPs to Mr W. I think first direct dealt with Mr W's complaint fairly so I'm not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman