DRN-2693638
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies, sold 
to them by West Bromwich Building Society for their mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about two PPI policies: one taken out in late 1995, that was cancelled in 
1999. And a second that was taken out in 2003. Both were paid for with regular monthly 
premiums, which did not attract interest. They each covered Mr and Mrs P in case either one 
or both of them was off work sick or lost their job.
I sent Mr and Mrs P and West Bromwich a provisional decision on 17 February 2021, to 
explain why I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
The 1995 sale
I dont think this policy was mis-sold, for the following reasons:
Both sides appear to accept that Mr and Mrs P were given a choice about whether theyd 
like PPI or not, and chose it at the time. This is reflected in the documents from the time, 
where the mortgage application offered them a choice and they ticked a box for PPI, then 
they signed and submitted a separate application form specifically for the policy.
West Bromwich recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P in 1995, so it had to check that the 
policy was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs P were eligible for the cover and 
werent affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. It wouldve paid out on top of 
their work benefits and offered them more comprehensive cover, especially for when their 
benefits reduced to just a fraction of their normal pay. It also meant they could effectively 
protect their savings, which I understand were quite limited at that time. I do understand that 
Mr and Mrs P felt secure in their roles, but accidents, illnesses and redundancies can and do 
happen, even in situations that feel secure. So overall, I think the PPI could have been 
useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible the information West Bromwich gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely 
to have changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs P chose to take out the policy, 
which indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like they were 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for 
Mr and Mrs P in case something went wrong. And the policy was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Mr and Mrs P could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think 
better information about the PPI was likely to have put them off taking it out. 
This means West Bromwich doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 1995 PPI policy to 
Mr and Mrs P.
But West Bromwich will pay back some of the cost of the 1995 PPI policy to Mr and Mrs P, 
because: 
West Bromwich got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because West Bromwich 
didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, West Bromwich has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
The 2003 sale
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think this second policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
Its not clear whether West Bromwich recommended this policy to Mr and Mrs P, or not. The 
requirements were less strict on West Bromwich if it didnt recommend it  so to be as fair to 
West Bromwich as possible, Ill assume it didnt.
That means West Bromwich didnt have to check whether the policy was right for Mr and 
Mrs P. But it did still have to give them information that was clear, fair, and not misleading, 
so that Mr and Mrs P could decide for themselves whether the policy was right for them.
Because of the time thats passed, there isnt still a record of what happened in the phone 
call where the PPI was sold. But that means I cannot be satisfied that Mr and Mrs P were 
given clear, fair information about the policys cost and benefit.
I do acknowledge that West Bromwich wrote to Mr and Mrs P once the PPIs free period ran 
out. But that only told them the total cost of their monthly repayments including the mortgage 
and everything else  it didnt tell them the specific cost of the PPI itself. And in any case, 
this was months after the sale  and the onus was on West Bromwich to give Mr and Mrs P 
clear information at the point of sale, and not to tell them key details later and leave it up to 
Mr and Mrs P to cancel it after the fact.
So Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs P were given sufficient information about the PPIs cost 
and benefit at the point of sale.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs P, since theyve provided substantial evidence 
showing that they had a very large amount of savings in 2003  significantly more, in fact, 
than the mortgage itself. 
Indeed, Mr and Mrs P not only had enough to clear the mortgage outright at that point, but 
they still had enough left over that  combined with their work benefits  wouldve meant 
they couldve covered their salaries for a considerable amount of time. So I think they had 
enough existing protection to not really need the PPI in 2003 at all.So had Mr and Mrs P been given clear enough information about the 2003 policys cost and 
benefit, I dont think they wouldve thought it was good value for money for them, and so 
I think its most likely they would not have bought it.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Both sides sent some further 
comments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P explained that in the 2003 sale, it felt to them that West Bromwich were 
recommending the policy. I do understand where theyre coming from. My reasoning here 
was that it wasnt clear to me whether this was definitely a recommended sale or not. But 
even if there wasnt a recommendation, and so even if I held West Bromwich to the less 
strict requirements, I still thought the 2003 policy had been mis-sold.
West Bromwich explained it had previously listened to calls from other sales of the type of 
policy from around 2003. It said that in those calls, it felt the cost and benefit of the PPI had 
been made sufficiently clear. But while I understand its point of view, it has not provided 
such evidence to me. Further, we look at each case on its individual merits. I cant fairly 
conclude that the cost and benefit were made clear in this particular sale on the basis that 
one side recalls seeing adequate sales in other cases.
West Bromwich also pointed out they wouldve detailed the cost and benefit on the policys 
annual statement. But the onus was on West Bromwich to make the cost and benefit clear at 
the point of sale  an annual statement wouldve been much too late in the day, so Im afraid 
this point isnt really relevant here.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
Putting things right
The 1995 sale
West Bromwich has to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. That means West Bromwich should pay back to 
Mr and Mrs P the extra they paid each month because the commission and profit share it got 
was more than 50% of the cost of the PPI. West Bromwich should also pay Mr and Mrs P 
8% simple interest on each payment.
The 2003 sale
West Bromwich Building Society needs to put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now 
if they hadnt taken out the 2003 policy. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been 
cancelled already, and West Bromwich should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P back the amount they paid each month for the 2003 PPI policy.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under the 2003 PPI policy, West Bromwich can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. I will note here that 
Mr and Mrs P say they have not made any claims on the policy or received any refunds 
at present.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires West Bromwich to take off tax from this interest. West Bromwich 
must give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and 
Mrs P can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The 1995 policy wasnt mis-sold  so West Bromwich Building Society doesnt have to 
refund it in full. But it does need to refund any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium.
The 2003 policy was mis-sold, so I direct West Bromwich Building Society to put that right in 
the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman