DRN-3882642
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Tipton & Coseley Building Society (Tipton) declined their 
application for a mortgage. They also feel that Tipton handled the application, and the 
communication of the result, badly.
What happened
In 2019, Mr and Mrs W decided that they wanted to convert an historic building into their 
family home. They began working with two companies to assist them in arranging the 
finance for what was inevitably going to be a complex project. One of those companies 
(Company A) acted as a mortgage intermediary (broker) for Mr and Mrs W. It then 
employed the services of a separate company to assist it (Company B).
Company B submitted a request for a Decision in Principle (DIP) to Tipton in November 
2019, and Tipton gave a DIP indicating it would be willing to lend Mr and Mrs W 
£249,900 on 5 December 2019.
Company B finally submitted a full and complete mortgage application to Tipton on 
28 August 2020, which began its review and underwriting process. At that point, 
Mr and Mrs W also paid a valuation fee. Tipton raised several queries with Company B 
during September 2020, which it responded to. 
Ultimately on 23 October 2020 Tiptons underwriters confirmed to Company B via email 
that the maximum it would be able to lend Mr and Mrs W was in fact £165,000. Tipton 
then informed Mr and Mrs W of this on the phone on 27 October 2020.
Ultimately, the conversion project did not go ahead.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Tipton about the fact that it did not honour the December 
2019 DIP and about poor communication from it during the subsequent application 
process. Tipton looked into the matter and accepted that it could have done more to 
keep Mr and Mrs W informed in the latter stages of this process, when it became clear 
that they were not being kept updated properly by either Company A or Company B. It 
also noted that it had failed to return Mr and Mrs Ws calls on two occasions. Having 
already refunded the valuation fee that Mr and Mrs W had paid, Tipton offered a further 
£1,000 in compensation for the service failures and delays.
Mr and Mrs W didnt think that was enough compensation, citing both financial losses and 
extreme disappointment suffered. Having considered all the evidence, the investigator 
thought that Tiptons offer to put right its failing was fair, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr 
and Mrs W disagree and have asked an ombudsman to look at their case.
For clarity, this decision will only consider the actions and possible mistakes of Tipton  not 
any other entity. There is also no agency relationship between Tipton and either Company A 
or Company B, who were effectively working for Mr and Mrs W in this process. So it cannot 
be held responsible for any failures by those firms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it, and Ill explain why. There are two separate issues 
in this case. Firstly, whether Tipton did anything wrong which led to the substantial gap 
between the potential borrowing set out in the DIP and what it was ultimately willing to 
actually lend once the full application had been received. Secondly, whether Tiptons 
communication and customer service through that process was lacking, and if so, what it 
should do to put things right. I will deal with them separately and in turn.
Was the difference between the DIP amount and ultimate lending decision the result of a 
mistake by Tipton?
I must underline the fact that a DIP is not a mortgage offer. It is an informal indication of the 
potential amount a lender might be willing to lend, subject to full application and 
underwriting. So if a potential borrower opts to spend money on the basis of a DIP, taking 
that as confirmation that a large enough mortgage will be provided, that is a substantial risk. 
Mr and Mrs W have mentioned some financial losses that fall into this category, for which I 
cannot hold Tipton responsible.
I can imagine how disappointing it must have been for Mr and Mrs W when it was confirmed 
that Tipton wouldnt be willing to lend the amount indicated in the DIP from December 2019. 
However, the full assessment which follows the DIP is inevitably a different and far more 
involved process. Each mortgage lender sets its own lending criteria, and changes them 
from time to time. But lenders are required to be transparent about the decisions they make. 
And I think Tipton was. Ive seen that it explained the basis of its concerns to Company B; 
what circumstances had not been clear to it in December 2019 when the DIP was given; the 
concerns caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on Mrs Ws ability to find another 
job; and overall how its decision was in line with its lending criteria. 
So it doesnt mean Tipton did anything wrong in reducing the amount it was willing to lend  
its criteria for a higher amount werent met when it reviewed the full application, and the 
affordability risk led it to offer significantly less.
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Tipton didnt provide a formal mortgage offer of 
£165,000, so they werent able to consider it. I dont accept that. Its clear that Tipton let 
Company B know via email that this was what it was willing to lend, and it would appear that 
there was no further communication to Tipton. Company B need only have let Tipton know if 
Mr and Mrs W did want to proceed with that lower amount. The lack of a formal mortgage 
offer didnt prevent the application proceeding on that basis.
Did Tipton make mistakes in its communication with Mr and Mrs W, and how should that be 
put right?
Where a customer has an intermediary, as is the case here, the expectation is that that 
intermediary manages the flow of information between potential borrower and lender, and 
there would typically be little to no direct contact. However, Tipton has already accepted that 
it could have done more to help keep Mr and Mrs W in the loop about the application once it 
became clear that information wasnt being cascaded to them by Company A or Company B. 
To recognise the delays, distress and inconvenience, it offered them £1,000. I understand 
that Mr and Mrs W havent cashed that cheque.Tipton has acknowledged its mistakes in its communication with Mr and Mrs W, and that this 
would have caused real distress and inconvenience at what was already a stressful time. 
From the call log and notes, it is clear that Mr and Mrs W were struggling to get updates on 
the application from mid-September 2020 until Tipton told them the outcome on 27 October 
2020. I think £1,000 is a fair offer to recognise the service failures in that timeframe, 
particularly given the existence of two intermediaries here. So I wont be asking Tipton to do 
anymore. However, I would expect it to honour its previous offer of £1,000 should Mr and 
Mrs W now wish to accept that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Tipton doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman