DRN-2908909
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA, wont reimburse the cost of a 
purchased item under their Buyer Protection scheme.
What happened
Mr A purchased a power assisted wheelchair online for his son. The wheelchair cost 
approximately £12,500 and Mr A had been assured by the seller that it had been crash 
tested and was safe for vehicular use.
When Mr A went to collect the wheelchair, he gave his phone to the seller to enter his 
payment details, but the seller changed the method of payment to family and friends without 
Mr A noticing.
Mr A later discovered that the wheelchair hadnt been crash tested and the label had been 
removed. This meant that it was unsafe for his son to use in a vehicle, which was the reason 
he was buying it.
Mr A contacted his bank who were able to stop the £12,500 payment from going through. 
However, PayPal did send the payment to the seller, and because of this PayPal contend 
that Mr A owes them £12,500.
Mr A raised a dispute under PayPals Buyer Protection scheme on the basis that the 
wheelchair was significantly not as described. But because the payment had been marked 
to family and friends the dispute wasnt upheld. Mr A wasnt happy about this, so he made a 
complaint.
PayPal looked at Mr As complaint. They noted that the terms of their Buyer Protection 
scheme confirm that payments sent to family and friends arent eligible for reimbursement. 
So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with PayPals response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that they could fairly 
hold PayPal accountable here, as it had been Mr As responsibility to ensure that the 
payment had taken place under the correct criteria. So, while they sympathised with Mr As 
position, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its difficult not to sympathise with Mr A here, and I can appreciate how distressing it must be 
to have discovered that the wheelchair hed purchased wasnt fit for the purpose hed been 
promised it would be. 
However, PayPals user agreement clearly states that payments sent to family and friends 
arent eligible for reimbursement under their Buyer Protection scheme.
This service does have the remit to instruct PayPal to reimburse a customer the cost of an 
item, but such an instruction would generally only be given when it can be demonstrated that 
PayPal have committed some form of error or omission that would make such an instruction 
reasonable.
Unfortunately, I cant conclude that PayPal have made any such error here. Indeed, I can 
only conclude that it would have been incumbent on Mr A to have ensured that the 
wheelchair was fit for purpose before he authorised the purchase, and to have ensured that 
the purchase was transacted under the correct criteria. 
Mr A has expressed his dissatisfaction to this service that PayPals Buyer Protection scheme 
operates in this manner. However, its beyond the remit of this service to comment on the 
operating model of a business, and so Im unable to consider these points further.
Mr A is also unhappy that PayPal paid the transaction without him having the relevant funds 
in his account. However, my understanding is that Mr A contacted his bank to stop the 
payment - which he did after authorising the payment via PayPal. 
As such, I dont appear to have been the case that Mr A didnt have the funds in his account 
at the time that he made the payment via PayPal, but rather that the funds were available in 
Mr As account, but that Mr A then contacted his bank to stop the funds being sent to PayPal 
before that aspect of the transaction could be completed. And, given these circumstances, 
its difficult to find fault with PayPal for holding Mr A accountable for the payment he had 
already authorised and which they had already made. 
All of which means that, while I can appreciate the difficult position that Mr A finds himself in 
here, and while I hope that Mr A will be able to recover the cost of his outlay via other 
means, Im unable to conclude that PayPal have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
the reimbursement under their Buyer Protection scheme that Mr A would like here. And it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking PayPal to take any further 
action at this time.
I trust that Mr A will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman