DRN-3946378
The complaint
Mrs S complains that the car she acquired financed through a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services, wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
A car was supplied to Mrs S financed through a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse, 
that she signed in May 2019. The car that was supplied to Mrs S was new with only 5 miles 
on the odometer and had a price of £37,274.62. 
Mrs S said from September 2021 she began experiencing problems with the vehicle 
including:
squeaking noise from the brakes
burning smell
fuel smell
Mrs S took the vehicle to the dealership on several occasions for repairs to be carried out. 
The dealership provided the following timeline of events:
1 April 2021 at 6,626 miles - the vehicle had its first service. 
24 September 2021 at 10,501 miles - squeaking brakes - stripped and cleaned. 
11 February 2022 at 12,587 miles - squeaking brakes, a reported burning smell, and 
a smell of fuel, vehicle was recovered - replacement of gasket between catalytic 
convertor and the turbo. 
25 April 2022 at 12,875  squeaking brakes, the burning smell and report of fumes in 
the cabin - exhaust system leak test, new cabin filter and bulkhead NVH panel. 
Brakes stripped and cleaned again. Upon driving away the noise returned so the 
vehicle was booked back in. 
28 April 2022 - the brake pads and disks were replaced under good will. 
16 May 2022  video sent with squeaking brakes - diagnosed rear brakes at fault, the 
workshop controller advised the pads are too hard and cannot be repaired. 
Mrs S said however that the issue with fuel smell inside the car is ongoing and so is the 
smoke from the engine. She said in June 2022 her family travelled across the country by car. 
She said the fuel smell was very strong and there was smoke from the engine. She said she 
contacted roadside assistance, who checked the car and advised of a leaked turbo to the 
exhaust pipe. She said she was told the car wasnt road safe and the issue should have 
been identified a long time ago. 
Mrs S brought a complaint to Black Horse. In its final response Black Horse concluded that it 
wasn't responsible for the concerns raised by Mrs S as the faults werent developing at the 
point of sale. Unhappy with this response Mrs S brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator concluded that the brake squeak was a defect rather than a characteristic of the 
car. She thought it likely that the defect was present at the point of sale and so concluded 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
Mrs S said she had no confidence in the safety of the car so she sold it and settled the credit 
agreement on 24 July 2022. Our investigator recommended Black Horse: 
refund 10% of the rental payments made from September 2021 up until Mrs S settled 
the credit agreement to cover any loss of use or impaired use of the car 
pay 8% simple yearly interest or refunded amounts from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement
pay a further amount of £150 for any distress or inconvenience that's been caused
Black Horse asked for clarity on the refund of rental payments but did not dispute the 
investigators findings. Mrs S asked for a decision from an ombudsman. She wasn't satisfied 
with the level of compensation. She said she had entered into a new agreement with higher 
payments because Black Horse left her with no other choice. She said she is paying £200 
more each month because Black Horse didn't repair the car when it said it would. Mrs S 
thought Black Horse should give her back her full monthly rentals from when she first 
reported the fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator and for the following reasons:
Black Horse, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs S  whether it was of satisfactory quality at 
that time will depend on several factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it.
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will 
also depend on several factors. Mrs S acquired a new car and as such I would expect it to 
be free from even minor defects.
Brakes
Its generally accepted there is a squealing sound with the brakes. I can see that the garage 
has looked at the brakes several times and despite doing three repairs it has been unable to 
eradicate the squealing sound. Black Horse has said that many things had been attempted 
in good will to improve the brakes however it is a characteristic of the vehicle. It said it 
contacted the manufacturer for further comment. It said:
There is no evidence to suggest a manufacturing defect is the root cause of the brake 
noise. Sometimes, in certain environments/conditions, the brakes can make a noise - but 
this is normal and is not an indication of a manufacturing defect. All of the actions listed 
would be 'normal' repairs for the concern described and there are no further actions that 
we could recommend to the retailer. The braking systems are designed to achieve peak 
performance under a broad range of driving conditions. The manufacturers priority is the 
safety of its braking systems, and they are designed to perform in all circumstances, 
however the brake may, depended on the environment and driving style, produce the 
occasional noise. This does not impair the operation or performance. Brake noise is an 
issue facing many vehicle manufacturers and it is constantly working in conjunction with 
the leading brake calliper and brake pad suppliers to develop design solutions which 
reduce brake squeal noises. However, some situations with low brake usage, or through 
the use of non-manufacturer approved cleaners, can lead to a build-up of surface corrosion on the disc - this surface corrosion build-up does not adversely affect brake 
performance. 
I understand that the first time Mrs S complained of the brakes was 27 months after 
acquiring the car and having driven 10,500 miles. Mrs S has provided a video recording of 
the brake sound which Ive listened to. I found it very loud, high pitched, unpleasant, and 
uncomfortable and I dont think a reasonable person would consider such a noise to be 
normal or a characteristic of a fairly new vehicle. Im not disputing the technical response 
from the manufacturer that the brakes are safe irrespective of the noise. Ive no reason to 
doubt this. But Mrs S had the squeaking brakes for over a year and was concerned enough 
for her to return the car to the garage three times and at each point a repair was attempted 
and failed. 
The manufacturer has said theres no evidence to suggest a manufacturing defect is the root 
cause of the brake noise. Its suggested that low brake usage or using non-manufacture 
approved cleaners may contribute to the problem. But Mrs S has had the brakes serviced. 
They were squeaking before and after being stripped and cleaned twice and squeaking 
again after the pads and discs were replaced.
Where evidence is missing, disputed or unclear my role is to decide based on the balance of 
probability, that is what I believe is likely to have happened. Given that the garage has tried 
several times to stop the squeak and failed I think it likely that there is a manufacturing 
defect within the vehicle. And having heard the squeak myself I dont consider it reasonable 
that Mrs S and her family had to tolerate it as a characteristic of the car. So I dont consider 
the vehicle was of satisfactory quality. 
Burning smell and fuel smell
Mrs S said the issues with the fuel and burning smells continued. Black Horse said the 
burning smell may have happened due to low mileage being covered and a build-up on the 
diesel particulate filter (DPF) can cause more pressure and cause a sudden failure.
It said the manufacturer advised this would not have been present or developing at the time 
of sale due to elapsed time. It said DPF build-up can be impacted by low usage of the 
vehicle
Regarding the fuel smell Black Horse said this was caused by exhaust leaking which 
required a new cabin filter. It said this is a part that wears over time and something that 
would not have been present or developing at the time of sale. 
Im not disputing Mrs S or doubting her experience with the burning and fuel smells. Nor do I 
dispute Black Horses comments explaining them. If the car was still available I would 
recommend an independent inspection to determine the cause and whether the faults were 
present at the point of sale or as a result of a manufacturing defect. As Mrs S has sold the 
car this isnt possible. And I dont think I have enough evidence to say with any degree of 
certainty if these faults contribute to my finding that the car was likely of unsatisfactory 
quality because of the brakes. 
In such circumstances I would allow Mrs S to reject the car. As she has sold it this is no 
longer possible. Mrs S sold the car for £26,950. She used £24,597.84 from that to settle her 
finance agreement with Black Horse, leaving her with a surplus of £2,352.16 which is more 
than the deposit she paid when she entered the agreement. So, Im not instructing Black 
Horse to refund the deposit.
Our investigator recommended a 10% refund of payments made from September 2021 to the date of settlement to reflect the impaired use caused by the car not being of satisfactory 
quality. Mrs S has asked for full payments to be refunded. She said she was assured by the 
dealer that the vehicle was in driving condition even with the issues noted and that the noise 
from the car is part of the vehicle characteristics. She said on several occasions she told 
them she didnt feel safe driving the car with her child in it. But she had no other option as 
she had no alternative car. 
I do understand Mrs Ss concerns and she has my sympathies. But as I dont have enough 
evidence to conclude that the fuel and burning smells contributed to the car being of 
unsatisfactory quality and I'm not disputing that the brakes were safe I can only make an 
award for impaired use for the brakes squeaking. And as Mrs S did use the car I think 10% 
of the payments from September 2021 to be fair and reasonable. 
Mrs S said as a result of selling the car she entered into an agreement with higher payments 
because Black Horse left her with no other choice. While I do understand why Mrs S felt she 
had to sell the car this was her choice to make. As was buying a more expensive car and 
entering into a more expensive finance agreement. This isnt something I can hold Black 
Horse responsible for. 
I can see that this situation has caused Mrs S some distress so I will be instructing Black 
Horse to pay her £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Black Horse Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services 
must:
1. refund 10% of the instalments Mrs S paid from September 2021 up to 29 July 2022
2. pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement
3. pay a further amount of £150 for any distress or inconvenience caused to Mrs S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Black Horse Limited, trading as Land 
Rover Financial Services must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman