DRN-4384615
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) is refusing to refund 
him the amount he lost as the result of two scams.
Mr M is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr M 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
Since bringing this complaint to our service Mr M has accepted that Halifax is not 
responsible for the money he lost in the first scam, where payments took place between 
January 2020 and February 2020.
As Mr M has accepted this my decision will concentrate on the second scam only. 
There is some confusion over how Mr M became involved with the scammer (X). He has 
given different accounts. One being he found a blog online and clicked on a link to the 
investment, another being that he found the investment via Facebook, and a third being that 
he had followed a thread of genuine emails from a well-known celebrity that he trusted to be 
genuine. However, Mr M has also explained on every occasion that he was required to 
submit his personal information and make an initial payment so that a trading account could 
be setup.
Mr M explained he was then told to download the Payward app to buy cryptocurrency 
through Kracken, although he doesnt appear to be certain whether the Kracken account 
was in his name.
Mr M says X told him it had bought a large amount of cryptocurrency at a reduced price and 
that it was passing this benefit onto its customers. If Mr M was to become involved in the 
investment, he would make an instant return.
Persuaded by X Mr M agreed to start investing. Mr M made the following payments:
Date Merchant Amount Payment Method
6 August 2020 Payward Ltd £1,000.00 Transfer
10 August 2020 Payward Ltd £20,700.00 Transfer
10 August 2020 Payward Ltd £50.00 Transfer
11 August 2020 Payward Ltd £5,000.00 Transfer
12 August 2020 Payward Ltd £1,000.00 Transfer
13 August 2020 Payward Ltd £2,000.00 Transfer
19 August 2020 Payward Ltd - £1,497.25 Refund
4 September 2020 Payward Ltd - £1,989.54 Refund
10 September 2020 Payward Ltd - £996.33 Refund
Mr M decided he wanted to meet X before agreeing to make any further investments. X 
agreed to a meeting but cancelled which caused Mr M concerns over the investment and he 
requested to withdraw his funds. 
Mr M was then told that if he wanted to withdraw his investment X would be entitled to 20% 
of the balance. Mr M agreed to this, but X explained the 20% payment would have to be 
made by him first. 
Given the actions of X Mr M realised he had fallen victim to a scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr M has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr M and Halifax sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Halifax 
should refund the money Mr M lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr M made
Mr M made payments into the scam via the method of transfer. When payments are made in 
this way Halifax has limited options available to recover them.
I have considered if Mr M should have received a refund under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But the CRM code only applies when domestic 
payments (as the result of a scam) are sent to another person. Here I think its most likely Mr 
M sent the payments to an account held in his own name. So, Im satisfied the CRM Code 
wouldnt apply in this scenario.
With the above in mind, I dont think Halifax had any recovery options available to it for the 
payments Mr M made.
Should Halifax have reasonably prevented the payments Mr M made? 
It has been accepted that Mr M authorised the payments that were made from his account 
with Halifax, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr M is responsible.
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Halifax should have been aware of the scam and stepped into 
question Mr M about the payments he was making. And if it had questioned Mr M, would it 
have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
The first payment Mr M made into the scam was for £1,000. Considering the size of this 
payment and that it was sent to a legitimate business I dont think it was unreasonable that 
this payment didnt trigger Halifaxs fraud prevention systems, and that it didnt step into 
question Mr M.
The second payment Mr M made into the scam was for a much larger amount of £20,700. 
This payment triggered Halifaxs fraud prevention systems and a text message was sent to 
Mr M to call the bank before the payment could be processed. Halifax has provided a copy of this call to us. During the call Mr M explains he found the 
investment via Facebook. But he also went on to say that the payments were his idea and 
that he had already made a profit on the first payment he had made. 
There were no warnings available about the company Mr M was investing with at the time of 
the call, and Mr M has confirmed that he was coached by X on what to tell the bank when 
making the payments. 
While Halifax could have done more in the call it had with Mr M, ultimately, I think that Mr M 
had complete trust in the scam that was presented to him and was sold on how persuasive 
and credible X appeared to be. I dont think any further intervention would have dissuaded 
Mr M from making the payments.
The remaining payments Mr M made were for smaller amounts that I wouldnt have 
expected to trigger Halifaxs fraud prevention systems, especially as he had already 
confirmed a much larger payment to the same business was legitimate.
So, Halifax is not responsible for Mr Ms loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman