DRN-3727258
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC havent refunded money he lost as a result of a 
scam and for not explaining the chargeback process to him. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr D was contacted by a merchant, Ill refer to here as T. T asked Mr D to 
start sending money to it through two legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges. So, Mr D sent 
three payments totalling £7,265 (£365, £4,300 and £2,600) over the course of twelve days. 
In May 2021, Mr D went into a Barclays branch to raise a claim and to see if he could get his 
money back. A chargeback was raised, and all the funds were placed back into his account. 
A few months later, Barclays took the money out of Mr Ds account leaving him overdrawn. It 
said that the cryptocurrency exchanges had responded to the chargebacks saying they 
provided the service that Mr D had paid for. So, Barclays decided not to pursue the 
chargeback any further. Because Mr D wasnt able to pay-back the money he owed to 
Barclays he made a complaint. But Barclays said it wouldnt refund Mr Ds money as it 
hadnt done anything wrong. So, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that Barclays had 
attempted a chargeback but didnt treat Mr D unfairly when it decided not to pursue this 
further. And that Barclays stopped the second transaction and spoke to Mr D about the 
investment. But she didnt think a fraud and scams warning wouldve made a difference 
here. The investigator added that Barclays sent letters to Mr Ds home address which 
explained the refund was only temporary. So, she didnt think Barclays treated Mr D unfairly 
when it took the money from his account. 
Mr D disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said Barclays had unfairly 
taken the money from his account and that more shouldve been done to stop the scam from 
happening in the first place. He said if it had been explained to him the credits to his account 
following the chargebacks being raised were only going to be temporary then he wouldnt 
have accepted the payment or he wouldnt have spent the money.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr D feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Recovery
Ive thought about whether Barclays did enough to attempt to recover the money Mr D lost, 
as there are some instances where debit card transactions can be refunded through making 
a chargeback claim. But in this case, a chargeback wouldnt have been successful, as the 
payments Mr D used his debit card for were to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges for the 
purchase of cryptocurrency, which he duly received and has been confirmed by the two 
exchanges to Barclays. 
The money was subsequently lost from the crypto platform when he transferred the funds to 
the scammer. So, he couldnt claim that he didnt receive the goods or services paid for from 
his Barclays account, which was the purchase of the cryptocurrency. As a result, I dont think 
Barclays have acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback claim here.
Did Barclays act reasonably when it removed the money from Mr Ds account?
Mr D is unhappy that the money was credited to his account and the chargeback process 
wasnt explained to him. He said when the money was credited to his account he was in the 
branch and thought the money in his account was then his to spend. 
Barclays has provided copies of the letters it sent to Mr D at the time which explain that the 
money was refunded to his account on a temporary basis. Mr D has confirmed he was 
working away from home at the time, so he didnt see the letters. 
I can see that Barclays sent letters to Mr D which said he was being given a temporary 
refund. This is a common action taken by all banks when a chargeback is raised - and I dont 
consider it to be unfair. And Im afraid when the chargeback was unsuccessful, Barclays is 
entitled to remove the money it put into his account temporarily. 
Mr D has said that its not fair for Barclays to rely on letters sent after he visited the branch 
and if it had explained things to him, he wouldnt have accepted the money or spent it. 
But Im afraid I dont agree. I accept Mr D says he wasnt aware the money could be taken 
back by Barclays after the chargeback was raised in the branch and that he was working 
away from home a lot afterwards. But I dont think its likely that all three of the letters werent 
received at his address or seen by him. And even though Mr D has said he was working 
away from home a lot at the time and the letters seen a few weeks after, I can see payments 
on his statements at his local supermarkets in June 2021 when there was around £16,000 in 
his account with the account balance increasing to around £24,000 later that month. So, Im 
satisfied there was enough time for Mr D to decide not to spend all the money that was 
temporarily put into his account a few weeks after the conversation he had in branch. 
So, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything more in relation to the chargeback here. 
Prevention
While I dont think that Barclays could have done more with regards to the recovery of Mr Ds 
funds once it was made aware of the situation, Ive also considered whether it ought to have 
intervened before allowing any of the payments to be made.
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for authorised payments rests with the payer, even where they are duped into 
making that payment. There is no dispute that Mr D made the payments, and so they were 
authorised. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
What this means is that as a starting point Mr D is liable for these transactions unless theres 
evidence that Barclays could and should reasonably have done more to protect him and that 
this would have made a difference. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time. Barclays ought to have been 
monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual 
transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some 
situations, make additional checks before processing payments, or declined them altogether, 
to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
It isnt in dispute that Barclays has (and had) obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in its 
customers best interests. So, the starting point here is whether the instructions Mr D gave to 
Barclays when authorising the debit card payments were unusual in relation to the typical 
account activity.
I agree with the investigator that the second payment was unusual and shouldve triggered 
on Barclayss systems. So, I need to consider here whether any further intervention from 
Barclays wouldve made a difference. Having done so, Im satisfied a generic fraud and 
scams warning wouldnt have made a difference here. 
Barclays call notes show that Mr D was warned about the presence of some remote access 
software on his device during the first conversation that took place after he made the second 
payment. Barclays asked a few questions about why Mr D was making the payment and that 
the reason it was checking was because remote access software was a common technique 
used by scammers. 
At the end of this first call Barclays asked Mr D to go through some further questions in 
relation to the investment and to ask him whether it was a genuine company using the 
software but Mr D said he was going to go away and check the merchant himself to see if 
they were genuine. Mr D was told to go back and check the merchant to see if this was likely 
a scam and to call Barclays back. Barclays also told him that his mobile banking and card 
had been blocked until Mr D had done his research and called back. 
When Mr D called back, he told Barclays that he was happy that the remote access software 
he had downloaded was only to complete a form and that it was him that accessed his 
mobile banking not a third-party. He was told to remove the software because this was a 
common technique used by scammers and was reissued a new card and new online and 
mobile banking credentials.  
So, Im not satisfied that Barclays providing a generic fraud and scams warning to Mr D after 
he made the second payment here wouldve made a difference. Its clear that Mr D was 
under the influence of the scammers throughout the scam. Even to the point where Barclays 
mentioning remote access software being used in scams didnt faze Mr D from continuing to 
invest his money (Mr D made a further £2,600 payment eight days later). Barclays tried to 
ask Mr D further questions, but Mr D said he would complete any further due diligence 
himself and his family had invested with this merchant. So, I dont think its unreasonable for 
Barclays to think that Mr D was happy with the research he had completed when he called 
back and had been told about the issues of scammers using remote access software. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Barclays can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman