DRN-3061184
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc recorded a default on his credit file in error.
What happened
Mr G said he closed an account he had with HSBC in October 2018. He said he then 
received communication from a debt management company, W, which said he owed £251. 
Mr G said he had already paid this. He contacted W and said he resolved the situation. Mr G 
then explained that although he closed his bank account with a zero balance, HSBC still 
referred his account to W and recorded a default on his credit file.
Mr G said up to when he closed the account HSBC had his old address on file. He said any 
correspondence HSBC had sent him was going to his old address. Mr G said he tried to 
resolve the situation at a branch but was directed to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He 
received two cheques from HSBC, for £25 and £50 which he assumed was as a response to 
his complaint. He brought his complaint to this service.
HSBC hadnt had the chance to investigate Mr Cs complaint or issue a final response. But 
under the early consent rule and with permission from HSBC, our investigator was able to 
look into Mr Gs complaint. She said she hadnt seen evidence Mr C was sent a default 
notice or told that a default would be applied to his credit file.
HSBC disagreed with this view. It said it issued a pre-demand letter which was its version of 
a default notice on 24 July 2018. The investigator believed the letter sent was ambiguous. 
HSBC asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I wrote a provisional decision on 31 August 2021. I said I believed the requirements of 
default notices are clear. And they appeared to have been met here. I said: 
Was there an overdraft debt and when was the default applied?
HSBC said Mr Gs bank account was overdrawn for several months and in July it 
wrote to him to advise the account was overdrawn by £706.99. This balance is 
confirmed on the bank statements provided. Ive seen a copy of the letter sent dated 
9 July. The letter informed Mr G his overdraft was £706.99 but his arranged overdraft 
limit was £300, so HSBC cancelled the overdraft limit. The letter invited Mr G to 
contact the bank to discuss a repayment plan. HSBC said it sent a pre-demand 
letter to Mr G on 24 July and advised if the account wasnt paid in full a final demand 
would be sent. Ive seen a copy of this letter.
HSBC said it received a payment of £219.53 on 22 August which brought the 
overdrawn balance to £528.21. As the balance wasnt paid in full, it sent Mr G a final 
demand on 6 September. HSBC said it received a further payment of £264.00 on 21 
September and £10.00 on 7 October, which left a balance of £254.21 on the account. 
Again, this is confirmed on the bank statements and Ive seen a copy of the final 
demand. 
On 8 October the account was closed and on 11 October HSBC said it passed the 
debt to its internal debt collector, D, and registered a default against Mr G. 
Having seen the account bank statements Im satisfied that Mr G did have an 
outstanding balance on 8 October, which, despite HSBCs correspondence, was not 
paid in full. And Im persuaded it was reasonable for HSBC to record a default on Mr 
Gs credit file.
Did HSBC issue a default notice, and did it send it to the correct address?
On 24 July HSBC sent a pre-demand letter. HSBC told this service that this letter is 
its default notice. It said it sent the letter correctly and it explicitly advises of what 
action can and will be taken if the customer does not make contact or make 
arrangements to repay the outstanding balance. It added that its terms and privacy 
notice tell customers it notifies agencies where relevant. It said there is nothing 
ambiguous about its letter, which states at the outset To stop Demand being 
issued. It said this is clear enough.
Section 88 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 sets out the contents and effect of a 
default notice. It says:
(1)
The notice must specify the nature of the alleged breach;
If the breach is capable of remedy what action is required to remedy it and the 
date before which that action is to be taken;
If the breach is not capable of remedy, the sum (if any) required to be paid as 
compensation for the breach, and the date before which it is to be repaid.
(4)
The default notice must contain information in the prescribed terms about the 
consequences of failure to comply 
Im satisfied the letter of 24 July adheres to these criteria. In the letter dated 9 July 
HSBC notifies Mr G that the arranged overdraft limit has been cancelled and 
immediate payment is needed per the terms and conditions of the account; overdraft 
facilities are repayable on demand. The notice letter of 24 July identifies the alleged 
breach as not having received an acceptable proposal for repayment and stipulates 
the time frame after which final demand would be issued. And Im satisfied the letter 
outlines the consequences of failure to comply  this includes that HSBC may pass 
the customers details onto a credit reference agency which could adversely affect 
the customers ability to obtain credit in the future. And that the account may be 
passed to a third-party debt collection agency. I dont find this ambiguous.
Mr G has said he didnt receive any letters because HSBC had the wrong address for 
him. Mr G said he moved into his new property around March/April and he made 
HSBC aware of this by telephone a few months later at the latest, around June or 
July. In his complaint call to this service Mr G said he was aware HSBC held the 
incorrect address for him and he called HSBC again and advised them of the 
address situation and my plan to close down my accounts.
Im not disputing Mr G when he says he contacted the bank to change his address. 
But he has acknowledged he didnt receive the letters because he knew HSBC had 
the wrong address. It was Mr Gs responsibility, per the terms and conditions of his 
account, to correct this. It says:If we need to tell you anything about our service, well use the most recent postal 
address, email address, telephone and mobile numbers youve given us
You must tell us as soon as possible if any of your contact details change. If you 
dont, we wont be responsible if you dont get information or notices from us. 
Im satisfied the letters were sent by HSBC. Mr G hasnt said specifically when he 
changed the address, and it does appear that in July HSBC were sending them to Mr 
Gs old address. But it was Mr Gs responsibility to change his contact details with 
HSBC and to check this had been implemented.
Was Mr G told the account had no money owing?
In November 2019 the debt was referred to the external debt management company, 
W. HSBC said Mr G contacted it in January 2019 advising hed called HSBC in 
October and been told nothing was outstanding. HSBC said Mr Gs statements 
confirm he did still owe money. It said the only call it had a record of was on 19 
October to close Mr Gs savings account; after his current account was closed and 
the default was registered. To resolve this complaint, HSBC said it credited Mr Gs 
account with £254.21, which allowed him to repay the debt at no cost. HSBC said it 
couldnt confirm whether Mr G was told the account had no money owing.
As there is no record of Mr Gs call to the bank closing his current account HSBC has 
given Mr G the benefit of doubt and paid him £254.21. Mr G told this service that he 
closed his current account on 13 October and paid the outstanding amount. There is 
no record of Mr G making the outstanding payment before 8 October when the 
account was closed or 11 October when the default was applied. So I accept Mr G 
may have been told in error that there was no balance outstanding on 13 October but 
Im satisfied there was an outstanding balance on the account on 11 October and the 
default was correctly applied.
Mr G has told us he moved address in March or April and told HSBC his new 
address in June or July. On Mr Gs statement I can see he exceeded his overdraft 
limit in February up to £794 and then made payments which brought him back into 
credit later in the month. A similar situation occurred in March, then from 9 April 
onwards the account exceeded the overdraft again. The May and June statements 
posted to him would have confirmed this. I can see that Mr G also had several 
returned direct debits. In addition he made deposits in August and September. So, 
Im satisfied he was actively engaged with the account and aware of payments going 
in.
Im persuaded Mr G knew his bank balance prior to moving house as he wouldve 
received statements, and the balance was close to the overdraft limit. Its also 
possible he was made aware of the returned direct debits by the third parties 
involved. So even if the default notice was ambiguous or he didnt receive it, Im 
satisfied Mr G was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware of his balance 
and that payment would be required between April and 11 October when the default 
was applied or 13 October when Mr G said he closed the account. 
The recent cheques HSBC issued relate to remedial action taken across a whole 
range of customers and service issues. It said these did not relate to Mr Gs 
individual issues in 2018.
HSBC responded saying it had nothing further to add. Mr G did not agree. He made some 
further comments and provided additional documents to which I have responded below. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I believe my provisional decision still stands. 
Mr G said he feels there have been errors on both sides yet he is the only one paying for the 
mistakes, in the form of a default on his credit file for six years. He provided a screen shot of 
an email from HSBC on 13 October which, he said states his current account was closed but 
he cant find any communication in relation to a default. 
I understand Mr Gs strength of feeling in this matter, but I dont agree that HSBC has made 
an error in applying the default. Ive seen a copy of the bank statements which clearly say 
the account closed on 8 October. I note that HSBC said it transferred the debt to its internal 
debt collector on 8 October which is a correction on my provisional decision. I previously 
said this happened on 11 October. I can see from the final statement that this was 8 
October. The screenshot Mr G has provided is a cover email for providing him with a 
transaction history on the closure of the account. Although there is no transaction history 
provided in this email it seems likely it would contain the same information as the 
statements. 
Mr G asked to see communication regarding the default. As I said in my provisional decision, 
Im satisfied HSBC sent him communication regarding the default. The letter said that HSBC 
may pass the customers details onto a credit reference agency which could adversely affect 
the customers ability to obtain credit in the future. And that the account may be passed to a 
third-party debt collection agency. The letter HSBC sent is a pre-demand letter. HSBC told 
this service that this letter is its default notice. And Im satisfied this complies with the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, the regulations relevant at the time.  
Mr G also said he had called HSBC to change his address so that all further communication 
would be received, yet it had no proof of the call which, he said, was convenient. I note that 
Mr G said he moved into his new property around March/April and he made HSBC aware of 
this by telephone a few months later at the latest, around June or July. Mr G accepted he 
was aware HSBC held the incorrect address for him and he called HSBC again and advised 
them of the address situation and my plan to close down my accounts.
Im not disputing Mr G when he said he called HSBC to change his address. But by his own 
admission he was aware it hadnt been changed because he said he advised HSBC at the 
same time as informing it of his plan to close his accounts. In July the pre-Demand letter was 
sent but he was aware it didnt have his correct address around October when he said he 
went to close his accounts. It was Mr Gs responsibility to ensure HSBC had the correct 
address. 
Mr G said HSBC had his email address but still he received no communication regarding a 
default. Generally, I would expect a financial business to post such formal communication 
rather than use email. 
Mr G said he was paying off the amount he owed, and he said he called up to discuss 
financial issues. I can see Mr G made some payments into the account, but these were not 
enough to clear the debt in time. I dont dispute Mr G but I havent seen any evidence that Mr 
G called to discuss financial issues. Mr G also mentioned the cheques HSBC sent regarding customer service errors. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision these compensation payments were unrelated to this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman