DRN-3501177
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s decision to 
decline a theft claim she made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Mrs B said her handbag was stolen while she was out with her family. She said 
shed left it on her grandchilds pushchair and noticed it was gone when they returned to 
their holiday accommodation. Mrs B says she didnt leave the pushchair unattended. 
Mrs B made a claim to her insurer, RSA. After investigating the claim, RSA decided to reject 
it and gave Mrs B notice to cancel her policy. 
Mrs B was very unhappy with RSAs decision and so she complained. But RSA said its 
decision to reject the claim and then cancel her policy was correct.
Mrs B asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought RSA had acted 
reasonably. 
Mrs B didnt agree. In summary she says she has been a victim of crime but has been made 
to feel like a criminal. She says she provided RSA with everything she could to validate her 
claim. 
Mrs B told us she may be able to provide receipts for some of the jewellery if she checks 
further. We passed this information to RSA. But it said its decision remained unchanged. Our 
Investigator didnt change her view. 
So Mrs B wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B told RSA that she her and her family were on holiday at a caravan park. She said she 
had a number of valuable items in her handbag which was stolen while they were at 
amusement arcades. Mrs B said she reported the theft to the police. She said the police 
asked the arcade for CCTV footage but they refused to provide any to the police. 
Mrs B says she had the following items in her bag when it was stolen:
two electronic tablets, a purse with £600 cash, three men's gold necklaces, two men's rings, 
two men's bracelets, six gold necklaces, twelve gold bracelets, six gold rings and a diamond 
engagement ring. 
Mrs B said she didnt like to keep valuables in the caravan for security reasons as she was 
worried about previous thefts from caravans on the site. She says they didnt wear their 
jewellery unless they were going out at night. She says her family had been swimming 
earlier in the day and so hadnt put any jewellery back on. 
Mrs B says she bought the tablets for her grandchildren from a car boot sale. She said she 
didnt have a receipt, hadnt received a box with them and so had no record of their serial 
numbers. 
Mrs B contacted the retailer as RSA asked her to provide details of accessing the tablets via 
internet and/or an online account. Mrs B says she couldnt do this as shed bought the 
tablets for use with existing games that had been downloaded by the previous owner and 
kept on there. So Mrs B said they hadnt connected to the internet via the tablets as it wasnt 
necessary. 
Mrs B said she was unable to provide receipts for any of the claimed items. She provided 
some photos showing children using the tablets, the bag on the pushchair and of family 
members and herself wearing jewellery which she says are from several years ago. Mrs B 
said any other photos and receipts were damaged in a house fire in 2014. 
Mrs B provided screenshots of online banking to show cash withdrawals for £900 over a 
seven day period. Mrs B said the family had planned to go on a day trip, and they needed 
cash for food, petrol and gifts. 
She says she kept her debit/cash card elsewhere and so this wasnt stolen.
RSA accepts that in some cases there wont always be evidence to support a theft claim. 
However in this case Mrs B was unable to provide any evidence of ownership, proof of 
purchase for any of the claimed items, particularly items of jewellery of value. Mrs B asked to 
withdraw the tablets from the claim when asked to provide proof of ownership, which RSA 
said was concerning. 
When making a claim, I think its reasonable for an insurer to ask for some evidence to 
support the claim for loss from a customer. This is to prevent an insurer from being exposed 
to dishonest or exaggerated claims. 
It is for a customer to prove their claim. Mrs Bs policy with RSA says the following which I 
dont find an unusual term:
How to make a claim  General Conditions
When you know you have to claim under this policy, you must:
-When asked send us all the documents and information (including written estimates 
and proof of ownership or value we may need.
General Conditions that apply to the whole policy
We or (intermediary name inserted here) may cancel this policy by giving you seven 
days notice by recorded delivery letter to your last known address as a result of, but 
not limited to, one of the following reasons:
- failure to provide us or (intermediary name inserted here) with information we or 
(intermediary name inserted here) have requested that is directly relevant to the 
cover provided under this policy or any claim;
I understand Mrs Bs strength of feeling about her complaint. But I think RSA properly 
investigated the claim in order to reach a decision as to whether to accept it. And while I can 
understand Mrs Bs reasons for not having suitable evidence, I also think its fair for RSA to 
consider that there is no recent evidence of the items being claimed for or any receipts or 
valuations for them. Mrs B insured a diamond ring for just over £5,000 as a single item under 
the policy. She was able to provide photos of her wearing the ring and although I appreciate 
Mrs B says she has owned it for a long time, she was unable to provide any evidence to 
support its value. 
RSA said it made enquiries with the electronic tablet retailer. It said they advised it wouldnt 
be possible to download new games without connecting to WIFI or linking the tablet to an 
online account. They advised that in order to access existing downloaded games, the previous owner/seller would have had to have left their security sign on information on the 
tablets. RSA believed this was unlikely. Mrs B was unable to provide any evidence of 
ownership of the tablets being claimed for.
RSA can cancel the policy provided it gives reasonable notice of its intention to do so. This is 
so that a customer has the opportunity to look for alternative cover elsewhere. As RSA gave 
Mrs B 14 days notice of cancellation, I cant say it acted unreasonably here. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B. But putting everything together, I dont think RSA acted 
unreasonably in declining her claim and cancelling her policy. So Im not asking it to do 
anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman