DRN-4182944
The complaint
Ms D complains Astrenska Insurance Limited unfairly settled her travel insurance baggage 
claim. 
What happened
Ms D took out an annual travel insurance policy underwritten by Astrenska. She travelled 
abroad in September 2022 for around two weeks.  Her flight was delayed and when she 
arrived late on Thursday night, she found that she and many other passengers bags had 
been left behind at the airport in the UK. She said the airline was aware of this and said it 
would contact her to arrange delivery of the luggage.
Ms D said the next day - Friday - after having no contact from the airline, she began to buy 
the supplies she needed. On Sunday she heard from the airline that the bags had arrived but 
could not be delivered and Ms D would have to collect her luggage from the airport. Shes 
explained she was unable to do this herself due to the distance and her assisting a friend 
with severe medical needs. She arranged a courier at a cost of around €300. 
Ms D made a claim for the items she had to buy while she was without her luggage. And for 
the courier cost.
Astrenska accepted the claim and paid £250 less the policy excess. It said this was the 
maximum cover available under the policy for delayed baggage. 
The terms for delayed baggage are set out as follows. 
Delayed baggage
What is covered 
If your baggage is temporarily lost on the outward journey and you are without it for 
more than 12 hours, we will pay for the replacement of essential items. To claim 
under this section, you must keep the receipt of anything you buy and get written 
confirmation from the carrier of the number of hours you were without your baggage.
The most we will pay 
The most we will pay for each insured person is £250
And there are separate terms for lost, stolen or damaged baggage.
Lost, stolen or damaged baggage 
What is covered 
We will cover you for loss, theft or accidental damage to your personal belongings, 
baggage or golf equipment during your trip."
The most we will pay 
The most we will pay for each insured person is £5,000, but no more than: 
£600 for any one article, pair or set of articles;
£1,000 in total for valuables; 
and £250 (up to £35 a day) towards the cost of hiring replacement golf equipment 
Ms D complained about the claim settlement. She said she thought she was covered for up 
to £5,000. And when she called the insurer when she arrived at her destination without her 
luggage, she was told the cover was up to £250. She said this limited the replacement items 
she could buy and ruined her holiday.  She had to spend more than £250 and thought all of 
her expenses should be covered, including the courier cost. 
Astrenska said it thought it had settled the claim correctly. It said Ms Ds luggage was 
delayed and not lost, as she received it later during her holiday. It also said it wouldnt cover 
the fee Ms D had to pay to have her luggage couriered and said she should contact the 
airline about that. 
Unhappy with the response, Ms D brought her complaint to this service. An investigator here 
looked into what had happened and said they didnt think the insurer had settled the claim 
unfairly. 
Astrenska made no comment on the investigators view. However Ms D disagreed. In 
summary she said she thought the policy was being unfairly interpreted in the insurers 
favour. She said her bags were lost, and she wanted all of her expenses paid. 
As Ms D asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Astrenska has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Firstly, I note Ms D has raised some points about what would happen in other scenarios of 
lost and delayed baggage. However, Ive focused on the issues which I think are at the heart 
of this complaint and the particular circumstances of what happened in Ms Ds case.
Ms D has said she doesnt think the policy terms are clear, and thought she was covered for 
up to £5,000. Having reviewed the terms, I think the cover is set out clearly with two distinct 
sections for the different types of cover related to baggage. The policy explicitly states the 
cover for lost, stolen or damaged baggage is up to £5,000 and the cover for delayed 
baggage, is up to £250. Its very common across the travel insurance industry for policies to 
offer differing levels of cover for baggage that is delayed as opposed to baggage that is lost 
or stolen. So, I dont think this is an unusual limitation on cover that needed to be highlighted 
any more prominently.   
The policy terms do not provide further definitions for delayed or lost beyond what is stated 
in the terms above. Ms D has said that her bags were lost, so she should be covered up to 
£5,000. 
Ive considered Ms Ds points carefully. However, Im not persuaded that her claim should be 
covered under the lost, stolen, or damaged baggage section of the policy. Ms Ds bags 
were left behind at her departure airport, and she has said she was told this by the airline 
when she arrived at her destination. So, I think it was apparent from the outset that her bags 
were not lost. The airline knew where they were, and there was a delay in them being 
transported. Ms D arrived on holiday late on a Thursday night, and was told her bags had arrived in the country on the following Sunday. I appreciate there was a further delay in her 
being able to collect or receive her bags for the reasons she has explained. However, I think 
all of this points to Ms Ds bags as having been delayed and not lost. So, Im satisfied 
Astrenska has fairly settled the claim under the correct section of the policy and up to the 
limit of £250.
I appreciate Ms D had to spend more than £250 to obtain the items she needed for the days 
she was without her bags. And that she had to pay a substantial courier cost to have her 
bags delivered to her. However, the maximum cover under this section of the policy is £250 
and there is no further provision of cover for the cost of couriering delayed bags. So, I dont 
think Astrenska is required to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Astrenska Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman