DRN-2579383
The complaint
Miss W complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against her without due cause.
What happened
In June 2015, Miss W received two payments into her account totalling approximately £240. 
After each payment there was a cash withdrawal, removing the funds from her account. Miss 
W said that at the time of the payments, she was 16 years old. She met an older male whom 
she really liked, and naively agreed to allow him to have funds paid into her account and 
withdrew them at his request. Following these transactions, she said she could not get in 
touch with the male  he never contacted her and ignored her attempts to contact him. It 
transpired that the payments into the account were fraudulent. She said she discovered this 
when she was contacted by the police and had to go to the police station for further 
questioning on this matter. She said there was no action taken against her as she was 
unwitting and used as a money mule. 
Shortly after the two credits were received into and withdrawn from Miss Ws account, Metro 
received notifications from the sending banks that they were fraudulent funds. Someone had 
purported to be a male selling tickets to a festival on a selling website, and blocked them 
after they had sent the money. They reviewed the account in line with the terms and 
conditions, and made the decision to close her account and register her to Cifas in July 
2015. 
Miss W was unaware of the Cifas marker for some time. She had an account with another 
bank, that remained open for a long time but then was closed. Miss W tried to open a new 
current account and apply for a credit card, but kept being rejected. She discovered she had 
a Cifas marker registered against her. She complained to Metro  they said that they had 
acted correctly. They explained that theyd received the notice from the third party banks that 
her account had been used to receive fraudulent credits, so it was incumbent upon them to 
close her account and to report the matter to related independent agencies to combat fraud. 
Miss W came to our service, and our investigator reviewed what had happened. They felt 
Miss W was being sincere when she explained that she had simply been a nave victim of 
the male here  she had feelings towards him and he had taken advantage of this. They felt 
that Miss W hadnt known that he was going to use the account for fraudulent purposes, so 
was simply the unwitting victim of the older male. They recommended that Metro remove the 
Cifas marker, and pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Metro 
didnt agree, it accepted that she was young but she willingly allowed her account to be used 
to facilitate fraud, whether she was aware of the origins of the funds or not. It said it would 
have expected her to have asked some more questions about what the payments were for. 
They also questioned whether we had seen evidence from the relevant law enforcement 
agencies to support her claims. As Metro didnt agree, it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Due to the passage of time, the Cifas marker will have now been removed  they stay on the 
fraud prevention database for 6 years. So, the main finding I need to make here relates to 
the payment recommended by our investigator for the distress and inconvenience suffered 
by Miss W  but Id need to be satisfied that Metro had acted incorrectly to make any such 
award. So, I will first consider whether I think it was fair and reasonable for the Cifas marker 
to be registered against Miss W. 
The type of Cifas marker that Metro asked to be applied is for misuse of facility  relating to 
the account being used to receive and withdraw fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, Metro are not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss W is guilty of a 
fraud or financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. Cifas guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
So the relevant finding for me to make is whether I believe Metro had sufficient evidence to 
conclude that the money sent to Miss W was as the result of a fraud, and that she was 
deliberately dishonest in relation to this, such that it would be able to escalate its concerns to 
Cifas. I do not think Metro were entitled to do so, Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that the funds were fraudulent. It is also not in dispute that Miss W allowed 
the funds to be sent to her account, or that she withdrew them for him. What remains in 
dispute is what she knew, or ought reasonably to have known, about the source of the funds 
and whether she was witting or unwitting in being used as a money mule. As outlined above, 
Miss W told our service that she had feelings toward an older male. She said when he asked 
if she could receive the funds, she didnt know about their origin of the funds or that they 
were fraudulent. And despite being taken in by the police, she was not charged with any 
offences. I do agree she should have asked more questions about why the older male 
needed to use her account  but I also think it is completely plausible that she didnt think 
someone she had feelings for would be using her account for nefarious reasons. The fraud 
wasnt particularly sophisticated or for large amounts of money  it was simply a festival 
ticket scam  so it is easy to imagine the older male wasnt known to Miss W to be some 
kind of criminal or someone involved in fraud. Miss W has been quite open about what 
happened, and I have seen nothing to suggest that she was aware that the funds could have 
been fraudulent until she was contacted by the police. I see no reason to doubt Miss Ws 
account. For these reasons I conclude that it was not fair and reasonable that she had a 
Cifas marker. 
I need now to consider the impact the marker had on Miss W. She wasnt aware of the Cifas 
marker for about four years  she was able to continue living without knowing about the 
Cifas marker, or without it impacting her, until June 2019.  The existence of the Cifas marker 
came to light when Miss W was entering the workforce and wanted to open a bank account 
and apply for credit. At this stage, she was rejected by numerous businesses  and I think 
this is most likely due to the Cifas marker. Early adulthood and entering the workforce are 
quite pivotal times in a young persons life  its the first time when Miss W would have been 
growing up and gaining financial independence. And I know finding out about the Cifas 
marker and the reminder of the difficult situation she found herself in when she was 16 would 
have caused her stress. It also caused her the inconvenience of having to make numerous 
applications and being rejected. When considering all of this, I do think our investigators 
recommendation of £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Miss W suffered 
as a result of the Cifas marker is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and ask that Metro Bank PLC pay Miss W 
£250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by loading the Cifas marker.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman