DRN-2214273
The complaint
Mr S complains that Stagemount Limited (trading as Quid Market) acted irresponsibly when 
lending to him. 
What happened
In June and August 2019 Quid Market provided Mr S with two instalment loans. When they 
were arranged, both these loans were originally due to be repaid by five monthly 
repayments. Mr S paid loan 1 but he had problems paying loan 2. 
Heres a table setting out details of the loans:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
112/06/2019 16/07/2019 5 £300.00 £101.01
205/08/2019 Outstanding 5 £400.00 £142.03
Mr S complained that Quid Market shouldnt have provided loans that werent affordable for 
him when he was using a variety of credit cards and regularly had multiple payday loans at 
the same time for a prolonged period. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint. He thought that Quid Market saw that Mr S had 
multiple outstanding loans at the time he took loan 1. And in these circumstances, Quid 
Market ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr S wouldve been able to sustainably repay 
this loan  and any subsequent loans.
So our adjudicator said Quid Market shouldnt have lent him loan 1 or loan 2 and he gave 
detailed directions setting out what Quid Market should do to put things right for Mr S. 
Quid Market didnt agree that the loans it provided shouldnt have been lent to Mr S. 
Quid Market mainly said that at least one of the other outstanding short-term loans it could 
see was due to be repaid before Mr S took out loan 1  and it looked like there were only two 
other short term loans showing on the credit checks it did. Quid Market also said that the 
majority of Mr Ss overall indebtedness wasnt his outstanding loans but came from the 
revolving credit he had at the time of application. 
Based on all of Mr Ss credit commitments Quid Market calculated that the repayments 
would constitute 27% of Mr Ss monthly disposable income. It said this wasnt evidence that 
payments wouldnt be sustainable.
Another adjudicator reviewed what Quid Market said and she looked at the credit information 
Quid Market sent us. She agreed with the outcome reached by the first adjudicator on the 
basis that even taking into account that one of Mr Ss outstanding short term loans was due 
to be repaid before Quid Market issued loan 1, nevertheless, she could still see at least three 
other short term loans outstanding when Quid Market provided loan 1 to Mr S.
Quid Market still disagreed and asked for an ombudsman review. So the complaint came to 
me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Quid Market was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And, in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Quid Market has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr S. It asked him to 
provide details of his income and to tell Quid Market what he normally spent each month, including spending on other credit commitments. And Quid Market also carried out checks 
on Mr Ss credit file  which it has sent to us. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Quid Market to provide loan 1. I think 
Quid Market shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr Ss borrowing history that 
he was likely having money problems.  
When he asked for loan 1 Mr S already had three other outstanding short-term loans  and 
now he was asking for further borrowing. Although one of those loans was due to be repaid 
before Quid Market issued loan 1 (and that did happen) I dont think it was reasonable for 
Quid Market to disregard this loan when thinking about Mr Ss overall financial situation and 
assessing the affordability of loan 1.
I say this because Quid Market could see from the credit checks it did when Mr S applied for 
loan 1 that he had multiple credit cards and a long-established record of relying on short-
term loans. 
This information was seriously at odds with what Mr S had told Quid Market about his 
financial situation. 
So, although the loan mightve appeared affordable, Quid Market shouldve realised that 
despite what Mr S had told Quid Market about his finances this probably wasnt a true 
reflection of his underlying financial situation  particularly bearing in mind his home 
circumstances which meant that his financial responsibilities for typical household costs and 
expenses was limited. And its not likely that someone with his level of disposable income 
would have had the extent of indebtedness Mr S did, nor be likely to need to borrow again so 
soon after repaying previous loans. 
It wasnt fair to lend to Mr S given this apparently inconsistent information without at least 
first asking Mr S more probing questions to ensure Quid Market had a proper understanding 
of his financial circumstances, in particular, concerning his use of other short-term loans.  
And had it done so, I think Quid Market wouldve likely found out that just a few days after 
paying off one of his previously outstanding short-term loans on 3 June 2019, Mr S took out 
a new short-term loan with another lender (start date 7 June 2019). And he borrowed almost 
twice the amount hed just repaid a few days earlier. 
So, if Quid Market had carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 1, I think it 
wouldve likely found out that Mr S had three other outstanding short-term loans when it 
provided loan 1. Especially bearing also in mind all the other information it could see on the 
credit check it carried out before providing loan 1, I think Quid Market shouldve realised that 
the indications were that loan 1, and any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr S. 
For these reasons, I think Quid Market shouldnt have provided these loans to him.  
So Im planning on upholding the complaint.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr S told us he has no further information to provide.
Quid Market hasnt said anything further in response to my provisional decision and the 
deadline for comments has now passed. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
If Quid Market has sold the outstanding debt it should buy back the outstanding debt on 
loan 2 before doing what I have outlined below. If Quid Market isnt able to buy the debt back 
then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything already 
refunded.
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then 
Quid Market should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint 
is settled. Quid Market should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move 
to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Quid Market should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S.
E) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to loans 1 and 2 
 and if necessary, ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest. Quid Market 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Quid 
Market intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mr S owes it must do this after tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Stagemount Limited (trading as Quid Market) to take the 
steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2020.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman