DRN-2169784
The complaint
Mr D says Provident Personal Credit Limited - trading as Satsuma - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr D between July 2018 
and January 2019. A summary of Mr Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 20/07/2018 15/09/2018 52 £500.00 £95.65
2 05/09/2018 15/09/2018 52 £700.00 £229.60
3 17/09/2018 12/11/2018 12 £1,000.00 £166.00
4 28/11/2018 21/12/2019 52 £700.00 £133.95
5 06/01/2019 Outstanding 52 £700.00 £267.90
Mr Ds complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information Satsuma had asked Mr D to 
provide that should have prompted Satsuma to do more checks. So, the adjudicator couldnt 
say Satsuma was wrong to have given the loans to Mr D.  
Mr D disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. So, the complaint was passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr D about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of around £2,166. Satsuma also checked Mr Ds 
normal monthly living costs. Mr D declared these to be between £1,030 and £1,556 a month. 
Satsuma says it also searched Mr Ds credit file and it has provided the results of its search. 
There werent any recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) 
recorded on it at the time the loans were taken out. So, there wasnt anything in the 
information Mr D provided that ought to have prompted Satsuma to increase its checks 
before it lent to Mr D. 
Mr D borrowed all the loans within a six-month period. So, he was very early on in his 
lending relationship with Satsuma. Even though he had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information he declared to 
Satsuma. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr D provided at the time which 
would have given Satsuma cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Satsuma to 
have relied on what Mr D gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Satsuma to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Satsuma did before lending loans 1 to 
4 went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-
depth checks. 
By loan 5 was Mr Ds fifth loan in less than six months, so I think Satsuma should have been 
looking to build a clearer picture than it did about Mr Ds finances before lending this loan. 
Such as checking his bank statements or verifying his payslips and/or bills. But in saying 
this, Mr D hasnt provided this service with any information about his financial position at the 
time, such as bank statements or a credit file. So, without further information I can only 
conclude that whilst the checks Satsuma carried out didnt go far enough, I cant say an error 
has been made. I say this because, I dont know whether it would have thought this loan was 
affordable to Mr D. Therefore, I cant say Satsuma was wrong to have provided this loan.  
The information Mr D declared to Satsuma at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Satsuma was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Satsuma knew about    
Mr D, I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to verify the information Mr D gave it. This therefore 
means, I cant say that Satsuma has done something wrong in lending Mr D these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr D, but I hope my explanation will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman