DRN-3254593
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Secure 
Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway needed repairs, and about how he was treated when 
the agreement was terminated.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr D was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Moneyway. The agreement was for £16,890, with 55 monthly payments of £454.32, and a 
final payment of £464.32. 
Mr D contacted Moneyway on 4 September 2019 and asked for a settlement quotation. And, 
on 13 September 2019, Moneyway were formally notified that thered been a change of 
owner registered on the car. So, they wrote to Mr D and asked him to contact them.
Moneyway made a number of unsuccessful attempts to contact Mr D during October 2019. 
But, on 31 October 2019, Mr D contacted them and told them hed sold the car because he 
couldnt afford to repair it. Moneyway explained that hed breached the terms of the 
agreement by selling the car without settling the finance. And that he was liable for the full 
outstanding balance. But Mr D said he couldnt afford to pay this. Moneyway followed up this 
call by sending Mr D an Enforcement and Termination Notice.
Mr D made a partial payment towards the outstanding balance on 9 November 2019.
On 26 November 2019, Moneyway transferred Mr Ds account to a debt collection agency 
and instructed an agent to recover the car from the new owner. But Mr D argued they 
couldnt repossess the car without a court order, as hed paid more than one-third of the 
amount required under the agreement. And he complained to Moneyway.
Moneyway didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They explained that, because Mr D had 
breached the agreement and forfeited his rights over the car, they didnt need a court order 
to repossess the car. Mr D was unhappy with this response, and he brought his complaint to 
us for investigation. And, in March 2020, Mr D borrowed money from a family member to 
repay the outstanding balance to Moneyway.
To resolve his complaint, Mr D said hed like Moneyway to address all of the points hed 
raised; pay him compensation for the distress hed suffered; and for all of the negative 
markers to be removed from his credit file. Mr D has also said that he wants Moneyway to 
change their processes, so they dont send automatic letters to people in vulnerable 
positions, as doing so is abhorrent.
Our investigator said we can only consider specific disputes between a consumer and a 
financial business, and were not able to tell a financial business what processes they must 
have in place  this is something for the industry regulator. He also specifically detailed 
Moneyways responses to all the points Mr D had raised.
The investigator said that, if Mr D had been experiencing problems with the car after it was 
supplied to him, then he shouldve raised these issues with Moneyway at the time. Had he 
done so, an investigation couldve taken place, to determine if the car was of a satisfactory 
quality. But, because Mr D didnt raise these issues at the time, and because hes now 
disposed of the car, this isnt something we can reasonably practically investigate.
The investigator also said Mr D breached the terms of the agreement by selling the car to a 
third party, and not clearing the outstanding finance. So, he didnt think Moneyway had done 
anything wrong by pursuing Mr D for the outstanding balance. He thought Moneyway had 
acted reasonably by attempting to repossess the car. And, because Mr D had repaid the 
agreement before any repossession had taken place, the investigator said he didnt need to 
comment on whether Moneyway wouldve needed a court order to enforce a repossession.
So, the investigator said that Moneyway didnt need to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree. He said the investigator has grossly misunderstood the nature of my 
complaint. He said Moneyway terminated the agreement after hed sold the car, and they 
asked him to repay the outstanding amount in full. He also said that they offered him a 
repayment plan after hed paid them the partial payment. And, when the repossession agent 
contacted him, he said that Moneyway told him the offer of a repayment plan had been an 
automatic letter that was sent out, and he was told he needed to repay the balance in full.
Mr D also said that he never missed a payment to Moneyway, and his account was never in 
arrears. He made all the monthly payments, even after the agreement was terminated. So, 
he doesnt think that Moneyway should record any negative markers on his credit file.
Because Mr D didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
Before I address the facts of the case, I think it would be useful to explain the scope of my 
decision. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the courts, and were not 
able to make a judgement on whether a financial business has acted illegally  this is 
something only a court could decide. Its also not our role to tell a financial business what 
policies and procedures they must have in place; this is something that a financial business 
would decide with the Financial Conduct Authority.
So, I wont be commenting specifically about, or making any judgements on, whether in the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint Moneyway needed a court order to repossess the car.Ive seen a copy of the agreement between Mr D and Moneyway. Under term 4: selling or 
disposing of the vehicle, the agreement says:
you may not sell or dispose of the vehicle or transfer your rights or obligations under 
this agreement. 
And, under term 15: our rights to end the agreement and your liability upon termination, the 
agreement says:
(a) we will assume that you refuse to comply with this agreement, and we will be 
entitled to end it after giving you the notice required by law, if:
(i) you break any terms of this agreement 
(b) if we end this agreement, we may take back the vehicle from you and you must 
pay us:
i) all amounts you owe us under this agreement
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr D intended to continue making the repayments to 
Moneyway, for the remaining term of the agreement, after selling the car. And, if possible, 
save up enough money to clear the outstanding balance early. Hes said that he was 
unaware that, by selling the car and not clearing the finance, he was breaching the terms of 
the agreement.
While Im aware that Mr D didnt think he was doing anything wrong, the agreement is clear. 
By selling (disposing of) the car he was in breach of term 4. So, under 15(a)(i), Moneyway 
were entitled to terminate the agreement. Whats more, under 15(b)i), once the agreement 
had been terminated, Moneyway had the right to repossess the car and the full outstanding 
balance became immediately payable.
After selling the car in September 2019, Mr D called Moneyway on 31 October 2019 to 
discuss the situation. Following this call, Moneyway sent him an Enforcement and 
Termination Notice. This explained that, because Mr D had disposed of the car, Moneyway 
were terminating the agreement and demand payment of the outstanding balance on 10 
November 2019.
This notice also clearly said that failure to repay the outstanding balance would result in 
repossession of the car, and Moneyway taking court action to recover their debt. It also 
clearly said that, if Mr D couldnt repay the outstanding balance in full, he would need to 
apply to the courts for an order allowing him more time to pay.
The covering letter to the Enforcement and Termination Notice explained that Mr D had until 
10 November 2019 to remedy any breaches to the agreement i.e. repay the debt in full; 
otherwise Moneyway would report this to the credit reference agencies. 
On 9 November 2019, Mr D paid Moneyway a partial payment of £8,000. Moneyway wrote 
to Mr D the same day, acknowledging the partial payment hed made. This letter said that his 
new outstanding balance was £7,207.80, and that this would reduce the payments on his 
agreement to £184.56 (with a final payment of £194.52) over the remaining 39 months.Moneyway have confirmed this was an automated letter and was generated because Mr D 
had paid a lump sum payment before the agreement was terminated on 10 November 2019. 
However, Mr D believes this was a legally binding amendment to his agreement  he said 
that offer and acceptance is the basic foundation of contractual law in the UK, Moneyway 
sending me a letter with a new payment plan after the agreement had been terminated and 
after that phone call is by definition an offer and by making those monthly payments I had 
clearly accepted that offer.
But Mr D had already been told, in his call with Moneyway on 31 October 2019, that the 
outstanding balance needed to be paid in full, and a repayment plan wasnt available. And 
hed also received the Enforcement and Termination Notice, that explained the outstanding 
balance needed to be paid in full, and if he needed more time to pay them, hed have to 
apply to the courts for an order. Which implied that a repayment plan wasnt available.
Because of this, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr D to assume that Moneyway had 
changed their mind and offered him a repayment plan. And I wouldve expected him to have 
contacted Moneyway to query this. So, Im satisfied that the 9 November 2019 partial 
payment letter wasnt a legally binding reinstatement of the agreement. Especially as the 
agreement hadnt been terminated at that point. And Moneyway were entitled to pursue Mr D 
for the full outstanding balance in accordance with the Enforcement and Termination Notice 
theyd already sent him.
As Ive already said, in selling the car, Mr D breached the agreement. And this resulted in 
the full outstanding balance becoming immediately due upon termination of the agreement. I 
appreciate that Mr D had made all payments up to the point of termination. And he made 
payments to Moneyway between selling the car and the agreement being terminated. 
However, he wasnt able to repay the outstanding balance in full following termination. And, 
as this was the amount that was due to be paid, I dont think that Moneyway did anything 
wrong by reporting non-payment of this amount to the credit reference agencies.
So, given the above, I think that Moneyway acted reasonably by terminating the agreement 
after Mr D breached the terms by selling the car. And they also acted reasonably by 
pursuing him for the full outstanding balance that became due as a result. And by advising 
Mr D that they had the right to repossess the car as a result of the breach. So, I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Secure Trust Bank Plc 
trading as Moneyway.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman