DRN-3649769
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) cancelled her 
motor insurance policy when she came to make a claim, saying that she hadnt given correct 
information when she took out the policy. References to Watford include other organisations 
and individuals acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs M had motor insurance underwritten by Watford. She was involved in an accident and 
made a claim on her insurance. Watford decided not to pay her claim and cancelled her 
policy because she had said she was the registered keeper of the vehicle when she wasnt. 
In fact a member of Mrs Ms family was the registered keeper. The family member had 
bought the car as a gift for Mrs M but because the car was bought on finance they were 
unable to put it in her name until the finance was paid off. 
Watford said that this was a misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Watford said it considered that Mrs M had made 
the misrepresentation recklessly, not caring if it was true or not. Watford said that under 
CIDRA if it wouldnt have entered into the contract with Mrs M it would be entitled to avoid 
the contract, refuse to pay any claims and retain the premiums. So Watford refused to pay 
the claim.
Mrs M wasnt happy about this and complained to Watford. Watford said if Mrs M had 
answered the questions correctly it wouldnt have offered her a policy because she didnt 
have an insurable interest in the car. Watford said it would only offer insurance to the 
registered keeper of the car or their spouse, and that the only acceptable owner would be 
the policyholder, their spouse or a lease company. So Watford said it was entitled to decline 
the claim and cancel the policy.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. He said that because the questions asked Are you (or will you be) 
the owner and registered keeper of the car, Mrs M had answered correctly and there had 
been no misrepresentation. The investigator said Watford should reimburse the sum Mrs M 
paid to repair her car (plus interest), remove any cancellation/voidance marker from the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), give Mrs M a letter explaining the voidance was 
a mistake which she can show to other insurers, and pay her £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
(CUE is a database of motor, home, personal injury and travel insurance claims/incidents. 
Not all insurers are signed up to CUE, but the majority are. If an insurer is signed up to CUE, 
it will make a record of any incident its made aware of and whether it leads to a claim or not. 
Insurers can view the information on CUE when considering offering a policy to a consumer.)
Mrs M was happy with the investigators suggestions but Watford didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
CIDRA potentially applies if a consumer answers a question incorrectly when taking out an 
insurance policy. This may be what is called a misrepresentation. CIDRA says a consumer 
should take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a policy. 
There are a number of actions an insurer can take if it establishes the consumer has 
misrepresented something, including cancelling the policy.
However the first step is to establish if there has actually been a misrepresentation. If theres 
been no misrepresentation, theres no need for me to consider CIDRA further. 
Mrs M took out the insurance policy online. The relevant questions she was asked were:
Are you (or will you be) the legal owner of this car ?
Are you (or will you be) the registered keeper of this car ?
There is a drop-down menu for each question where you can only answer Yes or No. Mrs 
M answered Yes to both questions. She says she did so because she would become the 
legal owner and registered keeper of the car once the finance was paid off and the family 
member transferred the car to her. This was due to happen within the 12-month term of the 
policy. So Mrs Ms answers to these questions were correct.
Watford says because the previous question was When did you purchase the car ? and the 
only possible answers were a month and a year or Not bought car yet it was clear that the 
wording or will you be in the next questions relate to the answer Not bought car yet.  
Watford says that this is because people will carry out insurance searches on potential 
purchases. However it didnt say here that you cant take out insurance for a car you dont 
own. And Mrs M couldnt have said in answer to the question that someone else had bought 
the car as this option wasnt available. She thought she was doing the right thing by inputting 
the date the car was purchased for her. 
So I dont think Mrs M made a misrepresentation when taking out the policy. Therefore it 
follows that Watford shouldnt have cancelled the policy, and it should settle her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I require Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to reimburse Mrs M the amount she paid to repair the car plus 
interest at 8% simple from the date she paid for the repairs to the date of settlement. 
If Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to remove any 
cancellation/voidance markers from CUE and any other database, give Mrs M a letter which 
she can show to other insurers explaining the voidance was a mistake, and pay her £300 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.For the avoidance of any doubt, as the policy shouldnt have been cancelled, Mrs M 
shouldnt have to pay anything to Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited, for example, 
for premiums for the remainder of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman