DRN-2403478
The complaint
Ms L complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M & S) mis-sold her credit 
card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms L took out the PPI policy when she applied for a credit card in June 2004. M & S and Ms 
L agree that the application was made in-store. However, Ms L said she was advised to take 
out the PPI, while M & S said this was a non-advised sale. Ms L said that she wasnt given a 
choice about the PPI.
The policy cost 75p for each £100 Ms L owed on her credit card. If shed successfully 
claimed on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, the policy couldve paid out 
15% of the outstanding balance for the first month, and then 15% of the reducing balance 
each month until it was cleared.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld, as he thought Ms L wouldnt have 
bought the policy if shed been fully informed about the cost and benefits at the point of sale.   
M & S disagreed, and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ls case. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms L said she applied for the credit card at a stand in an M & S store. M & S sent us a copy 
of Ms Ls credit card application, and I can see that theres a section headed payment 
protection in which Ms L has ticked a box and signed  separately from her signature for the 
credit - to say that she wanted the PPI. I accept that I cant know what discussion there may 
have been between Ms L and an M & S representative about the PPI, but theres nothing on 
the form to suggest that the PPI was compulsory. And I think Ms L could have left the PPI 
section of the form blank if she didnt want the insurance. 
On balance, I dont think I can fairly say its most likely that the PPI was presented as 
compulsory, which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I 
simply dont have enough evidence that this is what happened. 
Ms L said that she was advised to take the PPI, and highlighted the text at the end of the PPI 
section of the application form that said we strongly recommend you take cover by ticking 
this box and signing below. This was pre-printed on the form, and seems to be a general 
statement to anyone who may be applying for credit, so doesnt in itself, indicate that Ms L 
was given a personal recommendation about the PPI based on her circumstances. Indeed, 
Ms Ls recollection is that she wasnt asked about her circumstances. So on balance I dont 
think Ms L was advised to take the PPI (although I accept that she may have been 
influenced by the wording). On that basis, M & S didnt need to make sure that the PPI was 
suitable for her. But it shouldve given her enough information for her to decide whether the 
policy was right for her. I dont think it did.
The credit card application shows the cost of the policy as 75p per £100 of the outstanding 
balance, and it refers to sections of the credit card terms and conditions for more 
information. I have a copy of these, although they are not entirely legible, but I can see that 
they contain details of the main exclusions and limitations (although I dont think Ms L 
wouldve been affected by any of these). However, I dont know what opportunity Ms L 
wouldve had, in the store, to look at the terms and conditions in any detail. And I dont think 
all of the cost and benefit information wouldve been clear  for example that Ms L wouldve 
had to carry on paying premiums during a claim, or that premiums would be added to the 
balance outstanding and interest could be charged on them. 
Ms L told us that she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her employer of six months full 
pay followed by six months half pay, and she had six to twelve months savings she couldve 
relied on (although the amount she mentioned was equivalent to between four and five 
months pay). 
Following our adjudicators assessment, M & S sent in a transcript of a conversation with Ms 
L in which she thought that her sick pay entitlement wouldve been full pay for six months, 
but then she wasnt certain how long she wouldve been paid half pay after that. Ms L also 
said she wouldve been entitled to redundancy pay but didnt know how much, and she said 
she had no savings at the time. 
We asked Ms L about this, and she said that she had simply made a mistake about the 
savings when talking to M & S, and that her sick pay was as she had described to us. We 
also asked whether shed be able to provide evidence of her savings, but she didnt think this 
would be possible, although she did confirm where they were held. Given that she took out 
the PPI over sixteen years ago, I accept that evidence from the time of the sale might not be 
readily available.
I have thought carefully about what both parties have said. Looking at Ms Ls credit card 
application, I can see that she had been working for her employer for seven years, and given 
the nature of her employment I consider it most likely that she wouldve had good sick pay 
arrangements - six months full pay followed by six months half pay does not seem 
unreasonably high. Ms L has been consistent in her submissions to us about her savings. 
And based on her overall circumstances as shown on the application form, I consider it 
plausible that she wouldve had had some savings that she couldve relied on as she 
described to us. So I think she couldve kept up with the credit card repayments if shed been 
unable to work. 
This is a finely balanced decision, but having carefully considered all of the evidence and 
arguments in this case, Im not satisfied that Ms L would have taken out PPI with the credit 
card if shed fully understood the cost and benefits  I dont think shed have seen a strong 
need for the cover This means Ms L is worse off as a result of what M & S did wrong, so it 
needs to put things right.
Putting things right
M & S should put Ms L in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.A. M & S should find out how much Ms L would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
M & S should then refund the difference between what Ms L owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, M & S can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. M & S should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms L would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when M & S works out what Ms L would have owed each month without PPI  Ms L 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, M & S should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Ms L paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms L 
wouldve owed M & S something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. M & S should tell Ms L what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires M & S to take off tax from this interest. M & S must give Ms L a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ls complaint. Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc should pay her the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman