DRN-3670003
The complaint
Ms G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim under her legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2021, Ms G was looking to have some gardening work carried out at her 
property. She advertised the job on a third-party website and was contacted by a 
landscaping company who provided a quote for the works.
Although Ms G hadnt accepted the quote, the company arrived at her property and started 
working. They asked for payment of a deposit up front. Ms G says she felt intimidated and 
pressured, so she paid this in cash. 
The next day, the company returned and continued working. They told her theyd discovered 
some immediate work that needed actioning which would increase the quote previously 
provided. Ms G felt intimidated and frightened into agreeing to the further works, and paid an 
interim payment for materials in cash. 
On the third day, the company said theyd discovered more work that needed attention. They 
increased the quote again and asked for more money up front. Ms G had concerns that the 
company had caused damage to her property and were trying to charge her for fixing it. She 
asked them to leave her property, at which point they became abusive. 
Ms G contacted the police and action fraud but was told it was a civil matter. So she made a 
claim on her legal expenses insurance policy to pursue legal action against the company. 
This was considered by Avivas claims handlers, who instructed a panel firm of solicitors. 
Initially, Ms G couldnt provide the companys address as she didnt know it. But the panel 
solicitors said they couldnt consider the claim without the defendants details. Ms G was 
able to find an address, but she was unhappy that shed had to investigate her own claim.
Ms G asked the claims handlers to obtain a copy of the police report from Aviva or the police 
officer. But she was told shed have to provide this information herself. Again, she was 
unhappy that she was having to obtain details herself.
Overall, Ms G was dissatisfied with the way her claim was being handled. She wasnt getting 
immediate responses to her emails and calls. And she didnt think the claims handlers had 
adequate provisions in place for vulnerable customers. So she made a complaint, which 
wasnt upheld. 
The panel solicitors completed their assessment of the claim. They said there wasnt 
reasonable prospects of success or reasonable prospects of recovery, and they didnt think 
the claim was proportionate to pursue. As these are all requirements for cover under the 
policy, Avivas claims handlers declined the claim. Ms G wasnt happy with this decision, so 
she raised another complaint  but this wasnt upheld either. 
Ms G brought her complaints to our service, but our investigator was satisfied Aviva had 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions and that its decision to decline the claim 
was fair in the circumstances. She also didnt think there had been a failing in the customer 
service provided. 
As Ms G didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me to decide. Shes told me that 
Aviva shouldve paid her the value of her claim if it wasnt cost effective to pursue. She 
believes that Aviva has let the company get away with scamming her and had it gone to 
court, they couldve been sentenced for their crimes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claims decision
Its a requirement of Ms Gs legal expenses insurance policy that any intended claim has 
reasonable prospects of success  which is defined in the policy as being more likely than 
not that [you] willrecover damages. In laymans terms, this means that the chances of 
winning and receiving the money awarded must be more than 50% (i.e. 51% or above).
In addition, the policy requires the claim to be proportionate to pursue  which means the 
legal costs required should not outweigh the amount of money in dispute. So, for example, if 
the amount in dispute was £100 but the legal costs to recover the money were £1000, the 
claim wouldnt be proportionate to take forward.
These policy terms arent unusual in legal expenses policies, and we dont think theyre 
unfair. Court action can be very expensive, so a privately paying customer wouldnt want to 
bear the cost of legal proceedings if they were told they were unlikely to succeed or recover 
any damages. Nor would they want to bear the cost if the amount they were likely to recover 
was less than the legal costs theyd likely spend. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses 
insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined funding based on these policy requirements, it isnt for me to 
evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, Ill look at whether the insurer has acted 
fairly. So long as it has obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, I wont generally 
question its reliance on that advice, unless I think it was obviously wrong or based on factual 
mistakes. 
In this case, Aviva  through its claims handlers  has obtained advice from its panel 
solicitors, who were of the opinion that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success or recovery, nor was it proportionate to pursue. Im satisfied this advice was 
properly written and well-reasoned, and its been obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer. 
So I havent seen anything to persuade me that Aviva couldnt rely on it. 
Rather, its up to Ms G to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of her claim, at her 
own cost, if she wants to challenge this further. If such an opinion is supportive then Aviva 
should reconsider the claim. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the claim has been declined correctly and fairly in line 
with the policy terms and conditions.
Claims handlingIm aware that Ms G is also unhappy with the way Avivas claims handlers have dealt with 
her claim. Shes told us that it has a duty of care towards her as a vulnerable customer. 
Looking at the file, I can see that the claims handlers dealt with the claim and all subsequent 
correspondence within its service agreement of five working days, and often a lot sooner 
than that. It also complied with Ms Gs requests for a phone call when she wanted to talk 
things through. 
I appreciate Ms G feels very strongly about her claim and wanted it to be dealt with urgently; 
she wouldve understandably been very distressed after what had happened and was 
financially impacted as a result. But Aviva has a claims process that does need to be 
followed in order to get cover in place. And Im satisfied it handled the claim promptly and in 
line with that process. 
Its important to understand that the legal expenses policy isnt there to investigate whether a 
valid claim exists. Rather, its to pursue a valid claim. Its Ms Gs responsibility, as the 
claimant, to show she has a valid claim by providing all available evidence she has to 
support it. So it wasnt unreasonable for the claims handlers to ask her to provide the police 
report and the defendants details. 
Furthermore, the purpose of the legal expenses policy is to pay the legal fees of taking legal 
action. I appreciate Ms G feels it shouldve paid her the value of her claim, but this isnt what 
the policy does. I must also point out that the policy is to pursue civil matters, rather than 
criminal cases. So had Aviva funded this case to court, it wouldve been in a civil court to 
recover damages against the company, not a criminal court where the individuals involved 
could be sentenced to prison time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman