DRN-1156717
Complaint
This complaint is a bout a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store 
card in 2001. Ms G says the policy was mis-sold to her.
The PPI and the store card were sold by a retailer. But its been agreed that the insurer, AXA 
France IARD, will take responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has sent us a copy of the application form for the store card. This included a section on 
PPI, with a space for Ms G to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Ms G has signed in the 
space. So it appears the PPI was taken out at the same time as the store card.
Where I decide that a complaint about PPI should be upheld, Id then expect the business to 
put the consumer in the financial position theyd be in if they hadnt bought the policy. This 
would usually involve refunding any premiums the consumer had paid for the policy, plus 
interest.
But in this case, AXA has sent us evidence which shows that no premiums were charged for 
this PPI policy.
Ms G has said that she only found out the PPI had been added to her account when she 
saw charges for it on her statements. So she thinks she was charged for the PPI. But she 
hasnt been able to send us copies of her statements, or any other evidence, to show that 
she was charged for the PPI.
Due to the amount of time that has passed since the sale of the policy, I dont think this is 
unreasonable. But, similarly, I dont think its unreasonable that AXA no longer has 
statements or other evidence about the account either.
Where the evidence available is incomplete or inconclusive, I must make a decision on what 
I think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
While I recognise Ms G feels strongly about this, I havent seen any clear evidence to show 
that she was charged for the PPI. And the evidence that AXA has been able to provide 
shows that she wasnt charged for it. So, based on the evidence I have, I think its likely that 
Ms G wasnt ever charged for PPI on this store card.
This means that, even if the policy was mis-sold, Ms G hasnt lost out financially as a result.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Should Ms G provide any information to AXA at a later date that shows she was charged for 
PPI on this store card, AXA should consider this.My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman