DRN-2833870
The complaint
Mr C complains that Rathbone Investment Management Limited took too long to transfer the
cash held in his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to another investment firm,
preventing him from investing it during a rising market. He wants compensation for his
financial loss, and an apology. 
What happened
Mr C held a SIPP administered by Provider C. Rathbone provided investment dealing
services for the SIPP and as part of that held its assets. On 22 November 2019 Rathbone
received a request from Provider C instructing Rathbone to transfer in-specie all assets and
transfer all cash to Mr Cs new account with Provider R. The enclosed paperwork included a
Provider R SIPP Dealing Account Form signed by Mr C on 25 October 2019 and Provider C
on 6 November 2019. The SIPP Dealing Form requested Rathbone to arrange the transfer
of Mr Cs investments in the form of stock and cash to Provider R.
Mr C chased the transfer with Rathbone on a number of occasions in December. On 23
December all except one of the non-cash assets were transferred to Provider R. That same
day and the next there was an exchange of emails between Rathbone and Provider R as to
whether the cash was to be transferred to Provider C or to Provider R. Late on the morning
of 24 December Provider R confirmed to Rathbone that the cash would need to go to
Provider C who would then send it to Provider R. Mr C also chased Rathbone about the
transfer of the cash on 24 December.
Rathbone have indicated to our service that payment processing times on 24 December had
an early cut off as it was Christmas Eve. So the payment of the cash by Rathbone to
Provider C was processed on Friday 27 December, the next working day after Christmas
and Boxing Days. Provider R have indicated that the cash element of the SIPP was received
by it on 6 January 2020.
On 8 January 2020 Mr C complained to Rathbone. He was unhappy that it had taken from
19 November 2019 to 6 January 2020 to transfer his assets to Provider R. He wanted to
know why the cash element hadnt been transferred immediately. He explained he had half a
million pounds in his SIPP he wished to invest after the general election but hed been
unable to do so due to the delay.
Rathbone didnt uphold the complaint. It said its closure procedures stipulated it must await
settlement (transfer) of all stocks (not including unit trusts) before remitting any cash. The
stocks settled on 23 December. It said that contradictory information was received from
Providers R and C as to where the cash was to be sent. Once confirmation was received on
Christmas Eve, the cash was sent the next working day on 27 December. Rathbone said its
records showed transfer of the SIPP account took just over 4 weeks. It didnt think this
timescale was excessive given it also included the Christmas holiday period.
Mr C didnt agree  he said if hed been aware of Rathbones procedure that cash was
transferred last he wouldve asked Provider C to have the cash transferred from Rathbone to
his SIPP bank account. He said this was something he could do at any time. So he brought
his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it. Mr C asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman.
After looking carefully at the file, I formed a different view on the complaint to our 
investigators. So on 17 May 2021 I issued a provisional decision, giving both parties a 
chance to comment before I made my final decision. My provisional findings were:
The essence of Mr Cs complaint is that Rathbone could easily have transferred the sizeable
(more than £500,000) cash component of his SIPP at the start of the transfer process. He
says if hed been told of Rathbones policy to transfer cash only after the non-cash elements
had been settled, he couldve transferred the cash himself to his SIPP Provider.
Im not persuaded that Rathbone could fairly be expected to transfer the cash at the start of
the transfer process. I think its policy of transferring cash after the in-specie transfer of non-
cash assets is is reasonable and in line with industry practice. And Im also not persuaded 
that I should find that Rathbone shouldve explained this policy to Mr C. Mr C asked for his 
stock and assets to be transferred, and the transfer paperwork didnt set out any particular 
urgency or need for the cash. And even if it had, Im not convinced Rathbone wouldve been 
obliged to alter its policy. The policy permitted Rathbone to deduct its charges and expenses 
at the end of the transfer process, when they could be known, which seems reasonable to 
me.
However I dont think this is the end of the complaint. I appreciate Mr C says he isnt
concerned about the time taken to transfer in specie non-cash assets, since those assets
still benefitted from being in the market. But since Ive found its reasonable of Rathbone to
transfer cash after the in-specie transfers took place, I do need to consider the whole
transfer process, to identify if there were any avoidable delays that therefore also held up the
transfer of the cash.
Im satisfied that all the paperwork required for the transfer was received by Rathbone on 22
November 2019. Ive looked very carefully at the information that Rathbone have provided
about what occurred after 22 November. Rathbone have said that its own internal service
level agreement requires a transfer request to be picked up within 7 days and that Mr Cs
wasnt picked up until 16 December 2019. That meant there was a delay of two weeks in
commencing the transfer process.
Rathbones view was that once the transfer was picked up, it was dealt with very quickly and
that the overall time for the transfer wasnt excessive.
Im not persuaded that the delay in commencing the transfer is so readily dismissed. The
fact is that the transfer was commenced on a timeframe outside the Rathbone SLA by some
two weeks, and after at least two follow ups by Mr C, which finally appears to have prompted
Rathbone to allocate it. I cant see any reason why if it had commenced two weeks earlier
Rathbone wouldnt have been able to progress the transfer in an equally expeditious fashion
as it did from 16 December onwards, when it was finally picked up and allocated. So in my
view the transfer shouldve been allocated by Friday 29 November (a week after receipt) or
at the latest Monday 2 December 2019 (a week not including day of receipt).
Once the transfer request was allocated, Rathbone submitted the payment processing
request to transfer the cash component of the SIPP on 24 December with it being processedon 27 December due to the Christmas bank holidays. This was 11 days after Mr Cs transfer
request was picked up and allocated on 16 December. However I think that if Mr Cs transfer
request had been allocated in line with the SLA, the cash component shouldve been
submitted for processing nine days after that, not eleven. This is because the delay caused
by the Christmas Bank holidays wouldve been avoided. So I think it wouldve been
reasonable for Rathbone to have submitted the cash component of the SIPP for transfer to
Provider C by Wednesday 10 December, nine days after when it shouldve been allocated
according to the Rathbone SLA. This includes the time necessary for Rathbone to clarify the
destination of the cash component of the SIPP since Im satisfied that Provider C and
Provider R had both indicated it should be sent to them.
I note that once the cash had been received by Provider C it would be necessary for
Provider C to send it to Provider R, so it could be invested by Mr C. The time that would take
is out of Rathbones hands.
So, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Rathbone
caused an avoidable delay in the transfer of Mr Cs SIPP assets, including the cash
component. So I propose to uphold the complaint, subject to any comments from the parties
that I receive.
Mr C has asked for an apology and compensation for financial loss. Im going to tell
Rathbone to offer Mr C an apology for the delay, as I think an apology is generally
appropriate where a complaint is upheld, if a complainant requests one. And Im going to tell
Rathbone to pay Mr C £200 for the distress he experienced in relation to the delay, and the
inconvenience caused to him by having to chase progress repeatedly.
But I dont propose to tell Rathbone to pay Mr C compensation for any financial loss he says
hes experienced. I understand Mr C says he missed out on investing in a rising market after
the 12 December 2019 general election. I cant be sure that is what Mr C wouldve done, but
even if I was persuaded this was the case, I dont think it would be fair to tell Rathbone to
pay Mr C compensation for any financial loss arising from missing any rise in the market.
This is because I think it was possible for Mr C to completely mitigate any loss by taking
action himself to have the cash transferred. Mr C says he couldve asked for the transfer of
the cash from Rathbone to Provider C on demand. If Mr C wished to have the funds
available to him in the event of a rising market after the 12 December 2019 general election,
it was open to him to request such a transfer.
Mr C signed the Provider R SIPP Dealing Form on 25 October and Provider C signed as his
SIPP provider on 6 November. Whether by coincidence or not, 25 October 2019 was also
the date that the Prime Minister indicated he would seek the approval of Parliament in the
following week to call a general election. And on Tuesday 29 October Parliamentary
approval was given for a general election on 12 December 2019.
Provider R indicated that Mr Cs account with it was open by 19 November. So any time after
19 November onwards Mr C couldve asked for the cash to be sent from Rathbone to
Provider C and then onto Provider R. I see no reason why this wouldnt have taken place
well before the general election date since Mr C said it could be transferred from Rathbone
to Provider C on his demand. So Im afraid Im not prepared to tell Rathbone that it should
pay compensation for any financial loss, since it was open to Mr C to take steps to ensure
the cash was available for investment after the result of the general election was known. I
appreciate this will disappoint Mr C.
My provisional decision was that Rathbone must:
(a) apologise in writing to Mr C for the delay in actioning his transfer request
(b) pay Mr C £200 for his distress and inconvenience.Both parties responded to my provisional decision. I will set out their comments in the next 
section of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr C said:
He was happy that Rathbones were being asked to give him an apology and 
he was happy with the conclusion that Rathbones were inept in the transfer of 
assets.
 
He never signed up for Rathbone to be involved with his SIPP  it had taken 
over the business Mr C had previously engaged.
He didnt willingly agree to Rathbones policy of transferring cash only after all 
other assets were transferred.
It was nonsense that Rathbone would retain control of over £0.5m to pay 
some minor expenses which could have easily been estimated and some 
funds set aside. 
He still thought Rathbone exploited its position holding his funds to his 
considerable disadvantage using its forced agreement and self-invented 
terms and conditions. 
He didnt agree with the conclusion that Rathbone could not fairly be 
expected to transfer the cash or some part of the cash at the start of the 
transfer process, and if that is industry process it is high time it is changed  it 
is unacceptable and verging on criminal. 
I understand Mr C hadnt himself chosen Rathbones services. He has taken his business 
elsewhere as he is entitled to do. I dont think it makes a difference that Mr C didnt agree to 
the cash transfer policy. I wouldnt see any reason why he would need to. Mr C may have 
assumed that cash would be transferred at the start of the process, but as Ive said, if time 
was of the essence to him it was open to him to ask for the cash to be transferred to 
Provider C on demand. He didnt do that, even when it was obvious that it wasnt being 
transferred immediately. So I cant say hes suffered a loss he couldnt have avoided himself. 
Mr C is very critical of Rathbones processes concerning cash transfers and can see 
alternate ways it couldve been done, such as holding on to a reasonable amount for 
expenses. And he says that if it is industry practice, it should be changed. I appreciate Mr 
Cs strength of feeling, and he is able to contact the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, with any suggestions he has for industry change. But as I think that Rathbone 
acted in line with industry practice, it wouldnt be fair of me to find it shouldve transferred the 
cash at the start of the process. And as Ive already said, since it was open to Mr C to 
arrange for the transfer of the cash outside of the whole transfer process, I cant hold 
Rathbone responsible for any loss Mr C mayve suffered. 
Rathbone said:It was disappointed that I had focused on the initial two week delay, as it was 
because of this delay that the case was prioritized to ensure the remainder of the 
process took place within its overall internal SLA of 30 working days ( although as 
previously advised this can vary depending on holdings as well as the ability of the 
counterparty to accept the holdings).
The delay in transferring the cash from 24 to 27 December was caused by the 
contradictory instructions received from Provider R and Provider C. But for that, the 
cash wouldve been processed on 24 December, well within its internal SLAs.
Nothwithstanding the above, in order to bring the matter to a speedy conclusion for 
Mr C, it was prepared to accept my provisional findings and proposed resolution. 
Ive thought carefully about Rathbones comments. I appreciate it says it speeded up the 
process after its initial delay and that it was the contradictory instructions that caused the 
delay with the cash transfer over the Christmas period. Ive been unable to locate a 
reference by Rathbone to its internal SLA of 30 working days to complete a transfer 
(although its possible Ive overlooked it in the file). But even if that is the case, Im not 
satisfied that if it had been allocated in line with the Rathbone procedure, it still wouldve 
been delayed by the Christmas period. Resolving the contradictory instructions only took one 
day. I think it is more likely than not the payment couldve been processed before that 
period. But I dont think this point is central to the resolution of the complaint anyway, since 
Mr Cs concern was that the cash wasnt transferred as the start of the transfer process. 
Having carefully considered the comments of the parties, I still think my provisional decision 
was the right one, for the reasons I have in it which Ive reproduced earlier in this decision. 
So I see no reason to change it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Rathbone Investment Management Limited must:
(a) apologise in writing to Mr C for the delay in actioning his transfer request; and
(b) pay Mr C £200 for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman