DRN-4422620
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Unum Ltd didnt settle a critical illness claim in full.
What happened
In summary Mrs A suffered a heart attack and Mr A claimed under his group policy, which 
also covered Mrs A. Unum paid the claim, but Mr A felt the payment should have been 
£50,000 rather than £25,000.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. Mr A appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the background to this complaint is well known to the parties, Ive focused on what I find 
are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Although I recognise that Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, for the following reasons 
I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator:
Mr As cover started on 1 April 2015  the benefit was then £25,000. I havent 
disregarded Mr As representation that hed had the policy for 20 years. However that 
doesnt accord with the evidence I have seen which confirmed he, and Mrs A joined 
the scheme in April 2015.
Mr A decided to increase the cover limit and was increased to £50,000 on 1 April 
2023. However the change to benefit meant certain policy exclusions applied, 
including the related and pre-existing exclusion. Im satisfied that is clear from the 
policy document that pre-existing and related conditions exclusion will apply from all 
increases in benefit that are not related to an increase in salary. 
Sadly on 16 April 2023 Mrs A suffered a heart attack. As Mrs A had suffered a 
related cardiac event in 2008, benefit was paid only up to the pre-benefit increase on 
1 April 2023. I find that was fair and accords with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr A has queried why benefit was paid at all if the policy conditions are followed. This 
is because Unum has treated Mrs As heart event in 2008 as a related condition, 
rather than a critical illness. This meant the condition was ignored after two years and 
a claim was payable. But the increase in benefit in April 2023 triggered the two-year 
restriction again  so for a related condition, two years needed to pass before the 
increase would be applicable to this claim. 
In all the circumstances I dont find that Unum incorrectly settled the claim for Mrs A, 
that the settlement was contrary to the policy terms or unfair. It follows that there is 
no basis for me to require Unum to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman