DRN-2711037
The complaint
 Mr A complains about Bastion Insurance Co (Bastion) for a declined claim under his gadget 
insurance policy. 
 
What happened
 
Mr A damaged his phone and on the same day reported the incident to his broker. A few 
days later his broker asked Mr A to pay the outstanding premiums on the policy, so that his 
claim could be made. Mr A immediately paid this. 
The claim was then passed on to Bastion, the insurer. It provided Mr A with a list of 
information that it required. Mr A said that he obtained everything that Bastion asked for. But 
following the submission of the information, Bastion told Mr A that it required more evidence 
of the damage to the phone and asked him to get a report. 
Mr A despite attempting to obtain a report, told Bastion that he couldnt provide the report 
that it required as the phone manufacturer told him it couldnt give him a report. Following on 
from this, Bastion declined Mr As claim, due to insufficient evidence. 
Mr A chose to repair the phone himself, as he had been without a phone for around a month. 
This cost him £239 and he asked Bastion to cover this cost, which it refused to do. 
In its final response, Bastion said that the claim failed key conditions of the policy. These 
were, the notification of the claim outside the period, there wasnt enough documentation 
provided by Mr A to process the claim, the phone had cosmetic damage which under the 
policy wasnt covered and Mr A repaired the phone without prior authorisation from Bastion. 
Mr A was unhappy and had referred a complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and upheld it. She addressed the key conditions identified by 
Bastion for the reason why it declined the claim. 
Her view was that although Mr A didnt adhere to some of the timescales, the notification to 
the incorrect company didnt prejudice Bastion. She said that the lack of the expert report 
that could detail the damage to the phone didnt prevent Bastion from making an informed 
decision on the evidence Mr A had already provided. She found that the phone had more 
than just cosmetic damage and so she recommended that Bastion reimburse the cost of the 
repair of the phone. She also said that Bastion ought to pay compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused, of eight percent on top of the cost of the repair. 
Mr A accepted our investigators view. Bastion did not. It reiterated that Mr A had failed to 
comply with the core requirements of the terms and conditions of the policy, so it asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, I will be upholding Mr As complaint and I hope my findings go some way 
in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
The main issues here are the core requirements that Bastion gave as reasons to decline Mr 
As claim. I have considered each in turn. 
Claim made outside the timeframe
Bastion said that Mr A didnt submit his claim within 48 hours as he was required to do under 
the policy terms. But I have looked at the circumstances of Mr A logging his claim. Mr A said 
that on 27 December 2019 he accidently damaged his phone. On that day he logged his 
claim on his brokers website. I have looked at the brokers website and it contains a section 
on how to lodge a claim. It says: Logging a claim is quick and easy. You can log a claim 
in your customer portal 24 hours per day 365 days of the year.  Mr A has provided evidence 
to show that he logged the claim on the same day that the incident occurred, on the brokers 
website. 
I asked Mr A if he had received a copy of the terms and conditions, to which he confirmed 
that he did. Having reviewed the terms and conditions it provides that when a policyholder 
wishes to make a claim, they should contact the claims handler. Bastion said that Mr A 
failed to contact the claims handler within 48 hours of the damage occurring on the phone 
and this was one of the reasons why it declined Mr As claim. 
The terms and conditions go on to define what is meant by claims handler as: Claims 
handler means Bastion or an agent appointed by them. So, I am satisfied that the broker 
was appointed to act on behalf of Bastion and as there is evidence from Mr A that he 
contacted the broker and logged his claim within 48 hours, as he was supposed to have 
done, then I think that Bastion was unreasonable to decline his claim for this reason. 
Obtaining a check device report outside the timeframe.
Bastion also declined Mr As claim as it said he had failed to provide the check device report 
within the timeframe. Having reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy, it said that 
policyholders are to run a check device report within 24 hours of the damage happening. 
And they should provide Bastion with the report upon request. Although I accept that Mr A 
didnt run the check device report within the allotted timeframe. He did however, provide 
Bastion with a report upon request. So, I think Bastion were unfair in declining Mr As claim 
for this reason as well. 
I also note that the report that was provided, didnt contain any information that changed 
from Mr As initial report of the damage. And because of this, I dont think Bastion was 
prejudiced by the delay in not obtaining the check device report within 24 hours. 
Insufficient evidence to progress the claim.
Bastion said that Mr A (despite being asked) had failed to provide a repair estimate that 
would report the condition of the phone, which it said was crucial information it required in 
order to assess the level of damage to the phone. Mr A said that he attempted to obtain the 
estimate as he was asked, but the phone manufacturer wouldnt supply this to him. He did 
however provide an online quotation of repair. I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy and contained in the repairs to 
gadgets section, there is provision for Bastion to have taken the phone from Mr A and 
assessed the damage to it. And following on from that assessment, decide whether it repairs 
the phone, replaces it or writes it off. I think that as Bastion were unhappy with the reason 
that Mr A had given (that is, he was unable to get the repair estimate as it wanted) then it 
was open for them to have told Mr A to send the phone to them and for them to have carried 
out an assessment of the damage, which it said was so crucial to the claim. 
The fact that Bastion didnt do this, I think is unfair and unreasonable for it to have declined 
Mr As claim, for this reason as well.
Repair without prior authorization. 
Bastion said that Mr A repaired his phone without getting any prior authority from them to do 
so. This meant that it was denied the opportunity to assess the damage to the phone or to 
assess if the claim was a valid one. It has also relied upon an exclusion clause in the policy, 
which said that any costs that a policy holder incurs without prior authority from Bastion, 
Bastion wont be liable to meet those costs. 
I have looked at the timeline of the claim. Briefly, it was:
27 December 2019, Mr A reports damage to the phone
6 January 2020 Bastion requests information from Mr As Broker, which Mr A provides
10 January 2020 Bastion request further information from Mr A. Mr A returns claims form 
and asks when he will hear about the claim, to be told within 72 hours.
17/18 January Mr A calls Bastion to chase, as he hadnt heard anything. Mr A told that the 
72-hour time limit was incorrect, and it still hadnt received the repairs estimate (despite Mrs 
A believing he had sent it to them).
19 January 2020 Mr A attends manufacturers repair shop to get a detailed repair estimate 
but was told that this couldnt be provided. Mr A informs Bastion of this.
21 January 2020 Bastion decline Mr As claim based on insufficient information. Mr A asked 
Bastion if it would cover the cost of the repairs if he paid for them himself. 
26 January 2020 Mr A takes phone to be repaired and pays for the cost of the repair. 
From the evidence, Mr A had been without a working phone for around a month. Bastions 
reason for declining the claim, was that it was denied the opportunity to assess the damage 
of the phone as Mr A got his phone repaired without its authorisation. But, from the timeline, 
Bastion had already declined his claim and I think as it had been declined, Mr A wouldnt 
have needed Bastions authority to repair it. So, I think it was unreasonable to decline the 
claim on this basis too. 
Cosmetic damage 
Bastion also declined the claim as it said that the damage was limited to the screen only and 
as Mrs A had repaired the phone without providing a report on the damage, there was no 
further evidence to support that the device suffered from any mechanical or operational 
damage. But I dont agree, and Ill explain why. 
I have reviewed the claim form and photographs Mr A submitted. Within the form he gave 
details about the nature of the damage to the phone. Although I accept that it did include 
cracks to the screen. It also provided details that the touch functions were impaired and that 
a line was now showing on the screen. So, I dont agree that the damage caused to the 
phone was just cosmetic as it caused an operational impairment of the phone. Bastion said that it was denied the ability to assess the damage to the phone, but as I 
previously said, it couldve asked Mr A to send the phone for it to assess. So, I dont think 
Bastion was reasonable in declining the claim for this reason either. 
Bastion has said that as some of the damage was cosmetic and therefore not covered under 
the policy, the £239 claimed for the repair should be reduced to account for the cosmetic 
damage. 
Mr A provided the repair quote, which I am told is a standard charge for the cost of the 
impaired screen, which takes into account the cracks on the screen. Consequently, as there 
is no breakdown of the cost of repair, I dont think its reasonable that Bastion should only 
reimburse Mr A, a portion of the amount claimed.
Putting things right
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I think there is enough evidence to show that 
Bastion acted unfairly. Im therefore going to recommend that Bastion reimburse Mr A the 
cost of the repair of the phone of £239. 
I am also satisfied that Mr A wouldve suffered from a degree of inconvenience as a result of 
Bastion unreasonably declining his claim, so it should pay Mr A compensation of £50.  
  
My final decision
 For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
Bastion Insurance Co should reimburse the cost of the repair of the phone of £236. 
It should also pay £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Bastion Insurance Co must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman