DRN-2746498
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the refusal of his claim for a stolen laptop under his gadget 
insurance policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr M was returning home with some shopping, he also had his laptop in a separate bag.   
He could not park immediately outside his own property and had to park a little way down 
the street. Mr M is also disabled and could not carry everything to his property in one go. He 
says he unloaded the car of all the bags onto the pavement and locked his car. Mr M says 
he then took the bags to the door of his property in relays  taking one or two at a time, 
leaving them by the entrance and returning to the car for the others. Some of his bags were 
therefore away from him for short period of time. He later discovered the laptop was missing. 
Assurant says the laptop was left unattended and Mr M had not taken reasonable care of it 
as required by the policy and so refused the claim. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied that Assurant had applied the terms of the policy fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mr M does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy provides cover for theft of his laptop but like all such insurance policies, this is 
subject to certain terms and conditions. The terms relevant to Mr Ms claim include that 
reasonable care is taken of the insured item; and if it is left anywhere it needs to be out of 
sight and locked away. This is in line with all other such insurance policies. 
I have listened to a call in which Mr M described what happened and how he moved his 
bags from the car to his property and have considered all the other written evidence. He 
says he can only walk slowly due to his disability and it is unfair therefore to refuse the claim 
because he was unable to carry everything at once. However, he also says this could have 
happened to anyone who is bringing home several bags and thieves are clever and quick 
when the opportunity arises. Mr M also said, in response to the investigators assessment, 
that the bags were never out of his sight; elsewhere he says they were out of sight but for 
only up to 15 seconds at the most. However, Mr M also says the car was parked several 
metres away from the property entrance. It seems to me  therefore that he would have had 
his back to some of the bags for a period of time, as he was relaying them from the car to 
the property, and so was not in a position to either see the theft or prevent it. 
While I can entirely understand the situation Mr M was in and why he did what he did, it 
seems to me that Mr M was aware there was a risk in leaving his possessions either by the 
car or by the entrance to the property but thought it was a risk worth taking, as he did not 
plan to leave them for long. 
Having taken account of all the circumstances, I do not consider that Mr M took reasonable 
care of the laptop and there were other things he could have done which would have 
reduced the risk of theft (such as leaving the laptop locked in the car until he was able to 
retrieve it). Assurant has not therefore acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining this claim. 
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ms position, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman