DRN-1581681
Complaint 
Mrs G complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
in March 2003.
Although the PPI was sold by another business AXA France IARD has taken responsibility 
for this complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to AXA throughout this decision.
Background
Mrs G applied for the PPI over the telephone sometime after she had taken out her store 
card. This policy covered her if she lost her job, was off work because she was sick, or if she 
had an accident. The policy cost no more than £1.00 for every £100.00 of the outstanding 
balance owed on the card. On a successful claim, it would have paid 15% of that balance 
until the outstanding balance on the card was repaid or until Mrs G returned to work.
Our adjudicator said he didn't think this was a case that should be upheld. Mrs G disagreed 
with our adjudicators view. She asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below.
As AXA had to give Mrs G an option whether to buy the PPI or not, the first thing Ive 
considered is whether Mrs G had a fair choice about buying the policy. This PPI was taken 
out over the telephone sometime after she had taken out her store card. As such a long time 
has passed since the time of the sale, AXA cant provide me with a call recording. This is not 
unusual as businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. But where the 
information is incomplete, I will make my decision based on the balance of probabilities. That 
is the standard I will use to decide whats more likely to have happened, considering what 
the parties have told me, the paperwork that is available and also thinking about what we 
know about how this business conducted these types of sales at the time.
Taking everything into account, it's more likely the script from the time would have prompted 
the representative to explain the options and would have given Mrs G a choice about 
whether she wanted to buy it. I also think its more likely that the cost of the PPI would have 
appeared on Mrs Gs card statements. So, if she didn't want it or wasn't aware she had 
taken it out, she could have questioned it at the time. I havent seen evidence she has done 
so.On balance, I think its more likely that Mrs G agreed to take the PPI out at the time knowing 
she could refuse it if she didn't want it, even if its understandable if she cant remember that 
now after such a long time. 
I dont think AXA recommended this policy to Mrs G. So, it didn't have to make sure it was 
suitable for her circumstances. But it still had to give her enough clear information, so she 
could decide for herself whether she wanted to take out the policy or decline it.
Its possible that not all the information was as clear as it should have been. But even if the 
information could have been clearer that doesn't mean I can automatically uphold 
this complaint. I must next decide whether Mrs G would have acted differently if shed been 
given all the information she should have been given. 
To help me decide, Ive thought about the terms and conditions of the policy and Mrs Gs 
personal circumstances. Taking these things into account, I still think Mrs G would have 
bought the cover. 
I say this as it appears Mrs G was eligible for the policy. And as she was in full time 
employment and had no pre-existing medical conditions, I dont think she would have been 
affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions of the policy which might have made it 
more difficult to make a successful claim.
Mrs G has told us she would have received sick pay from work. She has also told us that 
she could have relied on family and friends, and she had a partner who could have helped if 
things went wrong. I can see if Mrs G had to make a claim on the PPI, 15% of her balance 
would have been paid every month until the balance was repaid. It would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay she received and likely for longer. And although I accept her partner 
and family and friends would have wanted to help, peoples circumstances can change. So, I 
dont think this type of help is guaranteed as and when it is needed and for so long. Overall, I 
still think the policy was useful to her. 
So, for the reasons Ive given above I still think the PPI could have been useful if Mrs G lost 
her job or couldn't work. And it looks as though she chose to buy the insurance  so it seems 
like she wanted that type of cover at the time. I also havent seen anything to suggest the 
premiums were unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Mrs G would have acted 
differently even if AXA had given her more or better information about the policy. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but after taking everything into account, it follows that I 
havent upheld her complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. I dont 
require AXA France IARD to take any further action in respect of it. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman