DRN-3848615
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) took seven weeks to return 
funds to another bank (bank 2) where they have accounts. They feel the YBSs offer of £200 
compensation does not adequately recognise the impact of its failings on them.
What happened
Bank 2 sent a second payment of £4,000 to YBS to ensure Mr and Mrs W suffered no loss of 
interest after it had made a mistake with the payment reference on an earlier payment of 
£4,000. But both transfers arrived successfully. One then needed to be returned to bank 2, it 
was transferred to YBSs holding account on 28 July. Mr and Mrs W says they then had to 
spend a lot of time on the phone and make two branch visits to ensure the second sum was 
returned. This went on between 26 July 2022 and 13 September 2022. 
YBS agreed its service had fallen short of what Mr and Mrs W were entitled to expect. For 
this it offered £200 as an apology and to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. 
But it said it had kept the £4,000 in its holding account for 18 days after it had been told by 
Mr W on 26 August that it just needed returning to the sending account at bank 2, not an 
account in Mr and Mrs Ws name and this was its error.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, saying he found YBSs offer to be 
fair. He agreed YBS had held the money in error for 18 days not 7 weeks, saying it could 
only count from 26 August 2022 when Mr W had confirmed where it should be sent after the 
letter of 19 August 2022.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsmans review. They said 
the same problem happened on a transfer Mrs W made from her sole name account at bank 
2, but this was revolved without her involvement, or a long delay. They asked why YBS is 
claiming they only held the money incorrectly for 18 days when it was 49 days from 26 July 
to 13 September 2022. YBS wrote to them on 19 August but on 26 August they went to a 
branch and were told everything was ok - their passbook showed the additional payment had 
credited and debited their account on the same day (26 July). When they received a letter on 
12 September 2022 from bank 2 asking for the money they realised all was not resolved. 
They went back to the branch the next day and say this was the first time they were asked 
where the money should be sent to, and the money was then returned to bank 2, arriving the 
following day. In the meantime bank 2 had debited their current account and so they were 
without those funds until YBS returned the £4,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory (as some if it is here) I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I find is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I have considered all of Mr and Mrs Ws comments carefully. I mean no discourtesy but this, 
but in keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service  and as our rules allow 
 I will focus here on the issues I find to be material to the outcome of the complaint.
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see they have been involved in a frustrating incident, caused initially by an error on the 
part of bank 2. And at times YBS branch staff have given them incomplete information by 
only checking the money had debited their account, and not checking that it had been 
correctly returned to Lloyds. 
The main issue that remains in dispute in this case is for how long YBS can be seen to be  
responsible for holding the funds, without reason, that needed to be returned to bank 2. Mr 
and Mrs W feel strongly it is from the point it received the two credits for £4,000. They were 
told by the branch that it had all been sorted. Their account shows the second payment was 
debited from their account on 28 July 2022. YBS argues it is from 26 August when Mr W 
confirmed the funds should be sent to bank 2s account, not their account at bank 2. Mr W 
says YBSs version of events is wrong as he was not asked where the money should be sent 
until 13 September 2022. I dont doubt this is his honest recollection, but there is some 
conflicting evidence. 
The contact notes YBS sent in show Mr W called on 25 August in response to the letter YBS 
sent on 19 August 2022, and on 26 August YBS called Mr W with further questions. I asked 
for copies of these calls and have listened to them. On the call on 26 August 2022 Mr W 
confirmed to the advisor that it had been agreed the £4,000 credit with the incorrect 
reference should go directly back to Lloyds. 
The notes from the call also capture this, saying Mr W confirmed the £4,000 was owed 
directly to bank 2, not to their account at bank 2. I therefore find that it was from this date 
that YBS is in the wrong as it had the information it needed to return the money to bank 2. 
Mr and Mrs W have also said they were then without funds for 8/9 days as bank 2 then 
debited the amount from their current account when YBS had not returned it. But they have 
not submitted evidence of any financial loss this caused them for me to consider. And given 
bank 2 caused the initial problem I would think this should be taken up with it, not YBS.
I can see that this issue has caused Mr and Mrs W considerable distress and inconvenience 
as they have needed to invest time in resolving it. But I find £200 to be a fair settlement 
given the scope and duration of the issue. Mr and Mrs W rejected this offer previously, so I 
will leave them to contact YBS directly if they now wish to accept it. They should do so within 
30 days of receiving this final decision. 
To be clear, I am not finding there were no failings on YBSs part, rather that its settlement 
offer of £200 fairly recognises the trouble it caused Mr and Mrs W whilst trying to resolve 
bank 2s error.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman