DRN-1504415
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2003 in connection with a credit card. Mrs H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold 
her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs H said she was told she had to have PPI to get the credit card. The PPI was sold to her 
during a telephone call which she made to activate the credit card. Our adjudicator thought 
the complaint should be rejected. Mrs H disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for 
the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Having looked at a copy of the call script which Capital One said would have been 
used in 2003, I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the 
PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs 
H. 
 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - including what she said about her savings 
and her family and partner being able to make credit card repayments for her. However, this 
was most likely a non-advised sale, and Capital One didnt have to assess her financial 
needs  that was a matter for Mrs H to do and as she would have been aware of her other 
support to make that assessment, the points she has raised dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman