DRN-3500801
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the service he received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(D&G) when he reported a fault with a washing machine. Mr S holds an appliance 
breakdown policy with D&G. 
All reference to the insurer D & G includes its agents.
What happened
On 29 June 2021 a letting agent on behalf of tenants of Mr Ss contacted D&G to report a 
fault with a washing machine. Mr S said D&G told the letting agent it wouldnt be able to 
speak to them and that Mr S as the policyholder would need to contact them. 
Mr S called D&G, reported the fault and an appointment was arranged for 9 July 2021. Mr S 
said he was told by D&G that this was a provisional appointment as it would look to bring 
forward the appointment date. Mr S said he explained his tenants had two young children 
and so needed to use the washing machine as a priority. 
On the morning of 9 July 2021 D&G sent a text to the tenant to cancel the appointment. A 
revised appointment date was confirmed for 15 July 2021. D&G said the reason for 
cancelling the appointment was because it needed to pre-order a part. 
Mr S said after discussion with the letting agent, they were able to arrange for an engineer to 
attend the property and repair the washing machine on 9 July 2021. 
In July 2021 Mr S complained to D&G. He was unhappy with the length of time hed had to 
spend in calls which he said came to over three hours. He was unhappy with the response 
he received when he asked why D&G had ordered a part before inspecting the machine, and 
why it hadnt ordered the part on 29 June 2021 instead of on 9 July 2021. 
Mr S said D&G had offered him £20 which he didnt accept. He wanted D&G to reimburse 
him for three hours of his time at his hourly employment rate, so £261. He said he paid an 
engineer fee of £44 and reimbursed the tenant for launderette fees (two amounts have been 
quoted of £52 and £38). 
Mr S cancelled his Direct Debit Instruction (DDI) for the policy. He told D&G he wouldnt 
resume payments until he received a satisfactory response to his complaint. 
D&G wrote to Mr S to confirm while his DDI was cancelled there would be no cover for the 
appliance. 
On 24 August 2021 Mr S asked us to look at his complaint. He said he hadnt received a 
reply from D&G. 
D&G issued its response to Mr Ss complaint on 26 August 2021 and upheld it. D&G 
apologised for the wait times and the way the calls were handled when Mr S and the letting 
agent made contact and discussed the appointment times and the pre-ordering of a part. 
It agreed the part should have been ordered sooner so as to prevent the appointment from 
being cancelled. For the poor service provided, D&G paid compensation of £70.
D&G said it would consider further compensation on receipt of costs for an engineer and 
launderette fees.
In April 2022 our Investigator issued her view. She thought D&G had made errors. But she 
thought it had done enough to put things right. She didnt think it had acted incorrectly in 
suspending the policy when Mr S cancelled the DDI. 
She noted that the invoice provided by Mr S with the letting agent showed a deduction of 
£44 for an engineer to clean out filter on washer. She explained that the policy provided 
cover for the breakdown of the washing machine, but didnt provide cover for the costs of 
routine maintenance, cleaning or loss from not being able to use the appliance for these 
reasons. 
Mr S didnt accept the Investigators findings. It became clear that Mr S hadnt received 
D&Gs final response to his complaint dated 26 August 2021. Our Investigator sent Mr S a 
copy. 
The Investigator noted that D&G had written to the tenants address instead of Mr S when 
replying to his complaint. However, she said it remained that what D&G had said was 
reasonable. 
In response to Mr Ss rejection of her view, she explained that as Mr S had deducted the 
costs of the launderette fees from the tenants rent, she thought it reasonable to ask Mr S for 
his proof of this. She could see from the letting agents invoice the deduction for the 
engineers visit of £44 had been recorded. The Investigator forwarded the invoice to D&G as 
Mr S requested.
The Investigator reiterated that she thought it reasonable for a customer to have to spend 
some time dealing with a claim. As Mr S couldnt evidence financial loss as a result of his 
time spent dealing with the claim, she thought the compensation D&G had paid for the 
inconvenience caused was fair.
Mr S didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. He said all previous correspondence 
regarding his complaint and the policy by D&G has been sent to his address as the 
policyholder. He says the tenants have been fairly methodical in forwarding any mail that 
arrives for Mr S to the address via the letting agent, but Mr S didnt receive this letter. Mr S 
suspects D&G didnt send it on 26 August 2021 and was created after he contacted this 
service. 
Having read the response, in summary Mr S says the following: 
D&G told him it couldnt discuss the claim with the letting agent due to data 
protection rules. Mr S says this is incorrect as it dealt with a previous claim in 
2018 via the letting agent. So, he didnt need to be involved.
He believes he is entitled to compensation of £261 as requested as this was time 
taken out of his working day to deal with D&G. Mr S said he takes out these 
policies and delegates to the letting agent so as to avoid his own time being 
spent having to get involved with maintenance repairs.
He says he doesnt have a receipt for the launderette fees and it is unreasonable 
after the time that has passed to now request this evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused on the salient points of Mr Ss complaint. D&G upheld Mr Ss complaint. It accepted that it didnt handle the claim as it should have 
and that Mr S had to spend more than a reasonable amount of time in calls. I can see that 
D&G wrote to the tenants address on 26 August 2021 when responding to his complaint. I 
agree with Mr S that this was incorrect. I can see D&G acknowledged his complaint and sent 
previous correspondence to his address. 
Ive considered whether the outcome would have been different if D&G had sent its 
response to Mr Ss address in August 2021. As Mr S didnt accept the findings by D&G, I 
think he would have contacted this service and ultimately asked for a final decision in any 
event. 
So the remaining issue for me to decide is whether D&G has done enough to resolve Mr Ss 
complaint. 
I cant consider what happened under an earlier claim as a comparison as this doesnt form 
part of Mr Ss complaint to D&G. And D&G accepts that it handled the claim poorly. If it had 
handled the claim properly, an engineer would have visited to inspect the washing machine 
promptly. I dont know if the works would have been covered however, given the description 
provided by the engineer on the invoice provided by Mr S seems to suggest the issue was a 
cleaning issue. As we have sent the invoice to D&G, it is a matter for it to consider. 
Mr S told us : I compensated the tenants for what I consider was their reasonable expenses 
over the period the machine was out of action. So I think Mr S could provide reasonable 
evidence of the compensation he paid for D&G to consider in line with their letter dated 26 
August 2021.
I understand Mr S feels the compensation award should reflect the time he took and his 
hourly rate of pay. We dont consider it reasonable to ask an insurer to compensate this way 
unless there is evidence of financial loss. So we look at our approach to compensation for 
inconvenience caused. Its inevitable that there will be some time and inconvenience in 
having to deal with a claim. Where that inconvenience is over and above what we would 
expect any customer to experience, as in this case, I think the compensation D&G awarded 
of £70 is fair. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S. But I think D&G has done enough to resolve his complaint. So 
Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman