DRN-4426740
The complaint
Miss H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC)
What happened
In March 2016, Miss H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P, to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Miss H decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In January 2020, the CMC made a claim on Miss Hs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Miss H to enter into the contract with P.
The CMC said the following misrepresentation had been made:
The system would be self-funding through the feed-in tariff payments and electricity 
savings it would generate.
Shawbrook didnt respond to the complaint until after it was referred to us. Shawbrook told 
us it didnt think the system had been misrepresented. It offered for P to inspect the system 
to investigate under-generation of electricity that was noted by our investigator. 
P found that the system was working but had been installed in a way that meant it did not 
maximise exposure to the sun (that is, it was on the wrong side of the house, facing more 
north than south). P has since moved the system onto the more south-facing roof, which 
should improve performance.
Shawbrook offered compensation for the under-generation up to the point the system was 
moved, a total of £1,029.40, to reflect the loss of feed-in tariff payments and electricity 
savings, relative to what was in the quote, plus £200 compensation for the time it took to 
respond to the complaint.
The CMC said that Miss H didnt accept this. It maintained the system had been 
misrepresented and the compensation should make the system self-funding over the term of 
the loan.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision explaining that I was planning to uphold this complaint and setting out 
how I was planning to say that Shawbrook should put things right. Neither Shawbrook nor 
Miss H responded to my provisional decision. So this final decision is in line with my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act.
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Miss H and P, as the supplier, are deemed to 
have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. Section 75 provides protection for 
consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Miss H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, section 75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Miss H could claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could have claimed 
against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken this into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact, or law, made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Miss H says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be self-funding 
through the feed-in tariff payments and electricity savings.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The credit agreement sets out the cash price of the goods, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
On balance Im satisfied that Miss H was told that the cost of the system was £8,024.00. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £8,024.00. The monthly payment was £86.07. The total 
amount of credit is £7,924.00 and the total amount payable would be £15,592.60.
The quote showed the expected monthly loan repayment was £85.74. Miss H deferred her 
payments for a few months which is reflected in her credit agreement and her monthly 
payment is marginally higher as a result at £86.07  but I dont think these differences make 
the quote mis-leading. Miss H knew approximately how much shed have to pay each month 
before she agreed to the purchase, and the actual amount was shown on the credit 
agreement which she signed.
Overall, Im satisfied that the quote and the credit agreement both made it clear that 
although the cost of the system was £8,024.00, it would cost Miss H more than this as she 
had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
Miss H has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss H could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss H could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £186.30, which results in an average monthly income of £15.52. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of about £86. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss H could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings are £168.00 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £354.30. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months since this is 
the length of the loan that Miss H entered into with Shawbrook.
This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £85.74. For each year of 
the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages 
that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the indicative monthly loan repayment of £85.74, 
to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly 
loan repayment in each year.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss H could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table clearly sets out that the overall income Miss H could expect to receive by way of FIT 
income and any additional savings would not at any stage be sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments.
Ive carefully thought about the consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at 
the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that the overall benefits that Miss H could expect to 
receive would not exceed the total amount payable under the loan agreement within that 
time.
Im satisfied that P told Miss H that the system would not pay for itself either on a monthly 
basis nor within the loan term
System performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system in terms of electricity generation and 
whether this is in line with the contract between P and Miss H. The MCS certificate and 
quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,733 kWh per year. And the benefits 
shown in the quote were calculated based on that level of generation.
I have looked at Miss Hs FIT statements and can see that the system, on average, has 
generated 2,350 kWh annually. This is significantly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that is a breach of contract, as the performance of the system in terms 
of electricity generation is significantly different to that described within the quote. That will 
have caused a loss to Miss H, since the quoted financial benefits of the system are derived 
from the amount of electricity generated.
I think the appropriate remedy for this would be for the under-generation to be rectified if 
possible, and the shortfall in financial benefits between what is shown in the quote and what 
has been achieved so far, and any expected future shortfall for the remaining term of the 
loan, should be paid to Miss H. This will put Miss H in a position as close as possible to the 
position she wouldve been in if nothing had gone wrong (that is that the system had 
generated electricity in line with the contract and quote).
P has identified that the system was installed on the wrong part of the roof, but it has now 
put that right. I assume that has resolved the under-generation issue. I have explained below 
how I think Shawbrook should put things right, including where the relocation of the panels is 
not expected to fully resolved the under-generation issue. 
Putting things right
To put things right Im planning to say that Shawbrook should:
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income 
(through FIT and savings) for Miss H and what the sales paperwork set out as being 
the annual total income savings,
b) add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay the total to Miss H.
This should be done up to the point the solar panels were relocated to the correct part of the 
roof.
If the relocation of the panels is shown to not have resulted in the system generating 
electricity as expected (that is the updated MCS certificate shows the system is expected to 
generate significantly less than 2,733 kWh per year) then to ensure that Miss H doesnt lose 
out going forward, Shawbrook should then:
c) calculate the expected annual underperformance percentage (comparing the new 
MCS certificate generation figure to the original figure of 2,733 kWh), and assume 
that the panels will underperform at that rate through to the conclusion of the finance 
agreement
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward until the 
conclusion of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction 
identified in c) above
e) pay Miss H the difference between the revised amounts calculated in d) above and 
the total income savings set out in the sales paperwork.
I can see Shawbrook has offered £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused and I 
think thats a fair offer and Shawbrook should also pay this to Miss H if it hasnt already done 
so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman