DRN-3717020
The complaint
Mr N complains that AWP P&C SA turned down a cancellation claim he made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N booked a trip abroad. He was due to travel in December 2021. In October 2021, he 
took out a travel insurance policy through a broker, which was underwritten by AWP.
Unfortunately, shortly before he was due to travel, Mr N tested positive for Covid-19. So he 
cancelled his holiday and made a claim on his travel insurance policy for costs associated 
with the cancellation costs of the trip.
AWP turned down the claim. It stated that the policy specifically excluded claims caused by 
Covid-19. So it said that Mr Ns claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr N was unhappy with AWPs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said 
that when he took out the policy, he was assured that hed be covered for Covid-19 related 
claims.
Our investigator thought itd been fair for AWP to turn down Mr Ns claim. She explained that 
AWP hadnt sold the policy to him, so it wasnt responsible for anything that had happened at 
the point of policy sale. And she noted that the policy explicitly excluded claims related to 
Covid-19. So she didnt think the claim was covered.
But the investigator thought that it shouldve been clear to AWP that Mr Ns claim wasnt 
covered from the start. Instead, itd asked him for information and put him to some time and 
inconvenience in doing so. Therefore, she thought AWP should pay Mr N £50 compensation.
As AWP didnt let us know whether or not it accepted this recommendation, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
Its important that I make it clear that this decision will only consider AWPs handling of this 
claim. I appreciate Mr N feels he was given wrong and misleading information when the 
policy was sold to him. But as our investigator explained, AWP didnt sell the policy. Mr N 
took out the policy through a broker, which is an entirely separate legal entity, and which is 
regulated by the industry regulator in its own right. If Mr N wishes to make a complaint about 
the sale of the policy, hell need to get in touch with the broker which sold it to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I think it was fair for AWP to turn down this claim, I dont think it 
handled the claim as well as it shouldve done, and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ns policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether AWP treated 
him fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ns 
contract with AWP. Mr N provided evidence of a positive PCR test, which showed hed 
contracted Covid-19 and was therefore unable to travel. The cancellation section of the 
policy does cover a policyholders illness and I accept that Mr N had been diagnosed with an 
illness.
However, the policy also sets out a list of defined events which AWP has specifically chosen 
to exclude from policy cover.  Page 14 of the policy says that AWP wont for any claims 
which are caused directly or indirectly by:
Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) or any mutation of the disease.
Its clear, based on the evidence Ive seen, that the reason Mr N had to cancel his trip was 
because hed caught Covid-19. And therefore, I dont think it was unfair for AWP to conclude 
that his claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. It follows that I think it was reasonable for 
AWP not to accept or pay Mr Ns claim.
With that said, I think it shouldve been clear to AWP that the claim wouldnt be covered at 
the point Mr N first contacted it. And his claim couldve been turned down at an early stage, 
with no potential loss of expectation. Instead, he was asked to provide additional information 
in support of his claim, which AWP acknowledged was unnecessary. I can see he also 
contacted AWP to discuss its request before he was ultimately told why his claim wouldnt be 
paid. I think then that Mr N was put to some inconvenience and likely suffered a small loss of 
expectation when he learned that the claim wasnt covered. And so I agree that it would be 
fair for AWP to pay Mr N £50 compensation to reflect the impact its handling of the claim 
likely had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that AWP didnt handle Mr Ns claim 
fairly.
I direct AWP P&C SA to pay Mr N £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman