DRN-2664212
The complaint
Mr N complains he was unable to make an online payment and feels Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card (HRG) did this to unfairly charge him interest 
and late payment fees.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr N tried to make his final payment for an item hed bought on a store 
card. He did so online, and at the time believed the payment had gone through. However, 
the following month, he received a statement showing his account had a remaining balance 
made of the final payment hed tried to make, with interest and charges added. Mr N was 
unhappy about this and tried to make other online payments, but these didnt go through. He 
also complained to HRG.
HRG investigated Mr Ns complaint and issued their final response. In this, they explained 
they would waive the interest and charges added to Mr Ns account if he made payment 
within the next seven to ten days. Mr N says he didnt receive this letter, and while he was 
waiting to hear from HRG, he tried to make payments online, but faced the same problem.
In November 2020, Mr N received a letter from HRG saying his account was in arrears. 
Given the complaint he had raised, Mr N remained unhappy and contacted HRG. They 
explained they had sent a final response in October and offered to send him another copy. 
They also explained Mr N could make a payment over the phone, but Mr N declined. As 
Mr N remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. When doing so, he told us 
he felt HRG had deliberately prevented him from making payments so that they could charge 
him interest. He also explained he wanted to be compensated for the stress this had caused 
him.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt think Mr Ns complaint should be 
upheld. He said HRG had shown there were problems with their online payment system 
around the time Mr N tried to make his payments. Our investigator also said he thought 
HRGs offer to waive interest and charges, if payment was made, was fair in the 
circumstances. And he added that Mr N ought to have been aware of alternative ways he 
could have made his payment because they are detailed on his statements.
Mr N disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I know this isnt the outcome he hoped 
for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
I need to start by explaining that we dont have the powers to look into the way HRG handled 
Mr Ns complaint. Thats because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity under the rules 
set by the Financial Conduct Authority  and those rules determine the types of complaints 
we can and cannot deal with. Its for this reason, my decision wont be commenting on the 
points Mr N has raised about the time taken for HRG to respond to his complaint. Instead, 
my decision will focus on the problems Mr N encountered when trying to make a payment, 
and the impact this had on him.
Its not disputed that Mr N encountered problems when he tried to make his final payment, 
online, in September 2020. So, Ive had to determine why that payment, and the subsequent 
payments Mr N tried to make, didnt go through. Mr N says there werent any issues with his 
bank, and when making the payment he could see his bank had authorised the transaction. 
And so, he considers HRG prevented the payment going through so that they could add 
interest and fees to his balance.
I can see Mr N feels strongly about this matter, and I understand it would have been 
frustrating when he realised his payments werent being applied to his account. However, 
any decision I make needs to be supported by evidence, and in this case, I havent seen any 
clear evidence that supports Mr Ns theory that HRG were attempting to unfairly apply 
interest and charges to his account. In fact, the evidence Ive seen suggests the opposite.
HRG has said that around the time, and the months following Mr Ns attempted payment, 
they were having problems with their online payment system. Theyve also sent us 
information shared across their business highlighting these ongoing problems, and the fact 
they believed it was being caused by a particular internet browser some of their customers 
were using. Its not unheard of for issues to occur with IT systems from time to time. So, 
I consider their explanation for the problems Mr N faced to be plausible. I also cant ignore 
that its also been supported by information sent around their business at the time. So, I cant 
agree that HRG deliberately prevented Mr N from making payment so that they could apply 
interest and charges to his account.
While Im satisfied HRG didnt deliberately put obstacles in Mr Ns way, when businesses 
like HRG encounter these problems, Id expect them to take steps to ensure their customers 
arent overly impacted by issues out of their control. The type of things I would expect them 
to do would be to highlight the problem with their customers, waive any interest and charges 
applied because the payment didnt go through on time, offer alternative ways to pay  just 
to name a few. 
The information HRG has shared with us shows they werent aware of the problem with their 
online payment system until after Mr N had tried to make his payment in September 2020. 
So, this explains why charges were added to Mr Ns October 2020 statement. But when 
Mr N complained about this, that same month, HRG sent Mr N a final response letter 
explaining the interest and charges would be removed from his account if he made payment 
within the next seven to ten days. That offer is what I would have asked HRG to do had they 
not already taken steps to put things right. So, it was good to see they acknowledged the 
missing payment was out of Mr Ns control and were taking to steps to prevent Mr N being 
unfairly impacted.
Mr N has said he didnt receive the final response letter and has questioned whether it was 
sent. Ive seen system notes from HRG that show this letter was sent to Mr N in 
October 2020, so Im satisfied that was the case. I dont disbelieve Mr N when he says he 
didnt receive the letter, and thats supported by the fact he didnt make a payment within the 
timeframe set by HRG. However, I also dont think it would be fair for HRG to be held 
responsible for problems there may have been with the post  particularly at a time when 
there have been problems with post across the U.K. due to the global pandemic.I appreciate it would have been distressing for Mr N to receive a further letter chasing 
payment in November 2020, particularly as he hadnt received the final response letter. But 
when Mr N spoke with HRG over the phone, they reiterated they would waive the interest 
and charges if Mr N made his final payment. They also offered for him to make payment 
over the phone. I cant see that Mr N took HRG up on their offer, and because of that I dont 
consider Mr N was treated unfairly when interest and charges continued to be applied to his 
account.
HRG has said Mr Ns statements detail alternative ways a balance can be paid. They are 
through an app, online, or over the phone. But Mr N maintains that his statements say he 
can pay online. Ive seen multiple copies of Mr Ns statements, and theyve all listed the 
three options Ive just listed. So, I agree Mr Ns statements said he could pay online, but they 
also explained that wasnt the only option. So, while there was a problem with online 
payments, Mr N could have made a payment over the phone as he had the necessary 
information that would have enabled him to do so when he realised his multiple attempts at 
online payments werent working.
Mr N says he should be compensated because the stress and worry of potentially being 
charged interest and fees has impacted his mental health. When Mr N first became aware of 
the interest and charges, I agree this would have been worrying. But as mentioned above, 
I consider HRGs offer to waive those amounts once payment was made, was a fair in the 
circumstances. I also must place consideration on what Mr N did to mitigate his losses, 
whether they be financial, or non-financial. And from the information Ive seen, including 
Mr Ns own testimony, I dont consider he acted reasonably by refusing to pay a balance he 
legitimately owed for some time. As such, his decision to do that has added to the worry he 
was already experiencing, so it wouldnt be fair to ask HRG to compensate him for that.
I understand Mr N has now made the final payment, and HRG has now confirmed to us they 
will take steps to waive the interest and charges applied to the account. This is what Id 
expect HRG to do, and because of that I wont be asking HRG to do anything further to put 
things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint about Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman