DRN-4130732
The complaint
Mr B complains Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) closed his credit card account without 
prior notice. 
What happened
Mr B says Sainsburys closed his credit card account in March 2023, without any prior 
warning or notice. Mr B says he attempted to use his credit card, but it was rejected so he 
called Sainsburys in late March who informed him the credit card account had been closed. 
Mr B says Sainsburys were unsympathetic and simply told him he could re-apply for a new 
credit card in 90 days.
Mr B says despite what Sainsburys informed him he never received a letter in January 2023 
informing him this would happen. Mr B says he would expect Sainsburys to have notified 
him of this by way of email, text, or registered letter and if it had he would have acted upon it. 
Mr B says he has lost out on the benefits the card offered. Mr B wants Sainsburys to 
reinstate his credit card facility, apologise for the lack of notification and improve its process, 
procedures and communications.
Sainsburys says it acted in line with it process and procedures as Mr Bs credit card account 
hadnt been used for some time. Sainsburys says it wrote to Mr B in August 2022 and 
January 2023 regarding his credit card account, to the address it held on file and it has 
received no returned post. Sainsburys says there has been no bank error and Mr B is free to 
apply for a new credit card 90 days from the date his account was closed.
Mr B wasnt happy with Sainsburys response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didnt feel Sainsburys acted unreasonably when it closed Mr Bs credit card 
account as it had written to Mr B in line with its process and procedures. The investigator 
says she had seen copies of those letters sent in August 2022 and January 2023. The 
investigator says under the terms and conditions of the credit card account, Sainsburys can 
end the agreement as long as it provided two months written notice and she was satisfied it 
had done that here. Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr B to learn his credit card account with 
Sainsburys had been closed without having received any prior notification of this. When 
looking at this complaint I will consider if Sainsburys provided Mr B with reasonable notice of 
the closure of his credit card account. 
Mr Bs complaint centres around the fact he never received any notification from Sainsburys 
of the proposed closure of his credit card account, even though it says it wrote to him about 
this on two separate occasions due to its inactivity. Mr B says he never received any letters 
from Sainsburys, and it should have emailed, text or sent a registered letter to ensure he 
received such communications as he would have acted upon it.
I understand the points Mr B makes here and while I am sympathetic to his situation, 
Sainsburys have acted in line with its process and the terms and conditions of the credit 
card account. I say this because I have seen both the letters addressed to Mr B in August 
2022 and January 2023 advising him he hadnt used his card for some time and then 
informing him if the card wasnt used in the next two months it would be closed. I am 
satisfied Sainsburys acted reasonably here given the credit card account had been inactive 
for some months. 
While Mr B says he never received those letters, I cant hold Sainsburys responsible as to 
why these letters werent received and its possible this may have been due to the overseas 
postal system. Importantly here, Mr B feels Sainsburys should have communicated this by 
way of email, text, or registered letter, but that isnt Sainsburys process and details of that 
process have been evidenced  to this service. Although Mr B may not agree, its not the role 
of this service to tell Sainsburys what processes and procedures it must adopt, and I am 
satisfied that the notice to close Mr Bs account by way of formal letter was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Without trying to minimise the frustration this matter would have undoubtedly caused Mr B 
here, Sainsburys have told him he is now able to reapply for a new credit card account if he 
so wishes. While Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Sainsburys here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman