DRN-3355935
The complaint
Mr L complains that Progressive Money Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. In that decision I explained why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of my 
provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Mr L was given a loan by Progressive in October 2016. He borrowed £6,495 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 72 monthly instalments. Mr L repaid the loan, far earlier 
than planned, in February 2017.
Progressive gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed the loan. It asked 
him for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It verified what hed said by 
looking at his payslips, and copies of his bank statements. And it checked his credit 
file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had 
managed credit in the past.
Mr L was entering into a significant commitment with Progressive. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of six years. So I think it was right that 
Progressive wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Mr Ls financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the 
checks Ive described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think 
Progressives checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of Progressives checks to see 
whether it made a fair lending decision.
Progressive appears to have conducted a thorough review of Mr Ls normal income 
and expenditure by both taking Mr Ls testimony, and then corroborating that by the 
use of his payslips and bank statements. From the information it has gathered I think 
it would be reasonable to conclude that Progressive had a good understanding of 
Mr Ls likely disposable income.
 
When Mr L first asked to borrow from Progressive he asked for a smaller loan, and 
over a shorter repayment period. Progressives checks suggested that loan wouldnt 
be affordable for him. So, with Mr Ls agreement, it provided him with details of a 
larger loan, that could be used to refinance more of his other debt, and that would be 
repaid over a longer period. Mr L was happy with Progressives proposal, and the 
lender concluded that the revised loan was sustainably affordable for Mr L.
The credit check results showed that Mr L had faced some serious problems 
managing his money in the past. It showed a large number of defaulted accounts 
from 2011, although they were all shown as closed in 2013. Mr L told Progressive 
that he experienced some serious mental health problems at that time that meant he 
was unable to work. As a result he needed to enter an IVA, and so his outstanding 
debts were resolved when he exited the agreement in 2013.
I accept that Mr Ls problems had been a number of years earlier, and he told 
Progressive that his problems were now behind him. And that appeared to be the 
case from the way he was managing his more recent credit. It is true that experience 
suggests that consumers who have faced problems managing their money in the 
past, often face similar problems in the future. But given Mr Ls assurances, and the 
evidence from the credit file, I dont think those historic problems should have caused 
undue concern to Progressive.
Progressives checks did show that Mr L was making fairly significant use of credit at 
the time he applied for this loan. He had a mortgage and another secured loan  
which together required him to repay over £1,000 per month. He had also made use 
of short-term loans in the previous months, and had two active credit card accounts. 
Taken together, Mr L was spending a considerable proportion of his normal income 
servicing other credit commitments.
But Mr Ls loan, after he agreed with Progressives proposals, would be used to 
refinance all of his outstanding short-term debt. And Progressive ensured that would 
be the case by repaying those loans directly with the other lenders. So after the loan 
had been taken Mr L would only be left with the two secured loans, and two credit 
cards to repay each month. When it assessed Mr Ls disposable income Progressive 
allowed for repayments on the credit cards that were almost twice what Mr L might 
need to contractually repay.
The bank statements that Mr L provided to Progressive suggested that he was 
managing his finances relatively well. They didnt show any evidence of serious 
financial problems such as regular unpaid transactions or escalating levels of 
overdraft.
So on balance I currently think it was reasonable for Progressive to conclude, after 
deducting the amounts that he was paying to those loans he was refinancing, that 
Mr L would be able to afford the repayments on this loan in a sustainable manner. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr L, but I dont currently think 
that Progressive was wrong to give him the loan.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Progressive hasnt provided us with anything further. Mr L has provided 
some additional comments to us. Although I am only summarising here what Mr L has said, 
I want to reassure him that I have read all of his responses in their entirety.
Mr L has said how disappointed he is that my provisional decision is so different to the 
conclusions reached by our investigator, based on the same evidence. He says that the 
repayments on his two secured loans took up more than half his normal income. In addition 
to that he says he was making extensive use of other credit  taking numerous short terms 
loans and repaying two credit card balances. He says that other complaints, about the 
affordability of the credit cards have been upheld. Mr L says the loan was clearly 
unaffordable for him as he had to rely on further borrowing to meet his repayments.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered carefully what Mr L has said, I am sorry to tell him that I havent changed 
my view on his complaint. But I would like to comment further on the matters he has raised.
There is no doubt that Mr Ls finances were under some pressure at the time he asked for 
the loan. But Progressive used the loan to repay all the short-term lending that Mr L had 
outstanding. And when it looked at Mr Ls disposable income it made an allowance for the 
repayments he would need to make on his credit cards, and secured loans. Based on those 
checks, that I still think were proportionate, it reasonably concluded that Mr L would be able 
to meet his new repayments in a sustainable manner.
The checks that different lenders might undertake vary. And the results each lender receives 
from its checks might differ too, both in their timing, and the level of detail they show. So it 
isnt always helpful, or right, to draw conclusions on one complaint from the outcome of 
another. I can only assess the information that Progressive received from its proportionate 
checks, and whether that led to a fair lending decision.
I understand why Mr L is disappointed that my findings are different to those reached by our 
investigator. But either party to a complaint is entitled to ask for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint if they disagree with the investigators assessment. And the ombudsman review is 
entirely independent from that undertaken by the investigator. Here, for the reasons I have 
explained, I didnt agree with our investigators conclusions.
So on balance I think it was reasonable for Progressive to conclude, after deducting the 
amounts that he was paying to those loans he was refinancing, that Mr L would be able to 
afford the repayments on this loan in a sustainable manner. I dont think that Progressive 
was wrong to give the loan to Mr L.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Progressive Money Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman