DRN-3632265
The complaint
Miss O complains about how Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Bank of Ireland (UK) dealt 
with her loan application.
What happened
Miss O applied for a Bank of Ireland (UK) (BoI) loan on 7 April 2022 and was told there was 
a 95% chance of approval. She says she received an e-mail telling her the money would be 
in her account shortly and so instructed builders to start work on her home. Miss O says she 
was then told the application had been refused. She would like compensation for the distress 
she was caused and for the hard search to be removed from her credit file.
BoI says Miss O applied for a loan for £25,000 and says it told Miss O on 7 April 2022 that 
the application was subject to further checks. It says it carried out those further checks and 
decided to reject the loan application. BoI says it will not remove the credit search which was 
correctly carried out.
Miss O brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought BoI made clear in its email to Miss O on 7 April 2022 that the application was subject 
to further checks. And that BoI was entitled to reject the application. The investigator thought 
a credit search was correctly carried out and explained our role was not to tell a business 
how it operates.
Miss O doesnt accept that view and says other people have had loans rejected in this way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at the information Miss O would have seen and the e-mail BoI sent 
her after the loan application. I can see Miss O says she was told there was a 95% chance 
she would be accepted for a loan. So, Im satisfied that even before the application, it was 
made clear there was no guarantee any application would be accepted and that a full 
application would need to be made. I can also see that on 7 April 2022 BoI told Miss O that 
the application would be subject to further checks. So, I am again satisfied that no guarantee 
was made that Miss Os application would be approved.
Im satisfied that BoI made clear throughout the process that further checks would be carried 
out and that it was entitled, when those checks were completed, to reject the loan 
application. It follows that I dont think BoI made a mistake or acted unfairly. I appreciate 
Miss O questions how BoI has advertised the loan and communicated with her. I have made 
clear that at no stage was Miss O told she was guaranteed to be approved for the loan and 
its not our role to tell BoI how it advertises its loans.
Im also satisfied that BoI was entitled to carry out a search on Miss Os credit file and that it 
was inevitable for a loan of this size, that such a search would be carried out. I cant fairly 
ask BoI to remove the search as it accurately reflects what took place which is the purpose 
of a credit file.
I appreciate Miss O says other people have experienced similar issues, but I can only 
consider Miss Os complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman