DRN-1950654
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays Bank UK plc trading as Barclaycard has problems with its 
website which prevented her from sending and receiving certain electronic communications. 
Mrs J is represented by Mr R.
What happened
Mrs J has a credit card account with Barclaycard. She uses its online messaging service to 
send and receive electronic messages. She says shes experienced several problems when 
using Barclaycards website. These problems include not being able to access her online 
statements; not getting email alerts to tell her when a payment is due; and not being able to 
send electronic messages to Barclaycard because it restricts certain characters such as the 
£ sign.
She complained to Barclaycard. It investigated her complaint. It acknowledged it had an 
ongoing problem with online access to statements. But it says the problem is now fixed. It 
apologised to Mrs J and offered to pay her £50 by way of compensation.
Barclaycard says that Mrs J was registered to receive email alerts. These alerts would tell 
her when a statement was ready to view and when a payment was due. It said she only gets 
these alerts when a statement is sent to her. It said it had sent her all of the alerts it was 
required to send her. But it acknowledged it may not have explained this fully to her. It said it 
had paid her a total of £75 by way of compensation for this.
Barclaycard said there were no issues with its electronic messaging service. It said its 
website made clear that only certain letters, number and characters could be used. It said 
the £ sign could be used. So, it didnt uphold this part of Mrs Js complaint. 
Mrs J didnt agree and so she referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaints. He said he couldnt tell Barclaycard it had to 
changes its systems. But he said he had looked at Barclaycards website and from what he 
could see there was a message explaining the letters, numbers and characters that could be 
used. He said the £ sign was a permitted character.  
Our investigator also considered the other parts of the complaint Mrs J had raised. He said 
thered been an issue with the statements which had caused inconvenience for Mrs J. But he 
said the transactions could still be viewed online and Barclaycard had offered £50 by way of 
compensation. He thought this was fair and reasonable. 
He also said he was satisfied that email alerts had been sent to Mrs J. Barclaycard had paid 
£75 by way of compensation for not giving Mrs J a clearer explanation of how the 
arrangements worked. He also thought this was fair and reasonable. So, he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Because Mrs J disagreed with what our investigator said the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J has raised several issues in relation to different types of electronic communication. So, 
for purposes of clarity, Ill deal with each separately.
Statements
It is the case that Barclaycard has acknowledged there was a problem with viewing 
statements online. It says this problem has been fixed. Its not clear when the problem was 
fixed, but I can see that by April 2020 statements could be viewed online. Barclaycard has 
offered to pay Mrs J £50 by way of compensation for the inconvenience she experienced.
As our investigator said, we take individual circumstances into account when considering 
whether an offer of compensation is fair and reasonable. Mrs J raised the problem in 
December 2019. A payment was due by the end of that month.
Although statements werent accessible online Mrs J could still view a list of transactions 
online. And, she was sent an email five days before the payment due date which told her 
how much she had to pay. The statements do set out other important information  which 
Mrs J wouldnt have been able to view. But I dont think that wouldve stopped her from being 
able to check her transactions. And, I dont think it wouldve prevented her from making the 
payment by the due date. 
So, having considered the inconvenience she experienced, I agree with our investigator that 
the offer of £50 is fair and reasonable.
Email alerts
Mrs J says she didnt get an alert until five days before her payment was due and this was 
much later than she wouldve expected. Barclaycard has explained that there were two 
different alerts set up on Mrs Js account. 
She got an alert when her statement was available, and she got an alert five days before the 
payment was due. Barclaycard has checked the alerts that were sent, and it says that she 
got an alert on 29 November to tell her the November statement was ready to view, and she 
then got an alert 5 days before the due date. The due date was 27 December 2019.
I can understand why Mrs J complained about this arrangement. When she got the 
statement alert, as mentioned above, she wouldnt have been able to view the statement. 
So, she wouldnt have been able to see what the payment due date or the payment amount 
was. These pieces of information are available on the statement. 
When the payment alert was received Mrs J was told how much she had to pay and when it 
had to be paid. And, although this alert was only received five days before the due date, I 
can see that Mrs J was able to make the payment on time. 
Barclaycard has credited a total of £75 to her account by way of compensation for not having 
provided a clear explanation of how the alert system worked. 
Having thought about how the alerts worked, Im satisfied they were sent to Mrs J in line with 
what had been agreed. And, although she was only alerted to the amount of the payment five days before the payment due date, she was able to make the payment on time. So, on 
balance, I think £75 by way of compensation for not having provided a clearer explanation to 
Mrs J is fair and reasonable.
Sending electronic messages
Mrs J says that she cant send electronic messages to Barclaycard because its messaging 
system is too restrictive. She also says that despite what it says on the website she cant use 
the £ sign in an electronic message.
The website says the following:
We can accept all letters and numbers, carriage return, plus ( ) = ? , . ; : - & !   £ % 
 @ _ / +
Mrs J says that this is not correct. She says that when she uses the £ sign the message is 
rejected. She says that messages are rejected for no apparent reason and there must be an 
underlying problem with the messaging system.
I asked Barclaycard to send me evidence that the £ could be used in messages without the 
message being rejected. It has been able to do that. Its also provided screenshots showing 
that when any or all of the accepted characters (as set out on its website) is used, the 
message is not rejected. When characters not on this list such as * [  or { are used then the 
character which is unacceptable is highlighted in red and the message cannot be sent until 
that character is removed.
So, whilst I dont doubt that Mrs J has been having issues when shes tried to send 
messages to Barclaycard, Im unable to say that this is because of an underlying problem 
with Barclaycards messaging system. 
The message on the screen which states the numbers, letters and characters which can be 
used is clear. And, I dont think it unduly restricts the type of messages that can be sent 
using the online messaging system.
So, having considered everything here, I think that Barclaycard has acted fairly and 
reasonably, and I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK plc 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman