DRN-3673456
The complaint
Miss B and Mr L have complained about QIC Europe Ltd turning down their claim under their 
home insurance policy for storm damage to their home and garden fence. 
The claim was handled by QICs claim handling agent, who Ill refer to as TC. 
What happened
Miss B and Mr L submitted a claim under their home insurance policy after their roof and 
fence were damaged during storm Eunice. TC sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. 
Having done so he turned down the claim for the roof on the basis the predominant cause of 
the damage was as result of:
the mortar holding the ridge tiles in place deteriorating and allowing them to de-bond 
from the roof; 
the mortar on the chimney deteriorating and causing the lead flashing to become 
loose; and
the other tiles slipping from their position due to the deterioration of their fixings.
He went on to suggest that all the wind during the storm had done was highlight pre-existing 
problems. 
Miss B and Mr L complained to TC. They quickly considered their complaint and said they 
were satisfied the decision made by the surveyor was correct. They added that the damage 
to the fence at Miss B and Mr Ls home wasnt covered either, because their policy makes it 
clear damage to fences is only covered if their home has been damaged by the same cause. 
By this they meant that, whilst the fence had been damaged by a storm, Miss B and Mr Ls 
home hadnt and therefore the damage to the fence wasnt covered. 
Miss B and Mr L asked us to consider their complaint. They said they accepted the lead 
flashing had become loose due to the mortar on the chimney deteriorating, but they did not 
think TC were right to turn down the rest of their claim. 
One of our investigators considered Miss B and Mr Ls complaint. He said that TC were 
wrong to turn down their claim for the dislodged tiles and that QIC should pay Miss B and Mr 
L what it had cost them to get the damage repaired. He also said QIC should pay Miss B and 
Mr L the cost of repairing the fence. 
TC on behalf of QIC havent accepted the investigators view and have asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. Theyve said it can be seen from the photographs provided that the 
ridge tiles have de-bonded and that this is evidenced by the fact the remaining ridge tiles 
were left in place. They think if the damage to the tiles that came off was as a result of wind 
only, all of the ridge tiles would have come off. Theyve added with regards to the damage to 
the fence that the fact the central posts were left standing and the posts at the ends were 
loose shows the damage had happened gradually as was just highlighted by the wind. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that QIC should pay Miss B and Mr Ls claim 
for the cost of repairing the damage to the roof as result of the tiles that came off and the 
cost of repairing their fence. 
Miss B and Mr Ls policy covers damage to their home and fences caused by storm. And the 
fact the damage theyve claimed for happened during a storm is not in dispute. So, provided 
the storm was the dominant and effective cause of the damage, the cost of repairing the 
damage would be covered by their policy. 
Ive noted TCs comments, but I am not persuaded wear and tear, ie the de-bonding of the 
ridge tiles and the other tiles becoming loose due to the deterioration of their fixings was the 
dominant and effective cause of the damage to the roof. The wind speeds at the time the 
damage happened were extreme and I think all the tiles would have stayed in place but for 
these winds. I accept the mortar may not have been in particularly good condition under 
some of the ridge tiles and some of the fixings under the other tiles had deteriorated. But  
whilst I accept this was a contributory factor - I dont think it was the main cause of the 
damage. I think the main cause was the high winds during storm Eunice and this means the 
damage is covered by Miss B and Mr Ls policy. 
I think its arguable the storm was the dominant and effective cause of the damage to the 
lead flashing by the chimney on Miss B and Mr Ls home, as it does look like it has been 
ripped out by strong winds. But I also think it is possible this had already happened in less 
severe winds. I say this because of the clear lack of mortar in the joints the flashing was 
meant to be attached to. And, as Miss B and Mr L have accepted this damage isnt covered 
by their policy, Ive not considered this aspect further and I am not going to make QIC pay 
anything towards the cost of repairing this damage. 
As I think the damage to the roof caused by the tiles coming off was caused by a storm, it 
follows that, if the damage to the fence was also caused by the same storm, it is also 
covered. And I think it was. Im not at all persuaded by TCs very late argument about the 
state of the two end posts. The winds were extreme and which posts and panels are 
damaged in such extreme conditions will depend on a number of factors, including the wind 
direction and the position of the posts. And  even if some of the fence posts werent in as 
good a condition as others, I still think theyd have been able to withstand normal wind 
speeds. So, again, I think the dominant and effective cause of the damage to the fence was 
the wind during storm Eunice. And this means I think QIC should pay the cost of repairing 
Miss B and Mr Ls fence as well.    
There is a clause in Miss B and Mr Ls policy requiring them to maintain their home in a good 
state of repair. But, whilst their roof was fairly worn and had some moss growing on it, I think 
it was as could be expected for a roof of that age and I do not think there is sufficient 
evidence to say Miss B and Mr L realised there were issues with the tiles and failed to take 
any action, ie there was no obvious need that the roof needed maintenance to the naked eye 
of someone that wasnt an expert. And I think the same can be said of their fence. So, for the 
sake of completeness, I should say I dont think they breached the maintenance condition in 
the policy. 
Putting things right
It looks like Miss B and Mr L have paid for the repairs to the areas of their roof damaged by the tiles falling and for the repairs to their fence. So, subject to them providing evidence to 
demonstrate this, I think QIC should reimburse what they paid, less any applicable policy 
excess or excesses. I notice the invoice Miss B and Mr L have provided to us for the repairs 
to the roof includes repairing the flashing to the chimney. So, the amount this cost will need 
to be established and knocked off. I also think QIC should pay interest on the amounts due 
to Miss B and Mr L at eight percent per annum simple from the date they paid for the repairs 
to the date they reimburse the amounts theyve paid. This is because theyve been without 
these funds and should receive interest to compensate them for this. 
Ive decided not to award anything for the distress and inconvenience Miss B and Mr L 
experienced as a result of having their claim wrongly turned down. This is because, whilst 
the decision taken by TC on behalf of QIC was wrong, they did make it fairly quickly and at 
least explained to Miss B and Mr L why they were turning their claim down. So, whilst TC got 
it wrong, I think QIC having to reimburse what Miss B and Mr L have paid for the damage I 
think is covered for their policy, plus interest, is adequate compensation and fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss B and Mr Ls complaint against QIC Europe Ltd and 
require them to reimburse what they paid to have their roof repaired after tiles came off and 
what they paid to have their fence repaired, subject to them providing evidence to show what 
they paid for these things, less any applicable policy excess or excesses. QIC Europe Ltd 
should also add interest to the amounts due to Miss B and Mr L at eight percent from the 
date Miss B and Mr L made the payments to the date they reimburse them1. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 QIC Europe Ltd must tell Miss B and Mr L if they have made a deduction for income tax. 
And, they have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax deduction 
certificate for Miss B and Mr L if asked to do so. This will allow Miss B and Mr L to reclaim 
the tax from His Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.