The complaint
Miss J says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted irresponsibly 
when it provided loans to her.
What happened 
Sunny gave Miss J 25 loans between December 2018 and July 2019. Not all the loans are 
repaid yet. 
Heres a table showing loan details for the first ten loans:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidFortnightly 
Instalments*Amount Highest*Repayment
1 11/12/2018 16/12/2018 12£150.00 £70.95
2 16/12/2018 01/01/2019 12£200.00 £96.63
3 19/12/2018 21/01/2019 12£150.00 £167.61
4 23/12/2018 03/01/2019 12£150.00 £215.91
5 30/12/2018 21/01/2019 12£150.00 £261.85
6 01/01/2019 21/01/2019 12£250.00 £302.58
7 03/01/2019 21/01/2019 12£250.00 £341.64
8 19/03/2019 21/03/2019 12£50.00 £22.56
9 20/03/2019 21/03/2019 12£50.00 £45.05
10 20/03/2019 25/03/2019 12£150.00 £112.05
*approximate combined repayments where loans overlap
DRN-1826816Miss J complained that Sunny provided her with loans that she couldnt afford to repay in a 
sustainable way. She told us that she became trapped in a debt spiral when she had to 
borrow further loans to make the repayments on her existing loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel that hed seen enough to say it was unfair that Sunny had 
provided loans 1 - 4 to Miss J. But he thought that loan 5 onwards shouldnt have been 
provided  and he explained how hed come to this view. 
Our adjudicator also gave some detailed instructions about the way he thought Sunny 
should settle the complaint. 
Sunny didnt agree with everything in our adjudicators view letter  but it said that after 
reviewing this complaint it now believed it wouldve been prudent to have done things 
differently after Miss Js sixteenth loan. And Sunny offered to uphold the complaint from 
loan 16 onwards. Sunny sent details showing how it had recalculated the loan balances  
and as this wouldve left Miss J still owing money Sunny said it would also write off her 
outstanding balance as a gesture of goodwill so that Miss J would owe Sunny nothing 
further. 
We passed this information on to Miss J. The offer falls short of our adjudicators 
recommended settlement and Miss J hasnt accepted Sunnys settlement proposals. So her 
complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Miss J could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
Ive looked at what it appears Miss J told Sunny about her financial circumstances and the 
repayment amounts she had to make for loans 1  4. Taking this information into account, 
and bearing in mind that this was early on in her lending relationship with Sunny, I dont think 
it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Miss J for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing these loans. 
These loans all looked affordable for Miss J, based on what shed said to Sunny about her 
finances - even taking into account the combined monthly repayments. So I agree with our 
adjudicator that there isnt enough information for me to be able to say that Sunny shouldnt 
have lent Miss J any of the first four loans. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 5. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Miss Js borrowing 
history that she was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time she asked for loan 5, Miss J already had three other 
outstanding short term loans with Sunny  and now she was asking for further borrowing. 
Loan 5 was for the same amount that Miss J had borrowed when she first started borrowing 
from Sunny. And this was extra borrowing on top of loans 2, 3 and 4 which she was still 
paying for. 
This all suggests to me that Miss J was finding it hard to get on top of her money problems 
and her financial difficulties were likely ongoing. 
I think that Sunny shouldve realised that Miss Js borrowing record painted a picture of 
someone struggling with debt. And despite what shed told Sunny about her finances, it 
showed that Miss J was having serious problems managing her money. So Sunny shouldve 
seen that the indications were that loan 5  and any further lending, wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Miss J. 
And it seems this is borne out by what followed. Although Miss J repaid loans 2 and 3 within 
a few days of taking loan 5, Sunny couldnt have known shed do that. Bearing in mind that 
she took loan 6 the same day that she repaid loan 2, and loan 7 the same day that she repaid loan 4, its clear that she wasnt repaying these loans in a way that was sustainably 
affordable for her.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss J, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Js case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point 
was reached by loan 16. I say this because:
Miss J wasnt managing to repay her loans sustainably - she had taken out 16 loans 
from Sunny over 5 months or so and by now Sunny could see that shed already 
established a clear pattern of paying outstanding loans early and quickly borrowing 
again. And now she was asking to borrow again. So by loan 16 it looked like Miss J 
probably wasnt using the loans for their intended purpose 
 
the loan amounts went up and down  but loan 16 was Miss Js biggest loan so far 
and more than three times as much as loan 1. This record of borrowing doesnt 
suggest that she was asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan. 
Rather, I think this indicated that overall her money problems were ongoing and the 
signs were that she was increasingly struggling with debt.  
 
It appears that Sunny now agrees that the lending from loan 16 onwards was unsustainable 
for Miss J. So I don't think I need say much more about this, except that I think that Miss J 
lost out when Sunny provided loan 16 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Js indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time 
 
the number of loans Miss J borrowed was likely to impact adversely on her ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept Miss J in the market for high-cost loans. By 
loan 16 any further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to Miss Js credit rating. 
 
So overall, Im upholding Miss Js complaint about loan 5 onwards.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do  
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss J towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded. 
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss J which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding
loans and treat any repayments made by Miss J as though they had been
repayments of the principal. If this results in Miss J having made overpayments then
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments,
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is
settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to
step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B"
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in
a surplus then that surplus should be paid to Miss J. However if there is still an
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan
with Miss J.
E. Remove all adverse entries from Miss Js credit file for loans 5 - 15.
F. The overall pattern of Miss Js borrowing by loan 16 means any information recorded
about this loan and all the loans that followed is adverse, so Sunny should remove
these loans entirely from Miss Js credit file. There is no need to remove any
outstanding loan from Miss Js credit file until it is repaid, but Sunny should still
remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Js complaint about loans 5 - 25. 
Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out 
above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman