DRN-3900271
Complaint
Mrs A has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
George Banco provided Mrs A with a guarantor loan for £4,000.00 in July 2018. This loan 
had an APR of 61.08% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £7,714.80, including interest, fees and charges of £3,714.80, was due to be repaid 
in 36 monthly instalments of just under £215. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs As complaint and she thought George Banco 
provided Mrs As loan in circumstances where it ought to have realised it was unaffordable. 
So she thought that Mrs As complaint should be upheld. George Banco disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider the case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs As complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
George Banco needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mrs A could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that George Banco may also 
have been able to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in 
any way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information George Banco has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mrs A had previously had 
significant difficulties repaying credit. Furthermore, George Bancos own checks showed 
that, at best, the payments to this loan were taking Mrs A right towards the margin of her 
income. And this was with the use of estimated expenditure in circumstances where Mrs As 
previous difficulties with credit suggested she fell outside the profile of the average borrower.
Ive also seen what George Banco has said about Mrs A making her payments before the 
pandemic and that this means the loan was affordable at the outset. However, just because 
payments were being made this doesnt mean that Mrs A wasnt doing so without borrowing 
further or without suffering adverse consequences. And thats what George Banco needed to 
establish that Mrs A would be able to do before lending to her. 
Ive also considered what George Banco has said about this being a consolidation loan. 
However, its unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more crucially 
how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was going to improve Mrs As 
outgoings going forward. So Im not persuaded that this means Mrs As complaint shouldnt 
be upheld either.
 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Mrs A has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time. And while its possible Mrs As 
difficulties reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of 
these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible 
arguments from George Banco, Ive been persuaded to accept Mrs As version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs As existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without borrowing further or 
suffering significant adverse consequences. And Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown George Banco that it shouldnt 
have provided this loan to Mrs A. As George Banco provided Mrs A with this loan, 
notwithstanding this, Im satisfied that it didnt act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs A ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan she shouldnt have 
been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs A lost out because of what George Banco did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fai compensation  what George Banco needs to do to put things right for Mrs A
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that George Banco should put things right for 
Mrs A by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs A actually paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Mrs A to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mrs As credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs As complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman