DRN-2772561
The complaint
Miss B complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) acted 
irresponsibly by granting her a loan that was unaffordable for her. 
What happened
In October 2017, Miss B took out a loan with Madison for £2,000. It was to be paid back over 
18 months in payments of £217.02 per month. 
Miss B later complained that the loan was unaffordable for her. She said the interest was 
excessive and the original instalment amounts were too high.
Madison said it had asked Miss B a number of questions about her income and expenditure, 
personal circumstances and employment details when she applied for the loan. It also used 
reasonable average figures for income and expenditure and information from Miss Bs 
credit file. It said all the loan details (including the interest charge) were explained to Miss B 
and she was asked if the loan was affordable during the application process. Madison said it 
was satisfied it had acted correctly in approving Miss Bs loan application.
Miss B remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Miss Bs concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She didnt 
think Madison had lent to Miss B irresponsibly. She thought Madison should have 
questioned the length of time Miss B had declared she was employed, as the application 
said 0 months. But after requesting further information from Miss B, our investigator was 
satisfied she was in receipt of a regular income. She acknowledged Madison hadnt 
requested bank statements from Miss B, but she didnt think reasonable and proportionate 
checks meant it needed to do so.
 
Miss B disagreed with our investigators opinion. She thought our investigator should have 
considered information showing on her bank statements which included gambling and loans 
she had taken out. She said checks would also have shown she was not in a stable job. So, 
her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Madison to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss B could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Madison to think only about 
the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Miss B undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for her.
  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Madison gathered information from Miss B before it agreed the loan and also checked her 
credit file. On her application Miss B gave her monthly income as £1,250. She said shed 
worked for her employer for 0 months and I think this should have prompted Madison to 
question this. But Miss B has told us she was working for this particular employer since May 
2017, which was around five months before she took out the loan. In a telephone 
conversation that took place just before Miss B signed the loan agreement, she told Madison 
that she wasnt aware of any changes in the future that would make the monthly instalments 
unaffordable for her. So, I dont think Madison would have had reason to think that Miss Bs 
employment wasnt stable, even if it had asked her further questions about the duration of 
her employment. 
While Madison doesnt appear to have asked for wage slips to verify Miss Bs income, I think 
its reasonable for it to have relied on the information she gave it. And in any event, 
information from the bank statement Miss B has sent us suggests she was earning a similar 
amount to what shed declared on the application.
The expenses (rent, council tax, utilities, food, card and loan payments and insurance) listed 
on Miss Bs application added up to £675. This left her with a disposable income of £575. 
This information suggested the monthly repayments of £217.02 were affordable for Miss B.
The loan had a high interest rate of 169.9% APR, which meant Miss B was required to pay 
back considerably more than she borrowed over the 18 month term. The total amount to be 
repaid (over 18 months) was £3,906.36. So, I think it was reasonable that Madison would 
want to gather, and independently check further information about Miss Bs circumstances 
before it agreed to lend to her. It did this by checking her credit file.
 
The credit file showed that Miss B had two loans and a credit card. It suggested Miss Bs 
existing credit commitments were slightly higher than shed stated on her application. But the 
repayments to Madison still appeared to be affordable, using the information on the credit 
file. Miss B had also indicated the purpose of her loan with Madison was for consolidating 
debt, so I think its reasonable to have expected that the loan would have reduced her debt 
with other lenders. There was also nothing else on the credit file Madison reviewed that I 
think should have given it cause for concern. There were no recent defaults, missed 
payments or county court judgments, for example. Miss B has sent us a credit report from 
August 2017 which shows a default, but this doesnt appear on the credit file report Madison 
reviewed when it granted her the loan in October 2017.
 
I can see from the bank statements Miss B has sent us that shed taken out some additional 
borrowing with other lenders, that didnt appear on her credit file. I can also see several 
gambling transactions. But Madison could only make its decision based on information it had 
available at the time. And I dont think proportionate checks would have extended to 
Madison asking Miss B to provide her bank statements.
 
Aside from neglecting to question Miss Bs employment duration, I think Madisons checks 
were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. And they showed the loan was 
affordable. 
Miss B is also unhappy about the interest charged on the loan. I appreciate the amount   
Miss B was asked to pay back is significantly higher than what she borrowed and making the 
payments has been difficult. But the credit agreement makes no attempt to disguise how 
costly the loan is. It clearly sets out the terms of the loan, including the total amount to be 
repaid. As Miss B accepted these terms and the payments appeared to be affordable, based on the information it had at the time, I cant say Madison acted unfairly when it provided the 
loan.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss B. But I hope shell understand the reasons 
for my decision and shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
Although Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint, Id like to remind Madison of its duty to treat 
her positively and sympathetically if she is still having difficulty repaying the loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman