DRN-3758354
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds 
refusal to provide cover under the legal expenses section of their household insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In 2015 Mrs B made an application to the employment tribunal against her former employer 
for discrimination and equal pay. She did not have cover with DAS at the time and I 
understand she paid for her own representation. Mrs B says she was advised that her 
chances of her claim succeeding were low based on the evidence she had at that time and 
she was advised to withdraw her claim. 
Mrs B reissued her claim for equal pay in 2018 and in October 2021 made a claim under her 
policy with DAS for cover. In December 2018, her tribunal claim was struck out in part and a 
deposit order made as the Judge didnt think the remaining part of her claim had reasonable 
prospects of success. DAS obtained a legal assessment from one of its panel solicitors on 
Mrs Bs chances of succeeding in appealing the tribunals decision and the chances of 
succeeding in the remaining part of her equal pay claim. DASs panel solicitors provided an 
opinion in February 2019 that there was no chance of appealing the striking out of the claim 
and the deposit order and that the remaining part of her equal pay claim was unlikely to 
succeed. DAS therefore rejected the claim, as it said it is a pre-requisite of cover that a claim 
have reasonable prospects of success (i.e. a more than 51% chance of succeeding). 
I understand Mrs B continued her tribunal claim and arranged legal representation herself. 
The remaining part of the claim was struck out by the Employment Tribunal in November 
2020 and permission to appeal to the Court of Appeal was refused in April 2021. 
In 2021, Mrs B asked DAS to look into this claim again to help with an appeal. She says she 
specifically wanted cover for her chosen solicitors to review her claim and provide a written 
opinion on her options. DAS re-opened the claim file and asked for more information, so it 
could review the matter. Having done so, DAS concluded again that any further action was 
not likely to succeed, and it refused to provide any cover under the policy for this claim.  It  
however told Mrs B that if she could get the tribunal to reverse its decision it would 
reconsider the matter. 
Mrs B is very unhappy with this and the time taken by DAS to consider the matter.  DAS 
apologised for the delay in telling Mrs B its decision on her claim and offered £75, and later a 
further £150, compensation for this. 
Mrs B made another claim to DAS in 2021, for cover for employment tribunal proceedings 
against the same former employer for unfair dismissal, harassment and discrimination, which 
was related to the previous employment tribunal claims. Mrs B said the court was allowing 
this as a new claim. 
DAS said it would not cover the unfair dismissal aspects (as she was dismissed with effect 
from February 2021 and there was no policy in place at that time) but would consider the 
other matters.  DAS obtained counsels opinion. While it had said it would not cover the  
unfair dismissal part of the claim, counsel did in fact assess this as well as Mrs Bs possible 
claims for wrongful dismissal, discrimination, harassment and victimisation in November 
2021. Counsel concluded that none of the claims had more than 51% chance of success, 
which is what is required for cover under the policy. DAS therefore refused cover for any part 
of this claim. 
Mrs B was very unhappy with this. She says DASs assessment of the claim was wrong, as 
she was able to proceed and this claim was settled by way of judicial mediation. As she had 
no assistance from DAS, she had to employ her own barrister to help her and is out of 
pocket as a result. 
DAS did not agree that the fact she might have been able to continue the claim and settle it 
means Mrs B had sufficient prospects of success for there to be cover under the policy. 
However, it accepted it did not give Mrs B an answer to this claim as quickly as it should. It 
accepted it should have been able to assess this claim by 4 August 2021 and offered £150 
compensation for this. The total compensation offered by DAS in relation to both claims was 
therefore £375.
Mrs B remains unhappy with the service provided by DAS and refusal of her claims and so 
brought her complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think that DAS had acted unfairly 
in refusing the two claims but agreed it could have dealt with them both more quickly than it 
had. The Investigator thought the £375 compensation already offered for this was 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mrs B does not accept the Investigators assessment. I have considered everything she has 
said but have summarised her main points below: 
She wanted cover for her chosen solicitors to provide written assessments of her 
claims, not for DAS to assess them. 
DAS chose the panel solicitors that assessed the matter and they always say there 
are no prospects of success. The Investigator said DAS was entitled to rely on the 
opinion because it was properly written and reasoned. This simply allows and 
insurer to refuse cover without the legal opinion being challenged and cannot be fair. 
As the client, she should be entitled to rely on an opinion from lawyers of her own 
choosing and she asked for this 
She did have her own solicitors that thought her claim for unfair dismissal and 
harassment was very strong and offered to provide an opinion on prospects but it 
was ignored by DAS. She did therefore provide an alternative opinion in support of 
her claim four months before DAS obtained the negative opinion. 
With regard to the equal pay claim, the original opinion relied on was inadequate. 
The solicitor appointed had no experience of litigation at Court of Appeal level. 
Her chosen solicitor offered to review and advise on possible ways to continue her 
claim and would not have done so if this were impossible. 
The compensation offered is insulting, given the prolonged distress caused to her 
and her family. In addition, she incurred expenses paying her own legal 
representation when this should have been provided under the policy. 
DASs failure to provide her with a proper and fair service has jeopardized her legal 
position and her human right to legal equality.
Dr B wants compensation to the value of her lost legal claims (which she puts at 
£355,000). She says there is a pattern of refusing cover and never really providing 
any support. She says it delayed consideration until her claims were no longer viable.As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs policy provides cover for various legal disputes, including employment issues. It is a 
pre-requisite of any cover under the policy however that there be reasonable prospects of 
any legal dispute succeeding. The policy states: 
We will cover the insured incidents in this section as long asfor civil claims it is 
always more likely that not that you or your family will recover damages (or obtain 
any other legal remedy which we have agreed to) or make a successful defence.
Virtually all legal expenses policies have similar requirements. We dont think this is unfair: a 
legal expenses insurer cant really be expected to fund expensive litigation whose prospects 
of success are not good.
It is a principle of insurance law that it is for the claimant to establish, on the balance of
probabilities, that they have a valid claim under a policy. So this would in this case include 
establishing that it has reasonable prospects of success. (We would consider this to be a 
more than 51% chance.) However, it is usual in legal expenses policies for the insurer to 
appoint panel solicitors to assess the prospects of a legal claim (in cases where its in-house 
staff are unable to do so) at its own cost, rather than insist on policyholders doing so at the 
outset of a case.
Mrs B says she wanted cover for her own solicitors to assess her claims but DAS did not 
have to pay her solicitors to do that assessment. The policy states that the insured can 
choose their own representative only if it is agreed that court proceedings can start and it is 
necessary to be represented in such proceedings. But that is also only after it has been 
established that there is a valid claim. In this instance it has not been established that there 
is a valid claim under the policy. 
Mrs B has also said that as long as the panel firms provide a written assessment it cannot be 
challenged and this is unfair. I do not agree. Mrs B can challenge any legal assessment 
provided by the panel firms but to be persuasive any such challenge would need to be from 
another suitably qualified solicitor or barrister and would need to set out why they think the 
claim has prospects of success. 
It isnt for me to evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the
insurer has acted fairly. So long as it is acting on legal advice from suitably qualified
lawyers, we wont generally question its reliance on that advice, unless we think the advice
was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes, or there is other persuasive evidence 
that it is incorrect. For the avoidance of doubt, Ive seen nothing in this case to justify such a 
conclusion. I will address each claim separately.
Overturning refusal of leave to appeal
Mrs B says the legal opinion obtained by DAS regarding the appeal was from a lawyer not 
experienced in litigation at that level. I do not agree that there was anything obviously unreasonable in the appointment of the panel solicitors or counsel. I am satisfied they were 
each suitably qualified to assess the merits of this matter. 
The solicitors that advised in 2019 said any application to have leave to appeal was 
hopeless and the remaining equal pay claim had little prospects of success. I note the 
advice said it would take a remarkable set of circumstances for a merits assessment to 
conclude that the threshold for legal expenses insurance cover has been passed when an 
experienced Employment Tribunal judge had determined after full argument with both sides 
being represented by counsel that the claim had little reasonable prospects of success.
DAS reconsidered the matter in 2021 and said again that there were no prospects to pursue 
the equal pay claim, given it had been struck out. 
Mrs B has said her solicitors were prepared to assess her options regarding the equal pay 
claim and would not have done so, if there was no action she could take. I do not agree that 
the fact solicitors were prepared to assess her legal options amounts to an assessment that 
she has reasonable prospects of succeeding in the claim. 
Mrs Bs equal pay claim had been struck out and leave to appeal refused. I note that the 
Court of Appeal order made on 15 April 2021, in which Ms Bs application for permission to 
appeal the employment tribunal order which dismissed her appeal says I have concluded 
that the appeal has no real prospect of success and there is no compelling reason for it to be 
heard 
Given this, and the absence of any other expert legal opinion that states she has reasonable 
prospects of succeeding in any further action in this matter, I am not persuaded that it was 
unreasonable of DAS to rely on the assessments it received in 2019 and 2021 on the merits 
of this matter. And it isnt required to fund further opinions just because Mrs B disagrees. 
Other employment matters
DAS obtained an opinion from counsel in November 2021. This was 31 pages long and well-
reasoned. It concluded that Mrs B did not have reasonable prospects in any of the other 
possible claims she wanted to make (including unfair dismissal, victimisation and 
harassment). 
Mrs B says she was advised she had a strong case but I have not seen anything from any 
other solicitors or counsel to state that her claims had reasonable prospects of success as 
required by the policy.
Mrs B also says that the claim was settled which also means that DASs legal advice was 
wrong. I am not persuaded by this. I have not seen any information about the terms of the 
settlement but even if she received a payment from her former employer, parties to litigation 
may agree to settle for many reasons. The fact a case is settled, does not automatically 
mean it would have had a more than 51% chance of succeeding if it the case had gone to 
trial. This is the threshold required by the policy. And it doesnt mean there would be no 
chance of succeeding at all but for there to be cover under the policy it has to be more likely 
than not that the case would succeed.  
And in the absence of any other expert legal opinion, I am satisfied that DAS was entitled to 
refuse cover for this claim as well claim. 
DelaysGiven the legal opinions on Mrs Bs chances of succeeding in any of her employment claims, 
I am not persuaded that she lost any opportunity to pursue any of her legal claims as a result 
of anything done wrong by DAS. DASs panel solicitors and counsel assessed the matters 
and provided reasoned opinions as to why they did not think the claims had reasonable 
prospects. Mrs B has objected to the assessments but I have not seen any convincing 
reason why they should in effect be disregarded. 
However, DAS did take too long to assess these two claims. I do not think there is any 
evidence that the delays meant Mrs Bs legal position was affected but I can understand that 
it would have caused her some frustration and inconvenience. The first claim took from 
October 2018 to February 2019. The second claim was initially raised in early 2021 but this 
was at first made to another insurer who referred it to DAS. I can see that it would have 
taken some time to assess the claim, given the extended history of the matter. It also would 
have taken time for counsel to consider the matter. Overall, I agree that it would have been 
reasonable for DAS to have completed its assessment by August 2021 but it took until 
November 2021. Having considered everything, I consider the total compensation already 
offered of £375 to be reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B 
by these delays. If any part of that compensation has not already been paid, Id ask DAS to 
now pay that to Mrs B.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman