DRN-3425805
The complaint
Miss M and Ms R complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to 
refund them for a transaction they said they hadnt made. 
What happened
On 24 June 2020, an online payment was made from Miss M and her mother Ms Rs joint 
account with Halifax. It was for an item from a retailer abroad for the equivalent of £99.50, 
and was made using Ms Rs card, and Miss Ms details. Although Miss M and Ms R normally 
live in different places, they were then living together at Miss Ms address because of the 
covid lockdown.
On 20 August, Miss M and Ms R contacted Halifax and said that they hadnt made the 
£99.50 payment. Halifax provided a temporary refund while it investigated with the merchant, 
using the chargeback process. But the merchant defended the chargeback by providing Miss 
Ms name, address, email address, and the IP address (an internet identifier) for the 
purchase. So Halifax re-debited the £99.50 on 28 October.
On 17 November, Miss M and Ms R complained about the outcome and about Halifaxs 
service. Halifax replied on 14 December, explaining that the merchant had defended the 
case and what it had provided as evidence. It suggested contacting the merchant direct to 
pursue a refund. Halifax paid Miss M and Ms R £30 for service issues.
Miss M and Ms R questioned the IP address which the merchant had provided, saying it 
didnt match the IP address on Miss Ms devices, or her geographical location. And they 
raised concerns because the payment had used Ms Rs card but Miss Ms details  and said 
Halifax shouldnt have let it through.  Nor had the merchant provided shipping information to 
show where the item purchased went to.
But in Halifaxs final response letter on 30 December, it said that geographical locations of 
an IP address may not always be accurate  but it had matched the IP address provided by 
the company with consistent logons from Miss Ms online banking. Halifax also said that its 
systems had detected that the address hadnt matched, but this wasnt part of its security 
checks so it wouldnt stop the payment going through. It said it did other fraud prevention 
measures and the transaction hadnt been treated as suspicious. And in relation to the 
shipping information, it said that it didnt have control over what the merchant sent in terms 
of evidence  but the merchant had provided several pieces of information which sufficiently 
suggested the payment hadnt been fraudulent.
Miss M and Ms R werent satisfied and complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. She said that Halifax had sent a report 
showing log-ins from the IP address used for the disputed transaction  and it was unlikely a 
fraudster would be able to use the same IP address as one which the account holders had 
used regularly for genuine online banking. And Miss M and Ms R had said that Ms Rs card 
hadnt been out of her possession, so it wasnt likely the card had been compromised.
Miss M and Ms R said they were very disappointed. They said they didnt understand how 
the purchase had happened, but they knew they hadnt made it. Halifaxs £30 compensation 
for service didnt start to touch on the stress and inconvenience it had caused them.
Miss M said that Halifax hadnt told her that her details had been used with Ms Rs card, and 
had told her she couldnt complain as it was Ms Rs card. She said that surely Halifax should 
have let her know, because two different peoples details had been used.
Miss M also said they were confused about the IP address, and queried that it wasnt 
impossible. They suggested the fraudster might have used or replicated the same IP 
address, so that they won and Miss M and Ms R lost their money. Miss M said she also 
didnt understand why her phone showed one IP address but Halifaxs records another. They 
also said that the type of product purchased, and the fact it was a merchant abroad, didnt 
make any sense and werent reflected in their history. And Miss M said that when shed 
checked the website, the merchant hadnt even been there any more which was suspicious.
Miss M and Ms R asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in June 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. In broad terms, these say that the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. So Ive considered whether or 
not the evidence shows that Miss M and / or Ms R authorised the payments.
 
I recognise that Miss M and Ms R have said categorically that they didnt authorise this 
payment. But Ive had to look at what the available evidence showed Halifax, to decide 
whether or not Halifax acted unfairly when it refused a refund.
Ive seen the evidence which the merchant sent back when Halifax disputed the payment 
with the merchant. Halifax also sent a copy to Miss M and Ms R. This included Ms Rs card, 
and Miss Ms name, address, email address, and the IP address which was used for the 
transaction.
Halifax also sent us a list of other, undisputed, transactions which had been made on Miss M 
and Ms Rs account.  There are nearly 50 logins between June and October 2020 which 
show the same IP address as the one which the merchant provided. 
I recognise that Miss M and Ms R have suggested that a fraudster might have used or 
replicated the same IP address. But, theres no evidence to suggest that this is the case and, 
while Ive considered what Miss M and Ms R have said, I consider this is unlikely. If a 
fraudster had indeed somehow managed to replicate that address, its unlikely that the sole 
transaction would have been a one-off £99.50 transaction  because fraudsters tend to 
maximise their gains by withdrawing as much as possible in a short time, before account 
holders can realise and stop the fraud. There were several thousand pounds in the account 
at the time, and I think its very unlikely there wouldnt have been more disputed transactions 
if a fraudster had indeed been able to replicate the IP address.Moreover, the postal address which the merchant had was the correct one for the account. I 
recognise that Miss M and Ms R say they didnt have anything delivered. But there was no 
advantage to a fraudster in authorising goods which were recorded as to be sent to the 
account holders address. 
Miss M and Ms R have also said that Halifax should have stopped the payment, because it 
used Ms Rs card and Miss Ms details. However, I accept Halifaxs explanation that its 
systems picked up the fact there was a mismatch, but that there were other, more important, 
security checks which the transaction passed.
Miss M and Ms R have also said the type of product didnt reflect their buying history; that it 
was a merchant abroad; and that theyd googled the merchant but the website wasnt there 
any more. But I dont consider these factors weigh as heavily as the technical evidence that 
the merchant provided to Halifax. In the light of that evidence when the merchant defended 
the claim, I cant see that Halifax acted unfairly or unreasonably. It seems more likely than 
not that either Miss M or Ms R carried out the transaction, or someone else at their location 
and with Ms Rs card details. This means that Halifax doesnt have to refund them.
Finally, Ive considered the £30 for service issues which Halifax paid Miss M and Ms R, and I 
consider that was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Ms R 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman