DRN-3042183
The complaint
Ms Cs complaint is about the way Sainsburys Bank Plc has administered her credit card 
account.  Ms C says it has made a series of administrative errors that have caused her 
distress and inconvenience.  Ms C thinks the offer of compensation made by Sainsburys 
Bank is not enough for the inconvenience it has caused her.
 
What happened
The problems Ms C has had with Sainsburys, which are largely admitted by Sainsburys, are 
a little involved and it is convenient to break them down into four issues.
the first issue:
As I understand it Ms C took out a credit card with Sainsburys Bank in September 2020.  In 
her statement towards the end of September Ms C was told her minimum payment due (in 
round numbers) was £50 and that the payment due date was 25 October.
Ms C did not make the payment due in October and the account went into arrears. 
It has been accepted by Sainsburys Bank that Ms C contacted it to ask about the amount 
she needed to pay to bring her account up to date and that the answers it gave were not 
complete.  Ms C had apparently asked why the minimum payment was around £100 when 
she thought it would be about £50.  As result of that conversation Ms C paid the £50 due for 
October but she did not also pay the £50 that was payable for November.  
Sainsburys apparently offered Ms C £50 for the inconvenience she had been caused and 
Ms C was unhappy with this, so it increased its offer to £75.
In response to the investigators view, Sainsburys now says, in effect, that it did not make 
any error.  Ms C had misunderstood the situation, that £50 was more than enough 
compensation and that Ms C was unreasonable in refusing that and asking for more.  I will 
return to this point below.
the second issue:
In the event, instead of paying the £75 to Ms C as agreed, Sainsburys incorrectly refunded 
the second payment of £50 that Ms C paid in November.  Sainsburys has accepted that it 
was wrong to do this and that the minimum payment on the November statement was £100 
as result of its error and that a late payment fee of £12 was charged.  To resolve matters (ie 
the first and second issue) Sainsburys offered to pay the first £75 plus a further £75 to 
apologise for its further error as well as refund the late payment charge and ensure that Ms 
Cs credit file was not impacted by the late payment mark.
There was discussion about the payment of £50 that was returned to Ms C in error.  Ms C 
had thought it was the compensation payment but that the wrong amount had been paid.  
When she was told it was her payment returned in error, Ms C did not think she should have 
to repay that sum to the Bank.  But eventually she agreed the sum would have to be repaid 
and collected by direct debit.
Ms C accepted Sainsburys offer which it confirmed in its letter of 1 December 2020 when it 
said there had been numerous errors on its part and was therefore upholding Ms Cs 
complaint.  And it said it would be paying £150 into Ms Cs bank account.
I also note that Sainsburys recorded in its notes that Ms C had a lot going on now and 
doesnt want more stress.  And it recorded that Ms C accepted its offer because she did not 
want the stress of making a complaint to the ombudsman service.
the third issue:
Ms C says she was told there should be no further problems.  However on 22 December 
2020 she tried to use her credit card to book a flight on the phone, and this was blocked by 
Sainsburys which Ms C says was very embarrassing.  
Ms C contacted Sainsburys again.  She said she had been told she would be able to use 
her card on 22 December, but the card was still blocked. Ms C says Sainsburys said the 
card was blocked because she keeps paying her account late.  She says she was very 
stressed by these comments.
The problem had been that Ms Cs direct debit had been paid on 22 December but had not 
credited to her credit card account that day.  Sainsburys accepted that it had previously told 
her that there would be no problems and it offered Ms C £25.  The reasons for making that 
offer - the thing Sainsburys thought it had got wrong - is not very clear from its letter of 23 
December 2020 which said:
Im sorry youve been given wrong information.
 Ive confirmed the information given was correct.  However weve advised there 
would be no further issues going forward.  When you tried to use your card it 
declined as the account had been in arrears.  Youve made a payment but this would 
take overnight to update onto the system.
Ill uphold your complaint for the information.  Ive offered you £25 for the 
inconvenience caused
But when responding to the investigators view, Sainsburys has said:
 
when the complaint was dealt with at the beginning of December 2020 they 
advised [Ms C] that the account would be brought up to date with the next Direct 
Debit payment which would be collected on 22 December.  This payment was 
collected, however she tried to use the card on this day but as the Direct Debit had 
just collected on this date it was still being processed, it would take overnight to 
update as the payment being cleared and the arrears block removed.
Ms C says she had lost faith in Sainsburys by this point and decided to check her credit file 
before she decided whether or not to accept the offer made.
Sainsburys now says that if Ms C had checked her online banking before the attempted 
purchase on 22 December, she would have realised the payment made that day had not 
been credited to her account. And that it would have been reasonable to check given that 
she was waiting for the account to be back up to date before she made the purchase.
Sainsburys also now says it did not say Ms C could use the card on 22 December, she was 
told she could use it when it cleared.  And that Ms C was offered £25 compensation based 
on her version of events and that the payment is not warranted.the fourth issue:
In January 2021 Ms C bought a credit report and it showed two late payments for her credit 
card in October and November.  As Ms C considered that Sainsburys had agreed to remove 
those late payment markers she complained again to Sainsburys.  
Again Sainsburys upheld Ms Cs complaint.  It said it was arranging, as a matter urgency, 
for the late payment markers to be removed by the credit reference agencies.  It went on to 
say it offered £90 which it said was to cover the cost of a three month subscription to a 
named credit agency so Ms C could check the markers had been removed. And t offered an 
additional £50 to apologise for Ms Cs continued poor experience and the £25 previously 
offered for the earlier problem making a total of £165. 
 
the complaint to the Ombudsman Service:
This offer was not accepted by Ms C.  She complained to the Ombudsman Service and our 
investigator thought Sainsburys offer of compensation for what I have called the third and 
fourth issues, was not enough.  She said Ms C had understandably suffered embarrassment 
when her attempt to buy flight tickets was blocked.  And that she suffered further distress 
and inconvenience when she found the problems on her credit file as she was applying for a 
mortgage at that time.
Sainsburys does not agree.  It thinks its offer made of compensation totalling £315 (ie £150 
already paid and further £165 offered) is appropriate.  It doesnt think the impact on Ms C 
has been so great as the flight tickets were being bought online.  It says it was not aware 
that Ms C was applying for a mortgage as she has never mentioned it in any of her dealings 
with it.  It says the three month subscription to a credit agency is generous, as is the removal 
of both late payment markers since Ms Cs first payment was made late through no fault of 
the Banks.  Sainsburys says Ms C has unreasonable expectations.  It says its earlier 
attempts to settle matters amicably should not be taken as setting a precedent for payment 
levels any time there is a problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my view that the first and second issues are resolved.  The offer made by Sainsburys 
and accepted by Ms C ought to have been the end of the matter.  It is not appropriate to 
question the amount that the parties agreed was an appropriate way to resolve the problems 
that had been experienced up to that agreement.  It is not therefore right to say now that the 
settlement was generous and use that as a reason to pay a lower amount of compensation 
for any subsequent errors.
It is, however, reasonable to take into account the poor service received in the run up to 
issues three and four when considering the level of impact later problems had.  Levels of 
annoyance and frustration may well be greater if further problems continue.  And problems 
did continue.
As a result of issues one and two it was known by Sainsburys that Ms C had missed 
payments, had been asking about when she would be able to use her credit card again and 
was finding things stressful.  In the circumstances Sainsburys did not give clear information 
to Ms C about when she would be able to use her card.  It caused Ms Cs misunderstanding 
that she would be able to use her card again on 22 December.  Ms C tried to buy tickets for a flight that day, on the phone rather than on line, and the 
transaction was refused.  Ms C says this was embarrassing (which I accept) and it will have 
been frustrating and annoying.  Ms C also had the inconvenience and annoyance of again 
having to phone the Bank to sort out the problem.  Levels of frustration would naturally be 
greater given the cumulative effect of these problems with the Bank.  I do consider that a 
payment for the distress and inconvenience is warranted.  And I do not consider the Banks 
offer of £25 was enough in the circumstances. 
Its clear that Ms C was concerned about her credit file.  She had been assured that her 
credit file would not be affected, and she delayed accepting or rejecting the offer in respect 
of the third issue while she checked her credit report.   This shows the break down in 
confidence in the Bank and Ms Cs concern about the credit file.  This was known to the 
bank  as was her earlier reference to things being stressful.  So the Bank ought to have had 
a reasonable understanding of the likely impact of its errors even if Ms C had not mentioned 
to it that she wanted to apply for a mortgage.
I accept that Ms C found it frustrating and worrying to find that the late payment markers 
were present when she had been told they would be removed  without any indication that 
that process might take some time.  I do not consider £50 to be a reasonable sum in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
While the Bank may not have been obliged to remove the first late payment marker it agreed 
to do so as part of the agreement to settle issues one and two and so it was reasonable for 
Ms C to have expected it to be removed.  It is not right to seek to reopen that point and use it 
as a reason to pay a lower amount of compensation in respect of issue four.
I do think offering to pay for three months subscription to a credit agency was a thoughtful 
and reasonable suggestion in part settlement of the problem that had been caused. 
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that, in all the circumstances, a further payment of £175 (in 
addition to the £90 for the subscription) is fair and reasonable in respect of the third and 
fourth issues.  
My final decision
I uphold Ms Cs complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc and direct it to pay Ms C £265.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman