DRN-1800064
The complaint
Mr L says My Finance Club Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four loans My Finance Club provided to Mr L between August 2019 
and November 2019. Mr Ls borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
105/08/2019 27/08/2019 25 days £250.00 £300.00 
227/08/2019 09/09/2019 28 days £400.00 £490.00 
324/10/2019 29/10/2019 10 days £120.00 £130.00 
411/11/2019 17/11/2019 28 days £300.00 £368.00 
 
Mr L complained that he had taken out four loans within three months of each other and 
some were taken immediately after the previous loan was repaid. He said in summary the 
fact the business gave him the loans without checking his credit files or bank statements is 
evidence that My Finance Club was irresponsible in lending. He said the proximity in which 
he took out the loans should have been a red flag that Mr L was heavily reliant on short term 
loans and further and more thorough checks should have been made.
In its final response to Mr L, it told him that it would not uphold his complaint. It said that for 
each loan Mr L had provided detailed income and expenditure profiles. It also said this 
information was independently and externally verified, credit reports were generated on each 
occasion and assessed. It said that Mr Ls overall indebtedness wasn't demonstrating any 
difficulty in comparison to the value of Mr Ls income. In each case Mr L repaid his loan 
earlier than expected. It said it had taken extensive steps to assess Mr Ls applications and 
the information provided, and to lend in a responsible manner for each loan.
Our adjudicator didn't think this complaint should be upheld. He said that given the loan 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ls circumstances and the loan history with the lender 
he didn't think it would have been proportionate to ask for the amount of information it 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. He also said there wasn't anything in the 
information provided which meant it should have verified the information it was getting and 
there was nothing which might have indicated an underlying financial difficulty.
Mr L disagreed with this view. He said that by the third or fourth loan, the lending relationship 
warranted further checks. Mr L referred to another decision upheld at loan 1- Mr L asked why further checks hadn't been done here, and he also said some of his loans were repaid 
the same day as another application had been made- a red flag should have been raised. 
He asked that the case be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
My Finance Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that My Finance Club should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that My Finance Club was required to 
establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
My Finance Club needed to carry out proportionate checks. For loan 1, Mr L provided his 
income and expenditure information. He declared his income as £2,245 per month. My 
Finance Club also said it carried out electronic searches to validate the specified income and 
conducted a credit reference search. This search showed a satisfactory credit file, with 
acceptable levels of existing finance being repaid. 
Mr L also stated his outgoings as £561. This included amounts for credit - £300, food- £60, 
utilities £51 and transport - £50 and a sum for other of £100. So, the total declared 
expenditure for Mr L was £561 leaving him with a disposable income of £1,684. 
My Finance Club told us that for this loan a credit report was requested and assessed. The 
report showed a number of outstanding balances on accounts leaving Mr L with an 
outstanding credit balance of £13,854. Taking into account the monthly payments for these 
loans of around £888, My Finance Club said it substituted the actual credit expenditure and 
recalculated Mr Ls affordability. Taking into account the repayments for credit Mr L still had 
a disposable income of around £1,096 per month. I think the checks carried out at this early 
stage were proportionate and I cant say it was unfair for My Finance Club to give Mr L loan 
1, or that this loan would have appeared unaffordable.
For loan 2, this time Mr L again told My Finance Club that his income was £2,245 which was 
verified. Another credit search was conducted, and it showed the existing finance was being 
repaid. The level of credit outstanding was £13,527 which had reduced from the amount in 
the credit records for loan 1. It was being paid on time, so I dont think My Finance Club 
would have been alerted to any money problems Mr L was having at this point. Mr L 
declared his expenditure to be £561. Even taking into account the actual payments for credit 
 which it did, I dont think My Finance Club would have thought this loan was unsustainable.
When My Finance Club gave Mr L loan 3, this was for a smaller sum. Mr L told My Finance 
Club that his income was £2,600. This was validated and a credit search carried out. This 
time the search showed that Mr Ls credit was £11,113. So again, the level of debt had 
decreased since the previous loan and payments to these credit commitments was being 
made on time  with no reported late fees. 
Mr L told My Finance Club that his expenses were £601. My Finance Club substituted Mr Ls 
amount for credit for the actual figure it could see in its credit search and gave Mr L an actual 
expenditure of £1,411. I think these checks were proportionate and again I dont think the 
searches revealed anything which might have alerted My Finance Club to the fact that Mr L 
was struggling financially. This loan was repaid three days earlier than agreed and closed.
When Mr L borrowed loan 4 this time, he asked for £300 over 28 days. Overall, I think My 
Finance Club did enough when it made its checks.
It could also be said that given the amounts of the loans Mr L had taken out and how 
frequently hed been borrowing, there might have been a risk at this point that Mr L was 
becoming reliant on the short-term credit and this could have been a cause for concern. So it 
could also be arguable that My Finance Club could have made some more checks 
particularly whether Mr L had taken other outstanding short-term loans. So I have also 
looked to see what it might have seen if it had taken more steps to work out what other 
short-term lending Mr L had and taken it into account.At the time of loan 4 Mr Ls income of £2,600 was validated and Mr L told it his expenditure 
was £601. My Finance Club said Mr Ls credit balance was £10,945- so again it said 
according to the credit checks it carried out, the overall credit expenses had decreased, and 
he was paying the repayments on time. It said, taking into account Mr Ls actual monthly 
expenditure of £1,211 this still showed that the loan was likely affordable.
Given what Ive said above, if My Finance Club had looked at what other short-term lending 
Mr L had I dont think it would have made a difference in its decision to lend loan 4.
I say this because Mr L has provided a copy of his bank statements from the time of loan 4 
as well as a copy of his credit file. I have looked through the bank statements and the credit 
reports carefully. It looks like when My Finance Club gave Mr L loan 4, most of the loans 
Mr L is referring to had been settled by this time so it doesn't look like there were any 
outstanding short term loans at this time. I do accept there were larger, longer term loans 
outstanding but My Finance Club seems to have been aware of these and factored the 
repayments into the amounts it allocated to Mr Ls expenditure. 
Even if it hadn't done all it should have done, I cant see anything in the statements or Mr Ls 
own credit report which might have alerted it to the fact that loan 4 would likely be 
unaffordable for Mr L. So I cant say it was unfair to give him this loan either.
All in all, Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but for the reasons set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman