DRN-4318416
The complaint
Mr G complains about legal action Cabot Credit Management Group Limited intends to take 
in relation to a credit card debt. 
What happened
Mr G had a credit card with a business Ill call N that was closed at default in June 2022. 
Cabot purchased the debt from N in July 2022 and sent a Notice of Assignment to confirm 
the new arrangement and request contact from Mr G. Cabot says that despite attempting to 
contact Mr G on numerous occasions it wasnt able to discuss its debt with him. No 
payments were made. 
In November 2022 Cabot appointed a firm of solicitors (M) to begin legal action. A letter 
before claim was issued by M on 11 November 2022 but when no contact from Mr G was 
received a legal claim was made to the courts on 16 December 2022. 
In early January 2023 Mr G called to discuss the debt and advised the credit card was party 
to a payment arrangement before it was sold by N. Mr G raised a complaint and Cabot 
issued a final response on 17 January 2023. Cabot advised it had referred Mr Gs concerns 
to N to respond to directly. The account was placed on hold while N investigated. 
N issued its final response in March 2023 but didnt agree a payment arrangement had 
existed when the account was closed and sold to Cabot. In April 2023, on Cabots behalf, M 
took the step of restarting its legal action to obtain a County Court Judgement (CCJ). Around 
the same time, M agreed to accept a payment arrangement of £1 a month for another credit 
card account Cabot holds in Mr Gs name. 
Mr G complained to Cabot about its decision to restart legal action instead of agreeing a 
payment arrangement, despite having agreed a plan for his other credit card debt. Cabot 
issued a final response on 6 June 2023 but didnt agree it had made a mistake. Cabot 
advised that once an account is referred for legal action its practice is to only accept a 
payment arrangement that would lead to the debt being repaid in under ten years. But Mr G 
was offering payments of £1 a month which wouldnt have repaid the balance in that 
timeframe. Cabot added that the other account it had in his name hadnt been referred for 
legal action, so it was able to make different arrangements with Mr G and accept £1 a 
month. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They didnt 
think Cabot had made a mistake and were satisfied it had dealt with Mr Gs complaint fairly. 
Mr G asked to appeal and said Cabot had provided misleading information about his case 
and that it had yet to obtain a CCJ against him. Mr G added he felt Cabots actions were 
were unfair given his circumstances. As Mr G asked to appeal, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
In response to the investigator, Mr G said Cabot had been unclear concerning whether legal 
action had already taken place. Id like to assure Mr G Im aware that whilst Cabots solicitors 
have referred the matter to the courts, no CCJ has been awarded yet. 
I can see that Cabot attempted to engage with Mr G by letter and telephone over the course 
of several months from July 2022, before it took the decision to pass the credit card debt to 
its solicitors. But as no response or contact from Mr G was received it took the decision to 
start legal action to recover the balance. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but Im satisfied that 
was a reasonable step in the circumstances of his case. 
Mr G has explained that Cabot and its solicitors are aware of his circumstances and ability to 
make repayments. Mr G has pointed out that Cabot agreed to accept payments of £1 a 
month towards one credit card debt but not the other. I can understand why Mr G is 
concerned and feels the difference between the way his debts have been handled is unclear. 
But Cabot has explained that whilst it holds two debts in Mr Gs name, they were at different 
stages of its collections process when the payment arrangement of £1 a month was agreed. 
And Cabot has confirmed that its practice is to only withdraw from legal action (once its 
started) if an offer to repay the debt in under 10 years is received. 
In this case, Mr G has offered Cabot £1 a month for the credit card debt in question but 
payments at that rate wont repay it within the 10 year time frame its told us about. Thats 
why Cabot has refused to withdraw its claim. Businesses are able to take legal action to 
recover a debt. And whilst I understand why Mr G has asked Cabot to withdraw the CCJ 
application, the Financial Ombudsman Service is unable to force it to do so. 
When Mr G complained in January 2023 Cabot placed legal action on hold to allow N to 
investigate. It was only after N had issued a final response and confirmed no payment 
arrangement was in place when the credit card defaulted that legal action was started again. 
Whilst I understand why Mr Gs concerned that Cabot wont accept a payment proposal of 
£1 a month to avoid legal action despite being willing to do so on another debt, I havent 
been persuaded its made a mistake or treated him unfairly. As Ive explained above, the two 
debts were at different stages of the collections process. And Im satisfied that Cabot has 
explained how it treats debts once legal action has started and why its declined to withdraw 
the CCJ claim. As Im satisfied Cabot has explained its position and no error was made, Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 Marco Manente
Ombudsman