DRN-3183342
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that he received a lower redress payment from Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited (Aviva) than the amount initially offered. 
What happened
Aviva reviewed its advice that Mr C transfer the value of his occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) benefits to a personal pension. Aviva wrote to Mr C on 25 September 2020 to tell him 
that the advice had been found to be unsuitable and setting out how Aviva would put things 
right. 
Aviva said it was offering Mr C a payment of £607,980.47, with the offer valid until 25 
December 2020. The letter said it included detailed information about how the offer had 
been calculated, which Mr C should review carefully before deciding what to do. In the 
section which set out the loss assessment it said, amongst other things, that assumptions 
may have been made. Mr C was asked to check the assumptions carefully.  
In section 2, key facts and assumptions were set out. It said that the facts used to carry out 
the loss assessment included that Mr C had received £42,122.37 tax free cash on 31 March 
2020 from the personal pension and hed started on the same date to take £2,292.79 pa as 
income which increased in payment. Under assumptions it said it had been assumed hed 
have retired from the OPS on 31 March 2020. 
I understand that Mr C spoke to Aviva over the telephone and told Aviva that he hadnt in 
fact retired. Hed turned 60 in March 2020 but hed carried on working. 
Aviva wrote to Mr C again on 23 November 2020, thanking him for providing new information 
in relation to the previous calculation assumptions used and saying the offer of redress had 
been recalculated. Aviva offered £602,885.14, which was £5,095.33 less than the original 
offer. 
Mr C accepted the (second) offer on 25 November 2020 and £602,885.14 was paid to him 
on 18 December 2020. A trouble and upset payment of £250 was paid on 3 December 2020. 
And additional redress of £10,199.96 for the GMP (Guaranteed Minimum Pension) element 
was paid on 20 August 2021  the offer letters had said that additional compensation might 
later be paid in respect of GMP equalisation, depending on further guidance from the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Mr C was unhappy with the lower payment and complained to Aviva in December 2020. He 
said hed been left in a worse position because of Avivas mistake. He didnt feel hed been 
treated fairly given the difference between the two offers. He said Aviva had clearly made a 
mistake yet, when hed raised it, hed been told that Aviva had rigorous checks and 
processes and couldnt have made a mistake. Hed only done what hed been asked and let 
Aviva know that the letter contained incorrect information. That hadnt come from him or the 
pension provider so the mistake could only have happened at Avivas end. He understood 
Aviva had to follow regulatory procedures and recalculate but he didnt think it could be right 
that a customer was left in a worse position due to changes in the markets and when the 
reason for the recalculation was down to Avivas mistake. He said it had added to the stress 
hed suffered. 
Aviva didnt agree that Mr C should be paid the higher amount. Mr C referred his complaint 
to us. 
Our investigator issued her view on 11 November 2021. She didnt think Aviva needed to 
take any further action. In summary she said that Avivas offer clearly outlined the facts and 
assumptions used. Aviva was relying on Mr C to put right anything that had been captured 
incorrectly. The offer also explained that the redress once calculated is only valid for a set 
period of time. If the offer hadnt been accepted within the given timeframe or if Aviva was 
provided with new information to correct the facts and assumptions previously used, Aviva 
was obliged to recalculate the offer. As Mr C had provided Aviva with new information that 
changed the basis of the calculation. And, as daily market rates are used, that will affect the 
recalculation too.  
The investigator said the redress offered wasnt final and binding until Aviva had the signed
acceptance that the facts and assumptions used were correct and Aviva was confident the 
correct amount of redress the consumer was entitled to was being paid. It was unfortunate 
that a lower offer was generated but Aviva hadnt acted unfairly by carrying out a 
recalculation.  
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view and asked for the matter to be considered by an 
ombudsman. 
He said he hadnt supplied new information. All hed done was to point out a mistake in the 
first offer letter. He did that in good faith, having checked the offer letter as instructed by 
Aviva. The mistake was to list an assumption as a fact. If Aviva had listed the assumption in 
the correct place he wouldnt have contacted Aviva to point it out and that assumption would 
then have been used to arrive at the amount first offered. Instead of Aviva just moving the 
assumption into the correct section, it seems the process required them to recalculate. In the 
intervening period market conditions changed and the calculation came out lower. He didnt 
think it was fair for him to be penalised for Aviva not having appropriate quality control 
checks in place to make sure information is in the correct place before letters are issued. He 
said Aviva should acknowledge their mistake and honour the original offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that his matter has caused Mr C stress and that he doesnt feel hes been treated 
fairly. Hes understandably disappointed that the original amount that was quoted was then 
reduced. Ive considered very carefully all hes and why he considers Aviva should honour 
the offer it originally made to Mr C. 
Aviva offered redress to Mr C because Aviva, having reviewed advice given to Mr C to 
transfer out of his OPS, found that advice to have been unsuitable. The regulator, the FCA, 
has set out guidance, published in October 2017 (and since updated), for firms as to how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit (final salary) pension transfers. The aim is to 
put the consumer back in the financial position theyd have been in, had they not transferred 
out of the OPS. Avivas position is that its revised offer does that. 
The original redress amount was calculated using a mixture of facts and assumptions. 
Although Mr C draws a distinction between facts and assumptions, how theyre labelled and where they appear, I think theres an overlap and overall its all information which has to be 
factored into the calculation. 
The information which Mr C queried appeared as a fact. I can see that, if it had been shown 
as an assumption, he may not have queried it  he may have thought that was the basis on 
which Aviva was required to calculate the redress payment. That said, the letter did ask him 
to point out any incorrect assumptions too. And that assumptions might be made where full 
details arent available. As Ive said, theres not a clear separation between facts and 
assumptions. What was said about Mr C having taken benefits from his personal pension 
wasnt correct. So Mr C was right to point out that the position was different to what Aviva 
understood or had assumed.  
I understand why Mr C feels that as the wrong information didnt come from him any mistake 
was Avivas and so it should honour the original offer. Im not sure how it came about that 
the first loss assessment recorded that Mr C had taken benefits from his personal pension in 
March 2020. Although hed turned 60 that month, it doesnt seem that was the OPS normal 
retirement date  I note the second loss assessment said it was assumed that Mr C wouldve 
retired from the OPS on 1 October 2020, which it seems was earlier than the OPS normal 
retirement date. 
The calculations that have to be undertaken in accordance with the FCAs guidance to put 
right unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers are highly complex. To undertake the 
calculation, information has to be gathered from several sources, including the OPS and the 
consumer and, as this case demonstrates, assumptions will also feature too. And, as daily 
prices are used, the date the calculation is undertaken will also have an effect too as values 
can go up or down. I note that the original loss calculation showed the value of Mr Cs 
personal pension at £181,591.53 whereas in the second loss calculation it was £190,228.14. 
The values of the lost OPS benefits had also increased too. 
But Avivas original offer wasnt unconditional. It set out that it was based on certain 
facts/assumptions and asked Mr C to point out any discrepancies. I think Aviva had reserved 
the right to amend the offer, if any of the information used in the calculation might be wrong. 
Thats notwithstanding that Mr C may have accepted the offer  I think he may have done 
that on 10 November 2020. But I dont think that meant that Aviva was obliged to pay him 
the higher amount originally offered. And even though any mistake in the calculation or in the 
information shown on the accompanying paperwork may have been Avivas and hadnt been 
picked up during Avivas checking or quality control procedures. 
Sometimes, where an offer has been made with turns out to be incorrect and the new offer is 
lower, a business may agree to honour the original sum quoted. But I dont think I can 
require Aviva to do that here. Its obligation, having found that the advice to transfer out of the 
OPS was unsuitable, was to put things right by redressing Mr C for any loss hed suffered. If 
Aviva has calculated and paid redress in line with the regulators guidance then I dont think 
Aviva can be compelled to pay more. 
I note that Aviva made a payment of £250 to Mr C. I think that was for the disappointment 
hed suffered and the time taken generally to redress him for the unsuitable advice. I think 
thats fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint and Im not making any award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman