DRN-3599217
The complaint
Mr G complains that Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG 
is responsible for poor service in connection with a breakdown insurance policy.
Where I refer to the insurer, I refer to the above-named company and I include the 
assistance provider, the intermediary and others insofar as I hold the insurer responsible for 
their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mr G has some medical conditions. During the Covid-19 pandemic, he self-isolated for some 
time. He wasnt using his car, so he made a Statutory Off-Road Notification (SORN).
For the year from late September 2020, Mr G had a breakdown insurance policy. It was 
branded with the trading name of an insurance intermediary. The policy named an 
assistance provider. The insurer was ultimately responsible for dealing with claims.
In late July 2021, Mr G called for help under the policy. The insurer declined to help, 
because he had no MOT or road tax for his car.
Mr G complained to the insurer that hed had to pay a recovery service £60.00 to take his car 
to a garage for an MOT test in early August 2021.
By a final response dated 6 August 2021, the insurer turned down the complaint. 
Mr G brought the complaint to us in January 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
the insurer acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The contract he entered into was during normal times but subsequently we were 
living through unprecedented times. Certain insurance companies acknowledged that 
premiums they had charged did not reflect the risk they had undertaken because of 
substantially changed circumstances. Rather than profiteering from the situation, they 
were willing to come to some accommodation with their policyholders. The 
investigator didnt put sufficient weight to the prevailing conditions.
He has acknowledged that strictly speaking he doesnt have a leg to stand on; but 
argued that extenuating circumstances prevailed and there should be some 
acknowledgement of this which should translate into some, if not all his additional 
expense being reimbursed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG is a company based 
in Liechtenstein, a country within the European Economic Area.
From what Mr G and the insurer have each said, Mr G did a SORN for his vehicle from 1 
April 2020.
Mr Gs vehicles MOT certificate wouldve expired in late April 2020, but government 
regulations extended its validity to late October 2020. 
From the certificate of insurance for the year from September 2020, I see that the total cost 
of the breakdown policy was £84.00 including Insurance Premium Tax. 
From 31 December 2020, the insurer has had a temporary permission to carry out 
insurance in the United Kingdom. So Im satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
has jurisdiction to deal with this complaint. 
The terms of the breakdown insurance policy included the following:
What is Not Covered
Vehicles which do not have a valid MOT certificate, are untaxed, uninsured, 
unroadworthy or dangerous to transport at the time of breakdown
The terms had general exclusions including the following:
15. Assistance if any vehicle does not have a valid MOT certificate, is untaxed, 
uninsured, unroadworthy or dangerous to transport at the time of breakdown
The Insurance Product Information Document included the following:
What is not insured?
Assistance if the vehicle does not have a valid MOT certificate, is untaxed, or 
uninsured at the time of breakdown
In July 2021, Mr Gs vehicle had no valid MOT certificate. The SORN was still in effect so the 
vehicle was untaxed.
Mr G has raised the issue of periods affected by Covid-19 and government restrictions which 
had the effect of reducing the risks to insurers. Mr Gs claim was that  after over a year of 
not being driven  his car engine wouldnt start. He considers that it would be fair for the 
insurer to meet that claim. 
However, I conclude that the policy clearly didnt cover such a claim when the car had no 
MOT or tax. Notwithstanding the pandemic and Mr Gs vulnerability due to his health 
conditions, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to reimburse any part of the 
£60.00 invoice he paid to another provider to take his car to a garage. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG to do any 
more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman