DRN-3915285
The complaint
Mr O complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined his claim under his 
motor insurance policy after his car was stolen.
What happened
Admiral declined Mr Os claim because they said that policy exceptions applied, and he was 
also in breach of several different policy conditions. Mr O had been renting his car out to a 
third party while he was away overseas for several months and the car was stolen from the 
third partys home. Also the third party had lost the car key shortly before the theft and no 
one had told Admiral about that until after the theft.
Mr O said hed put the third party on the policy as a named driver and that should be 
enough. He was unhappy as he was still having to pay the finance on the car despite its 
theft. He wanted Admiral to pay his claim.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She thought Admiral had 
declined the claim fairly as they had acted in line with the policy terms. Mr O didnt agree and 
so Ive been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral declined Mr Os claim for a number of policy breaches and cancelled his policy.
  
The policy states on page 19: 
General exceptions
We will not pay for any loss, damage or liability directly or indirectly caused by or contributed 
to by: 
1.Your vehicle being: .
j. rented out or used for a peer to peer hire scheme. 
2. Your vehicle being an agreement you have made under another contract.
It also states in the General Conditions:
 
18: Motor trade
This policy is not to be used to facilitate the purchase, sale, rental or recovery of any vehicle:
for profit or
in connection with a trade or business.
Failure to comply with the above could result in the claim being refused and/or your policy 
being cancelled.
Mr O had been out of the country overseas for several months and had been renting out his 
car for £1,000 a month to the third party. Mr O said he wasn't formally renting or hiring out 
his car; he was only letting it be used temporarily by someone he trusted and considered to 
be a friend, and hed added him to Mr Os policy as a named driver. However Mr O said that 
he first met the third party through an online car sharing platform. He then developed 
confidence in the third party and decided to rent his car to him privately, and not through the 
platform, for £1,000 a month. I think this arrangement clearly falls within the term of the 
exception and breaches the above condition too. I dont think it matters if Mr O put the third 
party on as a named driver. 
Mr O wasnt in charge of the car at the time of the theft. The car was under the control of the 
third party, and it was stolen from outside his house, which was not Mr Os UK address, the 
one on the policy. The third party admitted that hed lost the key shortly before the car was 
stolen. So I think the fact that Mr O had rented it out to someone else did contribute to its 
loss.  
I think the above exceptions are clear and reasonable and we think its up to a policyholder 
to read the terms of their policy and ensure they comply. 
Admiral said that Mr O and the third party had failed to follow other conditions of the policy 
too, and that breached General Condition 1. And that theyd also breached General 
Condition 14 in that Mr O must be a permanent UK resident, and General Condition 15 in 
that he hadnt told them beforehand that he had changed how he used his car and that 
information on the proposal confirmation had changed.
I dont think that Mr O necessarily stopped being a resident of the UK just because he didnt 
live here for some months and was overseas instead. But I do agree that he had failed to tell 
Admiral how hed changed his use of his car and that relevant information had changed. He 
was away for months and wasnt using his car, it was being used by someone else and 
being kept at a different address. I think these do breach these conditions and were 
important matters to Admiral, which were like to affect whether they would continue to 
provide insurance at all, and if so, the terms on which they would do it. 
Admiral also said that Mr O and the third party hadnt complied with General Condition 3 in 
that theyd failed to protect the vehicle from loss or damage and remove and secure any 
keys or device that allowed access to it if left unoccupied. Admiral had their doubts about the 
circumstances of the theft, because shortly before the theft the third party had lost the key 
and got a new one coded, which meant the car could potentially have been stolen with the 
lost key. I can see that Admiral did investigate this and got a statement from the third party 
about the loss of the key and the theft, but they havent shown that the car was left 
unsecured because of the key loss. 
However I think that Admiral have shown that Mr O failed to comply with the other conditions 
above. They have also shown that the policy exceptions applied. These are fundamental to 
the insurance contract and to the risk that Admiral took in insuring Mr O and his car.  
So overall, I dont think Admiral were unfair or unreasonable to decline his claim and they did 
so in line with the policy. This means that I dont require them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
