DRN-3259016
The complaint
Ms W complains about her mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc. She says it didnt 
warn her that her fixed rate was coming to an end, and wouldnt agree to extend the 
mortgage term so she could take a new rate. This caused her financial loss.
What happened
Ms W had a mortgage with NatWest. She took a fixed rate which ended on 31 December 
2020. She says that NatWest didnt give her enough notice that the rate was coming to an 
end. And when she did realise, and applied for a new rate, she was told she couldnt have 
one because there was only one year left of the mortgage term. 
Ms W asked NatWest to extend the term so she could take a new rate, but it refused. So 
Ms W moved her mortgage to another lender. 
Ms W complains that NatWest didnt warn her of the end of the rate, and refused a new rate 
and a term extension. She says shes lost out because she spent around seven weeks on 
NatWests standard variable rate (SVR) before she was able to move elsewhere, paying 
more interest as a result. She says NatWest is required to write to her to give her six months 
notice of the end of a rate.
This is a buy to let mortgage, and Ms W complains that NatWests errors compounded the 
financial problems caused by the coronavirus pandemic impacting her rental income.
NatWest says that it told Ms W how long her interest rate lasted and when it would end when 
she took it out. It said Ms W wasnt eligible for a new rate as she only had one year left on 
her mortgage  so it didnt write to her to tell her about new rates she couldnt apply for. And 
in any case it was up to Ms W to manage her mortgage and make sure she knew when her 
rates ended and that she applied for a new rate or re-mortgage in time. However, it offered 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill, in recognition of her financial difficulties and as a contribution 
to the costs of moving her mortgage elsewhere.
Our investigator thought that was a reasonable offer. So Ms W asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W says NatWest should have written to her six months before her rate ended to warn her 
and give her time to make other arrangements. But Im afraid I dont think shes right about 
that.
Theres no requirement on lenders to give borrowers six months notice of the end of a rate. 
The FCA  the regulator of financial services  has rules which require lenders of regulated 
mortgages to notify customers a reasonable time before their payments change, but there is 
no six month rule. And in any case, this is an unregulated buy to let mortgage, so the rules of 
mortgage regulation dont apply.
However, even though this is an unregulated mortgage, NatWest is a regulated firm  and so 
must still comply with the overriding principle of paying due regard to customers information 
needs and communicating with them in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading. So Ive 
thought about whether NatWest has done that in this case.
Ive looked at the product transfer agreement  the agreement for a new interest rate  
NatWest sent Ms W in 2018. 
It says the duration of the loan is three years and three months (from October 2018). And it 
says this about the new interest rate:
The product is a 2 year fixed  A fixed rate of 1.90% until 31/12/2020 Your loan 
reverts to National Westminster Bank Plcs Standard Variable Rate, currently 4.24% 
on 01/01/2021.
I think that is clear, fair and not misleading. It very clearly explains that Ms W is taking a two 
year rate on a three year loan, and that from January 2021 she will pay the SVR.
NatWest said it didnt send Ms W a letter notifying her that her payments were going to 
change when the product ended in 2020.
Ive explained that this is an unregulated loan  because its a buy to let mortgage, not a 
mortgage on Ms Ws home  and so there are no specific rules in place setting out what 
NatWest must do. But it must communicate in a way thats clear fair and not misleading, 
paying due regard to a customers information needs.
So there was no specific obligation on NatWest to notify Ms W that her interest rate was 
about to end  six months before, or at any other time  and no specific requirement to tell 
her that her monthly payment was about to increase. Nonetheless, even though there was 
no specific requirement to do so, NatWest should have had regard to Ms Ws information 
needs. I think it would have been fair for NatWest to have reminded Ms W that her rate was 
coming to an end and her payments were about to increase a reasonable time before they 
did so.
However, NatWest did clearly set out when the rate ended in the offer to Ms W in 2018. This 
isnt a residential mortgage, its a buy to let mortgage  in other words, its a loan related to a 
property rental business Ms W is running. 
I would expect a reasonably diligent business person running a business to be aware of their 
income, costs and likely profit. In particular, to be aware of and plan for changes in the major 
expenditure of the business, in this case the mortgage payments.
With that in mind, I think its reasonable to expect that Ms W ought to have taken note of the 
rate end date clearly set out in the product switch offer from 2018. And reasonable to expect 
that she would have planned for it and, if she wanted to do so, made arrangements to move 
her mortgage in good time.
Taking that into account, while I do think that NatWest should have reminded Ms W of the 
approaching end of her rate, I cant find that its entirely responsible for Ms W not being 
aware of the rate expiry until it happened. And in those circumstances I think its offer of £100 
compensation is a fair one.Ms W also complains that NatWest wouldnt offer her a new rate, meaning she had to move 
her mortgage elsewhere, and that she didnt know she would be in this position when she 
took a two year rate in 2018.
I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly here. The 2018 offer is clear that this is a two year 
rate on a three year mortgage. And it seems this was a non-advised sale  meaning that it 
was up to Ms W to decide if this was the right product for her. NatWests responsibility was 
to give her enough information so she could make up her own mind, rather than recommend 
a specific rate or give her advice.
It might have been possible for Ms W to have taken a three year rate rather than a two year 
rate in 2018. But I dont think NatWest misled her about what she did take, and I dont think it 
gave any indication that she would be able to take another rate when this one expired.
As it was, Ms W wasnt eligible for a new rate. This is because the minimum rate is two 
years, but there was only one year left to go on this mortgage. There was no rate available 
to her. And NatWest was entitled to expect that the mortgage would be repaid at the end of 
the term as Ms W had agreed; it didnt need to agree to extend the mortgage term so she 
could take a new rate.
When she took out this rate in 2018, Ms W told NatWest that she would repay the mortgage 
three years later by selling the property. But her plans have clearly changed in the meantime 
 since in 2021, after this rate expired, she moved her mortgage to a new lender on a nine 
year term with a two year fixed rate. I dont think its likely she would have done that if she 
still intended to sell the property in 2022.
That being the case, Ms W would have had to re-mortgage at the end of the NatWest term in 
2022. Thats because she would have needed to repay this mortgage then, and if not selling 
the property would have to re-mortgage. So I dont think theres any financial loss to her in 
re-mortgaging in 2021 rather than 2022. The costs of doing so are costs she always would 
have had to incur, even if they came sooner. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to refuse Ms W a new interest rate in January 
2021 when there was only one year left on her mortgage term. And I dont think its 
responsible for the costs of moving her mortgage elsewhere. Ive said that its offer of £100 is 
fair compensation for not reminding her of the end of the fixed rate, and theres nothing 
further I can fairly ask NatWest to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc has 
made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. It should pay Ms W £100 
compensation, if it hasnt already made payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman