DRN-1570052
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S complain about what happened when they asked Santander UK Plc to get
their money back for a car they bought.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr S bought a car. They paid with a mixture of debit card (for £6,894) and cash.
When it was delivered, they said that a DAB radio and satnav were missing. They tried to get
the seller to sort this out, and he agreed to do this, but didnt. Then all the phone numbers
they had for him were no longer answered. Mrs K and Mr S found out that the seller, a
limited company, had actually been dissolved before they bought the car. So they asked
Santander to try to get their money back.
Santander initially logged a chargeback request for Mrs K and Mr S. But then it said it
couldnt go ahead with this. It has said that it couldnt make the chargeback because Mrs K
and Mr S hadnt sent details it requested, and also said it couldnt go ahead because they
hadnt returned the car. Mr S said hed sent all the details he could send. And he had told
Santander that the seller was a business that had been dissolved before this car was sold to
them, so he couldnt take the car back. There was nowhere to return it to.
At first, our investigator said that he didnt think Santander had to make a chargeback, as it
was unlikely to succeed against a firm in administration. But he thought Santander hadnt
managed the process well at all, so he thought it should pay £250 for the unnecessary
stress, inconvenience and loss of expectation.
But Mr S said he still thought Santander could make a chargeback even though the firm had
gone into administration. And Santander also said it didnt think this was a reason not to
make a chargeback request. But it did think that the request was unlikely to succeed
anyway. That was because there was no evidence the items Mrs K and Mr S were
complaining were missing had ever been included in the sale. Santander thought it had let
Mrs K and Mr S down with poor service, so it offered £100 more.
Our investigator said hed reached the same view as before, but for slightly different
reasons. He said Santander did the right thing, starting a chargeback claim, even though the
firm had gone into liquidation. He didnt think Mrs K and Mr S had failed to supply the
requested information about their purchase and reasons for making a chargeback. So he
thought the chargeback shouldve gone ahead. But he didnt think it wouldve been
successful. There was no evidence this car was being sold with a DAB radio and a satnav.
So he thought the chargeback wouldve been unsuccessful for lack of evidence. He still
thought Santander should pay Mrs K and Mr S for failings in the way the chargeback was
handled.
Santander said that lack of evidence was why the chargeback had been declined. It didnt
agree that it needed to make a chargeback request in these circumstances, but said it would
pay the suggested £250 to bring the case to a close. But Mr S didnt agree. He said that the
DAB radio and satnav come as standard on this model. And he said hed found out later that
the car had been clocked, so he thought that he shouldve been given the full chargeback
amount, to cover the cost of the value of the vehicle.
Mr S wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
I think Santander has made a number of mistakes here. Its not been clear with Mrs K 
and Mr S what it wanted, or why it was taking decisions. So I understand that this has 
been a frustrating process for Mrs K and Mr S. I still propose to ask Santander to pay 
the £250 in compensation that it has agreed to. But I dont think it has to do more 
than that. Ill explain why I think that.
Mrs K and Mr S says that theyve lost a lot of money, so £250 isnt enough to make 
up for that. Mrs K and Mr S would like back all the money they paid on their card. For 
me to ask Santander to pay that, Id have to decide that if Santander had done 
everything right, Mrs K and Mr S wouldve got back all that money. And I dont think, 
even if Santander had done everything right in this case, that the chargeback 
wouldve been successful.
Firstly, both Santander and Mrs K and Mr S have said that a chargeback can be 
made against a company in administration. But this company had actually been 
dissolved, which means it ceased to exist in law, before Mrs K and Mr S bought the 
car. I think that further complicates the picture here. That may have affected the 
chances of a chargeback claim succeeding. But in this case, I think that even without 
this, a claim wouldve been unlikely to succeed.
Mrs K and Mr S say that the car they bought should have a satnav and DAB radio, as
standard. But that doesnt necessarily mean that a second-hand vehicle would still 
have these items. Theres no direct evidence that these were going to be included in 
a sale. Without that direct evidence, a chargeback request based on this was unlikely 
to succeed. 
I cant see that Mrs K and Mr S provided details of the independent mechanics report 
that they say showed the car was clocked to Santander. Mr S just said the mileage 
was suspect. Santander cant base a chargeback request on that.
Mrs K and Mr S said that what Santander offered wasnt enough. They thought they 
should get back what they paid on their card. But while Mrs K and Mr S still have the 
car, it wouldnt have been appropriate to make a chargeback request for the full value 
of the car, based either on the car having been clocked or items missing. Its not 
clear from the evidence I have how much these points might affect the value of the 
car, but it seems unlikely to be as much as the amount Mrs K and Mr S paid by card.
In these circumstances, I think the payment of £250 for poor service in the 
processing of the chargeback request does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. Ill ask Santander to pay that now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Santander said it had nothing to add. Mr S replied with some additional points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S sent us the garage report which included the missing or faulty items. He said he didnt 
have written confirmation that the car had been clocked but he had been told this by a 
mechanic who deals with these cars. I said in my provisional decision that Santander 
wouldnt have been able to base a chargeback request on this without further evidence. I still 
think that.
Mr S also said that the trader had dissolved the company, but had sold the car to him using 
a similar name, without Limited at the end. I said in my provisional decision that even if the 
issue of who the chargeback was against was successfully resolved, I didnt think that would 
change the outcome. Again, I still think that.
Mr S said that hed now sold the car at a substantial loss, due to the many defects that had 
been identified. Im sorry to hear that. But I dont think that changes the overall position on 
whether this chargeback was likely to succeed. I dont think, on the evidence Mr S had, that 
it was likely to.
Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mrs K and Mr S £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman