DRN-2900501
The complaint
Mr W has complained about charges applied by Close Brothers Limited trading as Close 
Brothers Motor Finance under a conditional sale agreement. 
What happened
In April 2018 Mr W acquired a used car under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers. The car was around 9 years old and had covered around 70,000 miles. The 
cash price of the car was £8,499. 
In April 2020 Mr W decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement. It looks like 
Close Brothers indicated there might be a short delay in collecting the car as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. I think the collection agents ended up collecting the car in May 2020. By 
this point, it had covered around 97,500 miles. Close Brothers asked Mr W to pay it £540.70 
in relation to damage on the car, which it felt was outside of fair wear and tear. It was 
originally intending to charge Mr W for a missing key as well, but this was waived. 
Mr W complained. He said that damage or marks on the wheels were there when he 
acquired the car. He also said the collection agents didnt check for damage when it 
collected the car  so he had no proof of the damage at the time the car was handed back. 
He said the car was 11 years old when it was handed back, so would not have been 
expected to be in a new condition. He also said the collection agent drove the car away and 
so could have caused the damage then. Mr W also complained he received an arrears letter, 
when hed not missed any payments.
Close Brothers declined the complaint and said it thought the charges for the damage were 
fairly applied. 
Our investigator looked into things, and partially upheld it. He thought some of the damage 
on the car could fairly be considered outside of fair wear and tear, but he thought that other 
charges should be removed. The charges he felt were fair were in relation to damage on:
Near side front and rear wheel.
Offside front and rear wheel.
Rear bumper.
The charges he felt should be removed were in relation to damage on:
Front door.
Rear door.
Front bumper. 
Our investigator also noted Mr W was sent a letter in May 2020 saying he was in arrears of 
around £1,700. He thought this letter was sent in error and had caused Mr W some worry 
and inconvenience. So he also recommended Close Brothers pay Mr W £50 compensation. 
Close Brothers responded and agreed to pay the £50 compensation. And it ultimately 
agreed to remove the charge for the rear door dent. But it didnt agree to remove the other 
two charges. 
Mr W responded to say the only charge he agreed with was the rear bumper. And that the 
wheels were damaged when he bought the car. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W acquired the car using a regulated conditional sale agreement, and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
The terms and conditions of the conditional sale agreement that Mr W entered into say:
TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write to the person you 
make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the goods and to 
half the total amount payable under this agreement, that is £5,815.52. If you have 
already paid at least this amount plus any overdue instalments and have taken 
reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay any more. 
They go on to say:
4. Repair and Maintenance
4.1 You must maintain the Goods in good and reasonable order and condition at your 
expense. You are responsible for all loss of or damage to, the Goods, except for any 
due to fair wear and tear. 
As a starting point, I think the agreement sets out that upon handing back the car it wasnt 
unreasonable for Close Brothers to charge Mr W for any damage that was outside of fair 
wear and tear. And given the car was picked up within a few weeks of Mr W voluntarily 
terminating the agreement, I also dont think the delays caused to the collection of the car as 
a result of Covid-19 were excessive. 
Mr W argues the damage was either there when he bought it, or that it was caused after it 
had been collected. Otherwise, he also says the damage is not outside of fair wear and tear 
given the car was 11 years old when it was handed back and had covered nearly 100,000 
miles. Although he has said he accepts the charge in relation to the rear bumper. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows what condition the car was in when Mr W acquired 
it. It was around nine years old, so it likely wasnt in the same condition it was in when it was 
new. So I accept the car may well have already suffered some wear and tear. Ive done 
some research on well known car comparison tools. And it looks like the price Mr W paid for 
the car (taking into account its age and mileage) wasnt excessively higher or lower than the 
average prices around that time. This suggests the car was in relatively good condition. So, 
while not conclusive, I dont think its likely the car had a lot of significant damage when 
Mr W acquired it  but its not unreasonable to expect it had some. Ive not been provided a copy of an inspection report signed by Mr W when the car was 
collected. So Im not able to say he accepted the charges. Mr W has provided a photo of the 
car, but I dont know when it was taken, and it doesnt have a clear close up image of the 
areas Close Brothers is saying are damaged. Ive also not been provided with much detail 
about what happened after the car was collected. For example, what mileage was covered, 
or how many days it took to inspect the car.  
But I do have a copy of an inspection report completed 27 May 2020. So I think the 
inspection was carried out not that long after Mr W asked to voluntarily terminate his 
agreement. Of course, its possible that some of the damage was caused after the car was 
collected. I cant know for sure. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Given the damage on the car was on all the wheels and various panels, I dont think the 
most likely thing to have happened is that it was caused after Mr W handed back the car. On 
balance, I think its more likely than not the damage was there when it was collected. And 
given Ive found its likely the car was in good condition when it was supplied to Mr W, I think 
at least some of the damage was caused during the time it was in his possession. He'd 
covered a significant number of miles in the car when he had it  nearly 30,000. So Ive gone 
on to consider whether the damage on the car was outside of fair wear and tear and if 
Close Brothers acted reasonably by charging for it.   
Close Brothers has acknowledged the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) guidelines on fair wear and tear is predominantly most relevant for vehicles that are 
generally under five years old and that have been handed back after their first leasing cycle. 
But its said its generally also accepted in the industry to use it for older vehicles when 
theyre returned under finance agreements. I agree the BVRLA guidance is mainly intended 
for much younger cars than the one Mr W handed back. And I think its only reasonable that 
when considering whats fair wear and tear, I have to look through a lens that takes into 
account the car was 11 years old and had covered nearly 100,000 miles. So while I take the 
BVRLA guidance into account, I dont think it would be fair to apply it strictly in this case. 
Close Brothers has agreed the rear door dent shouldnt be chargeable. And I agree with this 
too. The picture provided on the inspection report isnt clear theres a dent, or how big it is. 
I also agree with our investigator that the near side front door dent shouldnt be chargeable. 
The picture Ive been provided of the dent looks more like a scuff or scratch than a dent. And 
similarly, the damage on the front bumper looks like a scuff or scratch too. Neither picture is 
particularly clear either. While both marks are noticeable, neither of them looks like they 
have penetrated the primer. On balance, I dont think either mark should fairly be classed as 
outside of fair wear and tear for an 11 year old car that had covered nearly 100,000 miles. 
So I dont think either of those should be chargeable. 
All that is left is the damage to the four wheels and the damage to the rear bumper. Mr W 
has agreed with the charge for the rear bumper. And it does look like the damage was quite 
noticeable and theres evidence of a previous repair thats left the bumper quite marked with 
an uneven paint finish. So I agree this is fairly chargeable too. And I dont find a charge of 
around £97 excessive. 
Finally, Ive looked at the damage to the four wheels. I think its fair to say that three of the 
wheels have relatively significant marks on them  the near side rear, the offside front and 
offside rear. Theyve all be scratched likely by a kerb at some point. And Close Brothers would likely have incurred a cost to fix them, or the car would likely have suffered a loss in 
resale value as a result of the damage. While Ill never know if the damage was there when 
Mr W bought the car, given he paid a fair price for it that was relatively in line with a good 
condition model, on balance, I think its likely that some, if not all of the damage to the 
wheels was caused when he had the car. So, while I appreciate Mr W doesnt agree, I also 
dont think Close Brothers has acted unfairly by applying a charge here. And I dont find that 
a charge of around £40 per wheel is excessive either. 
However, the photo of the damage on the near side front wheel isnt that clear. The wheel 
certainly isnt as scratched or damaged as much as the others. The photo is quite blurry. 
And the damage doesnt look that significant  taking into account the cars age and 
mileage. So I asked our investigator to contact the parties to say that I dont think this should 
be chargeable either. 
Mr W reiterated all the wheels were damaged when he bought it and highlighted the age of 
the car. Close Brothers disagreed the image wasnt clear. And it said the car was sold at 
auction well below the expected retail price for this model car of a similar age and mileage.  
Ive thought about what both parties have said. I still stand by saying the image Ive been 
provided isnt very clear. And I dont think its fair to say that not getting a retail price at an 
auction is the fairest test to show the wheel had damage that was outside of fair wear and 
tear given the cars age and mileage. Auction prices vary considerably for a number of 
reasons. So, for the reasons given above, I dont think the charge for the near side front 
wheel should be chargeable. 
Therefore, with regards to the damage charges, Im going to direct Close Brothers to remove 
the charges for the front and rear door, the near side front wheel, as well as the front 
bumper. I will also direct it to remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file in 
relation to the matter. 
Finally, I turn to the arrears letter that Close Brothers sent to Mr W by mistake. 
Close Brothers has accepted the letter shouldnt have been sent. And its agreed with our 
investigators recommendation of £50 compensation. This seems like a fair and reasonable 
way to resolve this part of the complaint. I agree the letter would have been concerning and 
confusing for Mr W to receive. So Im not minded to recommend anything different.
  
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor 
Finance should:
Remove the charges for the damage on the front door, the rear door, the near side 
front wheel and the front bumper. 
Remove any adverse information in relation to the charges from Mr Ws credit file. 
Pay Mr W £50 compensation. 
Close Brothers must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr W accepts my final decision, if its not done so already. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Close Brothers Limited, trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance to put things right as Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman