DRN-3215850
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the way PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) has responded to 
a claim he made to it in relation to a service he bought using credit it provided.
What happened
Mr T used PayPal Credit to buy a flight. However, because of his concerns about travelling 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic he thought about cancelling the flight. In February 2020 he 
wrote about his concerns to the booking agent (the Agent) he bought the ticket from.
The Agent wrote back to Mr T to ask him to confirm if he wanted to cancel and said he would 
be an eligible for a full refund. Mr T wrote back to say he wanted to cancel and get a full 
refund. However, Mr T had difficulty getting any response from the Agent after this. So he 
contacted PayPal for help.
 
Mr T wrote to PayPal to explain the situation and provided proof that the Agent had agreed 
to refund the money. Mr T said he was concerned that PayPal would start to charge interest 
on the transaction so wanted the matter resolved.
PayPal did not agree to uphold Mr Ts claim via its Buyer Protection Policy (BPP) or Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit At 1974 (Section 75). In summary, it said:
Mr T was not eligible under the BPP for a refund in these circumstances; and 
The transaction was not covered by Section 75 as he bought the tickets via an Agent 
rather than from the airline directly  which breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain 
required for a valid claim.
Mr T was unhappy with this and complained. PayPal wrote again in June 2020 with its final 
response letter  rejecting his complaint.
Mr T was dissatisfied with this, and also the way PayPal handled the matter. In summary, he 
considered the customer service was unresponsive and disregarded his consumer rights. He 
referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator looked at the matter. In summary, the investigator concluded:
Mr T did have a valid Section 75 claim in respect of the actions of the Agent  and 
that it had breached its contract with him by not paying out the full refund as 
promised; and
The customer service PayPal provided was not unreasonable in the circumstances.
Our investigator directed PayPal to refund Mr T for the tickets. Mr T agreed with this view, 
but PayPal did not. In summary, it said that it is not responsible for the failings of any third 
party company such as the Agent  and all actions it took were in line with PayPals agreed 
terms of use.
The matter was passed to me to consider. I clarified some of my thinking on the proposed 
redress with PayPal and Mr T, after which PayPal made an offer to settle the case which 
Mr T did not accept. So the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Buyer Protection Policy (BPP)
PayPal says it considered and rejected the matter under its own BPP. Because I think this 
complaint should be upheld on the basis of Section 75 I dont consider it necessary to go into 
great detail about whether the refund should have been made via the BPP. However, from 
the information I have seen it appears that Mr T would not be eligible for a refund under the 
BPP in the particular circumstances as the service was still available to Mr T at the time he 
cancelled it.
Section 75
Section 75 allows Mr T to hold PayPal responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using the credit afforded here. 
However, there are certain technical criteria that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be 
valid. These criteria relate to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the transaction, 
or the way the payment was made. One of those is for a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement between the parties to the transaction.
Ive considered what PayPal has said about DCS, but I feel that this is too narrow a 
description of the position here. It isnt in dispute that Mr Ts payment went to the Agent and 
that he entered into a contractual relationship with it.
 
So rather, I think the position is that there is a valid DCS agreement between Mr T (the 
debtor here) and PayPal for the financing of purchases from the Agent. It follows that Mr T 
does have a Section 75 claim in respect of any misrepresentation or breach of contract by 
the Agent.
I have gone on to consider the actions of the Agent here in order to decide whether PayPals 
response to the claim has been fair and reasonable. The terms and conditions from the 
Agent relating specifically to Mr Ts transaction have been difficult to obtain. However, the 
information online does suggest that the Agent will take an active role in the cancellation 
process by requesting any applicable refund from the airline, and then refunding it to the 
customer in line with the airlines refund policy.
I have also looked at the terms and conditions of the airline which indicate that certain fares 
are fully refundable on cancellation. From the booking information we have it is unclear what 
category Mr Ts ticket falls into. However, the email from the Agent dated 12 February 2020 
categorically states that his ticket is eligible for a full refund should he confirm he wishes to 
cancel (which he promptly does). Furthermore, this email reaffirms the active role the Agent 
takes in the cancellation process as it goes on to ask Mr T to confirm to it that he would like 
to cancel and get a full refund so that it can process said refund. 
Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that Mr T was eligible for a full refund and that as part 
of the service he paid for, the Agent had contractually agreed to arrange said refund. It 
follows that by failing to do this it has breached its contract with Mr T.Despite what PayPal has said, Section 75 does make it liable for the failings of a third party 
in certain circumstances. In this case, because I consider the Agent has breached its 
contract with Mr T, and with Section 75 in mind, it is fair and reasonable that it refunds him 
for the tickets. I can also see that PayPal initially considered and declined his claim on the 
19 February 20. So I think it also fair that it pay 8% yearly simple interest on the refund 
calculated from the date it declined the claim to the date of settlement. 
Customer service
I can see that Mr T is very unhappy with the way PayPal handled his claim including what he 
says was a lack of assistance from customer service and unfulfilled promises to contact him. 
I have looked at the customer service he received. I think some things that happened could 
have been better handled. For example, although Mr T got an initial response to his claim 
about a week after contacting PayPal,  it didnt appear to consider the position under Section 
75 until several weeks later and with further prompting.  
I acknowledge the frustration caused, and I have also considered the unprecedented 
circumstances at the time of the global pandemic which presented a significant operational 
challenge for businesses and likely contributed to responses which did not appear to be as 
tailored or timely as Mr T would have expected. Overall, with this in mind, while some things 
could have gone better I dont think there is enough to warrant an additional award here.  
Putting things right
As I have said above  with Section 75 in mind I think it fair that Mr T gets a full refund for 
the ticket plus an award of interest from the date his claim was initially declined.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to refund Mr T the full 
ticket price of £630 plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from the 19 February 2020 until 
the date of settlement. 
If PayPal considers it necessary to deduct tax from the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mr T with a certificate of tax deduction so he may claim a refund from HMRC 
if applicable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman