DRN-3150683
The complaint
Ms P has complained about Amtrust Europe Limiteds (Amtrusts) decision to decline a claim 
she made for malicious damage to a property she let to a tenant.
What happened
Ms P made a claim for malicious damage in January 2021, caused by a tenant living in a 
property that she rented out. She was notified by her broker, who Ill call C, that the claim 
had been declined. The claim decision was confirmed directly by Amtrust in June 2021. 
The tenant was evicted by the police on 13 January 2021 and hadnt paid rent since March 
2020. Ms P says the tenant had previously kept the property in good order and had 
decorated it at her own expense. She felt that as the policy clearly stated she was covered 
for rent arrears and malicious damage, Amtrust should pay the claim.
Ms P complained to Amtrust about her claim for malicious damage being declined. Amtrust 
didnt uphold the complaint on the basis that an endorsement excluding malicious damage 
cover had been active on her policy from inception. 
Unhappy with Amtrusts response Ms P asked our Service to investigate her complaint. On 
25 June 2021 our investigator issued her view, not upholding the complaint. In summary she 
said that cover for malicious damage wasnt offered by the policy, and even if it had been, as 
the tenant was in arrears, the policy terms provided that no claim for malicious damage 
would be covered in those circumstances. 
Ms P didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that at the beginning of the Covid 
pandemic there was no malicious damage to the property. She added that the tenant 
couldnt be evicted by her due to Covid and her copy of the policy says she is covered for 
rent arrears. Ms P requested an ombudsmans decision on her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers set out what they will and wont cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be paid, 
the damage needs to be caused by something thats covered by the policy  an insured 
event. In this case, Miss Ps property was maliciously damaged by her tenant. So, Ive 
carefully considered the terms and conditions of Ms Ps policy to decide whether Amtrust 
have fairly considered her claim. The buildings section of the policy (section 1) says:
We will cover you against loss or damage to the property caused by an insured peril shown 
below..e. Malicious acts or vandalism.
However, the policy terms and conditions need to be read together with the insurance 
schedule, which explains which sections of cover have not been provided to the particular 
policyholder.
Amtrust have provided us with two versions of Ms Ps insurance schedule, and associated 
statements of fact, dated the morning and afternoon of 15 January 2021. The first schedule 
and statement of fact reflected the status of Ms Ps policy up to the point it was adjusted on 
that day. That statement of fact recorded that the tenants had been in rent arrears since 
March 2020 and the insurance certificate included an endorsement to say that malicious 
damage was not covered by the policy. 
The second schedule and statement of fact reflected the status of Ms Ps policy, after the 
tenants had been evicted. The endorsement regarding malicious damage not being covered 
by the policy was removed and there was a more detailed note added, regarding the eviction 
of the tenants. 
Having carefully looked at the policy terms and conditions that were in effect at the time the 
malicious damage was caused, together with the insurance schedule, Im satisfied that 
malicious damage was specifically excluded from the policy terms. Amtrust was therefore 
under no obligation to accept Ms Ps claim and acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Ms P has also said she believed her loss of rent should have been covered by the policy. 
Again, Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions to see what they say about cover for 
loss of rent. Section 2 of the terms and conditions set out the following details of cover 
provided for loss of rent: 
We will pay up to 20% of the buildings sum insured or a maximum of £25,000 (whichever is 
greater) for the loss of rent or alternative accommodation if the buildings become 
unoccupied or partly unoccupied, and cannot be let out as a result of an insured peril under 
Section 1  Property Damage 
However, as Ive explained, malicious damage is not covered by the policy in Section 1  so 
it follows that no loss of rent payment would be due to Ms P under the policy. I therefore 
conclude that Amtrust havent acted unfairly in not making any loss of rent payment to Ms P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 
14 January 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman