DRN-2671704
The complaint
Mr R complains that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans (Advancis) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr R was given a single loan by Advancis. He borrowed £7,500 in January 2018 and agreed 
to repay the loan in 60 monthly instalments. Mr Rs brother agreed to act as guarantor for the 
loan. I understand that a balance still remains outstanding on the loan and that Advancis has 
commenced proceedings to default the debt.
Mr Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Whilst she thought that the 
checks Advancis had done before agreeing the loan had been proportionate, she thought 
that the results of the checks indicated that Mr R was facing problems managing his money. 
So she didnt think Advancis should have agreed to give the loan to Mr R, and she asked the 
lender to pay him some compensation.
Advancis didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr R accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties. 
I have noted that, when making his complaint, Mr R asked that if the complaint were to be 
upheld, I should direct his guarantor be released from the agreement. This complaint only 
relates to the relationship between Mr R and Advancis. So I will not be making any findings 
in relation to whether the guarantor should have been added to the loan, or the guarantors 
ongoing relationship with Advancis. If the guarantor is unhappy with that relationship, that is 
something he will need to raise directly with Advancis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Rs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Advancis gave this loan to Mr R required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Advancis had to think about whether repaying 
the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr R. In practice 
this meant that Advancis had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr R 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Advancis to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
any repayments on Mr R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Advancis did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mr R.
Advancis gathered some information from Mr R before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It checked his credit file to assess how 
much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past. And it 
asked Mr R for copies of his bank statements so it could verify the income he said he was 
receiving. I will comment further on the bank statements Mr R provided later in this decision.
Mr R was entering into a significant commitment with Advancis. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that Advancis wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Rs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it set out were sufficient 
to achieve that aim. So I think the checks that Advancis did were proportionate.
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react 
appropriately to the results shown by those checks. That might lead a lender to ask further 
questions of a borrower. Or it might lead a lender to decline an application outright. And that 
is what I think should have happened here.
The credit check that Advancis performed showed that Mr R was facing serious problems 
managing his money. He had defaulted on a loan and a bank overdraft in the previous year. 
And he was more than four months behind on his repayments on a hire purchase 
agreement. He had also received a County Court Judgement on another debt just six 
months before. Mr R had also taken out another similar sized guarantor loan just a month 
before.
I have considered that Advancis identified all these problems as part of its checks and 
discussed them with Mr R. I have listened to recordings of the calls where Advancis asked 
Mr R for more information about his finances. I am not persuaded that the explanations Mr R 
gave to Advancis should have provided any reassurance about his financial stability.Mr R explained many of his debt problems as being in relation to the business of which he 
was the managing director. I think that in itself should have caused concerns to Advancis  
according to the credit check these debts were not in the name of the company, but the sole 
responsibility of Mr R. So should the company face problems in the future, Mr R would still 
be left needing to repay those debts. 
Mr R was asked on two different calls about the similar loan he had taken from another 
lender just a month before. That loan was also guaranteed by Mr Rs brother. Initially Mr R 
explained that the loan had been taken to help pay for some redecoration needed in 
anticipation of the birth of a child. But that was the explanation he later gave to Advancis for 
the loan he was requesting from that lender. And he then said that the previous loan had 
been used to pay for the maintenance of a company van, as well as providing some funds 
for Christmas presents as a time the company was facing a lull in its trading. I think the 
explanations lack plausibility, or at the very least should have raised concerns about the 
interconnection once more between Mr Rs finances and that of his company.
Advancis told Mr R that it needed to check his bank statements in order to verify the income 
he said he was receiving from the company. It has provided us with copies of the bank 
statements that Mr R supplied. I can see, from the account type, that this is actually a 
business account. So the income and expenditure that is shown on those statements relate 
to the company rather than Mr R himself. So I dont think Advancis could reasonably derive 
any confidence that the income shown on the bank statements represented income that was 
available to Mr R.
I dont think that Advancis ensured that the information Mr R provided, in response to its 
proportionate requests, provided a sufficient picture of his finances to give any confidence 
that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. And the results of the 
checks that Advancis did receive showed that Mr R was most likely facing serious problems 
managing his money. So I dont think that Advancis should have given this loan to Mr R, and 
it needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
I dont think that Advancis should have agreed to lend to Mr R in January 2018. I understand 
that there is still an outstanding balance on this loan. So Advancis should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments that have been made towards this loan as payments towards the capital 
if reworking Mr Rs loan account as Ive directed results in Mr R effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Advancis should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
if reworking the loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind Advancis that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr R
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Advancis to take off tax from this interest. Advancis 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Advancis Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman