DRN-3350889
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way in which Lloyds Bank PLC handled his application for a credit 
card.
What happened
Mr E wanted to apply online for a Lloyds Cashback card. Having completed and submitted 
the application, he was told that he had been successful in applying for a Platinum card, not 
a Cashback card. Although he was unhappy that he had been accepted for a different card 
from that which he had applied for, he decided to accept the Platinum card in any event. 
To complete the application, Mr E then needed to agree to and sign a hard copy of the 
account terms and conditions. He signed the necessary paperwork and returned it to the 
bank. It said however that it never received the documents and closed the application. 
Mr E complained to Lloyds. It addressed his complaint in two letters. In the first, it offered Mr 
E a total of £80 in compensation for the poor service he had received when making the 
online application. In the second, it said that, even though Mr E had shown he had sent the 
signed application, it did not follow that it had been received by the bank.
Mr E remained unhappy and referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint but thought that the banks offer was fair in the circumstances. Mr 
E did not accept that assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not clear why Mr E was unable to apply for the Cashback card and was instead offered a 
Platinum card. Lloyds says that it has not identified any wider issue with its systems and has 
suggested some changes that Mr E might make to his own computer settings, should he 
wish to make a new application. The bank also explained that Mr E could make an 
application in branch, should he wish to do so  although it acknowledged the inconvenience 
involved.
Lloyds says that it was unable to complete Mr Es application because it did not receive 
signed terms and conditions from him. I am satisfied however that he did return the 
necessary documents, since he has provided proof of postage. Whilst some post does go 
missing, most is correctly delivered, so I think it more likely than not that the documents were 
received but went missing or were destroyed while in the banks possession. The result is 
that, if Mr E still wants a credit card, he will need to start the application process again. 
I note however that Lloyds offered him £80 to resolve the matter - £65 in recognition of the 
inconvenience he has suffered and a further £15 to cover the cost of phone calls. It has said 
that the offer remains open for acceptance. In my view, that is reasonable compensation for 
the problems Mr E has faced. Even if I accept everything that Mr E has said about the 
background in this case, I think it unlikely that I would award more.    
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Es complaint. I simply leave it to him to decide whether, on reflection, he 
is prepared to accept the banks offer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman