DRN-3386387
The complaint
Mr A he complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made a mistake when setting up his Bounce 
Back Loan (BBL) and gave him the loan for the wrong business.
What happened
Mr A told us:
He is a sole trader and holds an account with the bank. He also has a limited 
company which Ill call C.
He applied for a BBL for C, but Barclays set it up in the name of his sole trader 
business in error. 
He put the limited company details on the application form, but not the right business 
name.
He asked Barclays to transfer the agreement into Cs name and initially the bank said 
it could do this, but then changed its mind.
Barclays error has caused him to go into arrears.
Barclays told us:
Mr A applied for a BBL as a sole trader and the loan was drawn down under his sole 
trader record shortly after.
There is no evidence to show that the bank agreed to transfer the loan to C, only that 
Mr A had made it aware that hed applied for a BBL for the wrong business. 
However, it has given Mr A the benefit of the doubt on this point and paid him £125 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by any misinformation he 
was given.
It is unable to transfer the BBL from Mr A to C as the agreement is legally binding 
and the debt belongs to Mr A.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the agreement terms 
said that the loan couldnt be transferred from the original borrower to another, so it was 
reasonable for Barclays not to do this. He had no reason to dispute what Mr A had said 
about being told he could transfer the BBL, but this was incorrect, and he thought the £125 
compensation paid by the bank was enough to put things right.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view. He said he only opened a business account 
with Barclays as he was told the BBL could be transferred, and if hed been given the correct 
information, he could have taken out a BBL for C elsewhere before the BBL Scheme ended. 
He said he couldnt afford to repay the BBL of such a high amount as a sole trader and didnt 
think £125 compensation was enough for the inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr A says that Barclays treated him unfairly as it told him he could transfer the BBL in the 
name of his sole trader business to his limited company, after he realised that hed made a 
mistake when the loan repayments became due. 
Ive looked at the application and whilst I can see that Mr A entered Cs company number on 
the form, the borrower name and account details are for Mr A, not C  as C didnt actually 
hold an account with the bank at the time. And although the business address is also for C, I 
dont think the bank would have had any reason to question whether it was also the address 
for Mr As sole trader business.   
Ive also looked at the agreement letter and I havent seen any mention of C throughout the 
document, only Mr As name. And as Mr A signed the agreement to say the information 
within it, which formed the basis of the BBL was correct, I cant reasonably say that Barclays 
made a mistake in providing a BBL to the business whose account information had been 
provided as the borrower.  
The terms of the BBL say that it is in certain circumstances possible for the loan to be 
transferred, so Barclays didnt make an error, if it did indeed tell Mr A this. However, the 
error occurred when Mr A says he was led to believe that his loan could be transferred to C. 
But even if the bank did say this to Mr A, this was incorrect, and therefore the bank isnt 
bound to take this action. So it follows that I dont think it was unreasonable for the bank not 
to transfer the loan from Mr A to C. 
Based on all the evidence available, I think the bank has done enough to put things right 
here by apologising and paying Mr A £125 compensation for the inconvenience caused. I 
acknowledge Mr As comments that he could have applied for a BBL elsewhere for C and 
returned the funds which hed borrowed as a sole trader. And therefore the misinformation 
from Barclays meant he was disadvantaged and left repaying the BBL which hed used for 
C. However, there was no guarantee that any application made by C would have been 
successful.
I say this because, although the BBL Scheme was a government backed scheme, lenders 
had some discretion to decide how they would accept applications, both from new and 
existing customers. There were also checks a borrower would be subject to when applying 
for a loan from any lender including, customer fraud, Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your 
Customer checks. 
Mr A also says that the monthly payments hes had to make on the BBL made him go into 
arrears, and that he only used the funds to pay for salaries and goods for C. However, I can 
see from Barclays records that when Mr A contacted the bank about the BBL being the 
wrong business name in August 2021, he said he was already in arrears. The terms of the 
BBL Scheme were such that there was a twelve-month interest free period from when the 
loan was taken out. As Mr A didnt sign the BBL agreement until September 2020, the loan 
repayments wouldnt have started at that point and as the bank didnt do anything wrong 
when it gave Mr A the BBL, I cant reasonably hold it responsible for the arrears.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr As comments that he used the BBL funds to support C, that isnt something that I can reasonably hold the bank responsible for. Mr A signed the BBL 
agreement to say that only the borrower would use the funds from the loan agreement, so 
the obligation was on him here to use those funds appropriately. 
Mr A has also told us that he is struggling to make the repayments and that he is in financial 
difficulty. I can see that he has made Barclays aware of this and from the banks case notes 
that it has put measures in place to support him which is what wed expect from a 
responsible lender. 
I acknowledge Mr A feels strongly about this, and hell be disappointed with my decision. But 
Barclays have agreed with Mr A that he was given incorrect information about transferring 
the loan from the sole trader business to C. The bank has apologised and paid Mr A £125 
compensation which I feel is reasonable, so I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman