DRN-1834727
The complaint
Ms G complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) have withdrawn further funding for 
her legal expenses insurance (LEI) claim. 
Where I refer to IPA, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill 
only provide a summary of some of the key events here.
Around seven years ago Ms G had cavity wall insulation installed at her home by a company 
Ill refer to as C. Ms G was in dispute with C. She says her home had become damp as a 
result of their work, which caused damage and impacted on her health. 
Ms G made a claim to IPA for legal assistance to pursue her dispute with C. The claim was 
accepted, and various solicitors were appointed to act for Ms G under the policy. The legal 
case progressed but ultimately C went out of business. So, the focus of the legal action 
changed to another firm G who provide the guarantee that came with the insulation. 
One of the solicitors involved F were appointed between 2016 and 2017. In 2018 Ms G 
asked IPA not to pay Fs invoice as she was in dispute in them. She felt they had acted 
negligently. Initially IPA followed Ms Gs instructions, but when it became apparent that Ms G 
might personally be pursued for the outstanding costs, IPA referred the matter to a costs 
assessor and then settled the majority of Fs fees. Ms G feels this is part of the reason that 
she no longer has enough indemnity to continue her claim. In April 2019 a further firm of 
solicitors, S, were appointed to deal with the claim. 
IPA said that the legal action against G would in effect be part of the same insurance claim 
as the work that had already been done towards pursuing C. They highlighted part of the 
policy terms to support their decision. 
In September 2019 S advised that the value of Ms Gs claim was £27,000. IPA pointed out 
that they had already agreed costs of over £36,000 for Ms Gs claim. On this basis, they 
deemed it disproportionate to offer any further funding.
Ms G complained, she was unhappy with IPAs decision to withdraw funding. She says that 
without further funding she is in an impossible position where she cant afford to continue the 
legal action or do the necessary repairs. IPA reiterated their position that this should all be 
part of one claim. They also explained that it wasnt proportionate to spend more on legal 
costs than Ms G stood to gain if successful. Particularly when there is always some risk that 
litigation might be unsuccessful and there is no guarantee that any costs incurred would be 
recovered. 
Ms G referred the matter to our service, one of our investigators sympathised with Ms Gs 
position. But she didnt think IPA had acted unfairly and didnt recommend that the complaint 
be upheld. Ms G disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I know 
this will be disappointing and Im mindful of the impact the underlying dispute is having on 
Ms G and her health. But I can only consider whether IPA have acted in line with the terms 
of the policy and fairly. And because I think they have, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell them 
they need to do more. Let me explain.
Ms Gs policy provides cover up to the maximum limit (which in this case is £50,000) where 
The insured incident takes place in the insured period and within the territorial limits. The 
phrase insured incident is given a specific definition in the policy of: The incident or the first 
of a series of incidents which may lead to a claim under this insurance. Only one insured 
incident shall be deemed to have arisen from all causes of action, incidents or events that 
are related by cause or time. 
I accept that there have been two different prospective respondents to Ms Gs litigation. C 
who did the installation in the first place and G who provide the guarantee. But I dont think 
that IPA acted unfairly when deciding that this would be one claim (with one limit of 
indemnity). This is because both claims arose from the same insured incident, that being the 
installation of the cavity wall insulation. 
The starting point here is therefore that there was up to £50,000 available to pay legal costs 
for Ms G to pursue a resolution, but importantly, this would be subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy being met. IPA have highlighted a further part of the policy which 
says there is no cover where An estimate of the advisers costs of acting for you is more 
than the amount in dispute. 
This is a common term in this type of insurance and I dont think it is inherently unfair. A 
privately paying client wouldnt generally want to spend more on legal action than they stood 
to gain if successful. So, I dont think an insurer should have to either. 
At the point at which further cover was withdrawn, IPA had already agreed funding of around 
£36,000. And S valued her claim at £27,000. So this isnt a case where an estimate of 
advisers costs were more than the value of the dispute, the costs already incurred were 
more than the amount in dispute. In these circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for IPA to 
refuse further funding. 
I appreciate the very difficult position this puts Ms G in. But part of the reason for the costs 
being at this level was because legal action had in effect been started against two different 
parties. C going out of business isnt something Ms G is responsible for, but as our 
investigator pointed out, neither was it IPAs fault. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell them to 
pay more for that reason. 
I appreciate Ms G feels that IPA have mismanaged the claim resulting in the limit of 
indemnity being exhausted sooner than it ought to have been. But it isnt in IPAs interests to 
pay solicitors more than they have to. Its also common for costs to be carefully assessed to 
ensure they are in line with both the agreement between the solicitor and the insurer as well 
as the terms and conditions of the policy.Ms G specifically mentioned the costs paid to F. She had asked IPA not to pay them. IPA 
say they appointed a costs assessor to ensure the costs F claimed for were in line with the 
policy terms. They also point out that had they not paid these costs, F said they would 
pursue Ms G personally for any outstanding amount. 
In these circumstances, I dont think it was wrong for IPA to settle those costs and to take 
them into consideration when assessing the proportionality of providing further funding. And 
whilst I appreciate the impact of this on the remaining amount of indemnity, it was preferable 
to Ms G being held personally liable for these costs. I understand Ms G has complained to 
the Legal Ombudsman about F. If the Legal Ombudsman directs that a meaningful amount 
of the fees paid to F by IPA are to be returned, Id expect IPA to reconsider the impact of this 
on the proportionality of progressing Ms Gs claim. But given the fees already paid are 
significantly above the value of the claim, I dont think this is likely to assist Ms G.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think IPA have acted outside the terms of the 
policy or unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman