DRN-3472706
The complaint
Mr L complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct (HSBC) for decisions the 
business has made which made it harder for him to access information on his account. He 
wants HSBC to give him details of when mini statements will be available to him. 
What happened
Mr L banks with HSBC trading as First Direct. 
He has previously accessed an ATM in the foyer of an HSBC branch out of normal banking 
hours and he obtained a mini statement. He found this the most manageable way for him to 
manage his finances. 
HSBC removed the ATM from the foyer and brought it inside the branch. This 
inconvenienced Mr L as he was no longer able to get a mini statement outside of branch 
hours. 
Later, HSBC changed card provider to Mastercard and issued Mr L with a new card. 
He tried to use his new card in the ATM in branch and, due to the change in card 
technology, was no longer able to get a mini statement. 
Mr L complained to HSBC. He wanted to know when he would be able to get mini 
statements again and he felt that he was being discriminated against as an older person for 
wanting to manage his account using paper methods, rather than telephone or online 
banking. 
HSBC responded to him not upholding his complaint. HSBC offered to send him more 
frequent paper statements, and advised that work was underway to restore access to mini 
statements at ATMs, but that it could not give him a deadline for when this would be 
completed. HSBC advised Mr L that he could use telephone banking, online banking, or 
banking through its app in the interim. 
Mr L was not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. Whilst he 
sympathised with the difficulties Mr L had experiences, he explained that we are not able to 
dictate the way businesses should carry out their business, and that we could not direct 
HSBC to restore the mini statement functionality. 
Mr L did not accept that view, and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the strength of Mr Ls feelings about this matter and he has made clear that the 
changes HSBC has made to the way it does business have impacted him and his ability to 
manage his finances. 
I do, however, agree with my colleagues view, and I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Businesses are able to make choices about the best way for them to carry on their business 
and these may change over time as the way consumers use banks changes. 
Business decisions such as to reduce counter services, or change branch hours, may affect 
some customers more than others but this does not necessarily make the change unfair. We 
would expect businesses to try to mitigate the impact on customers from any change, where 
they are aware that there is a difficulty, but it is not necessarily possible for all consumer 
needs to be met. 
In this case, HSBC made the decision to remove the ATM back from the foyer area to the 
branch itself. I appreciate that this caused Mr L inconvenience, but HSBC was entitled to 
decide to make this change. I think it acted reasonably in trying to mitigate the effect on Mr L 
by offering more frequent paper statements and alerting him to the alternative ways of 
accessing his account information. The fact that these have not worked for Mr L does not 
make the options unreasonable. 
Similarly, HSBC was entitled to make the business decision to change card issuer. This did 
change the functionality of cards in ATMs, and HSBC is seeking to reinstate the option to 
access mini statements. In the meantime, Mr L is not able to use his account in the way he 
wants. 
Mr L is unhappy that HSBC will not give him a time scale for this work to be completed. 
HSBC has said it cannot give this information and I do not think that is unreasonable. 
System changes are complicated and can be sensitive and I would not expect a business to 
explain its business projects to consumers as the project is ongoing. 
HSBC has tried to offer alternatives to Mr L so that he can access account information until 
the functionality is restored. I think that the alternatives offered were reasonable, and that 
they could work for Mr L. 
I do not agree that Mr L is being discriminated against here, as reasonable options have 
been offered. He is of course not obliged to use any of those options, but it is then a matter 
for him whether he wishes to look for an alternative bank that offers the functionality he 
requires.
Consequently, whilst I understand Mr L will be disappointed by this decision, I do not uphold 
his complaint and I do not ask HSBC Bank UK Plc to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold his complaint and I do not ask HSBC Bank UK 
Plc to do anything further.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman