DRN-1597191
 
The complaint
Mr A complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called PDL 
Finance Limited, trading at the time as Mr Lender. Mr A says he was lent to irresponsibly 
and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Mr A took out 4 loans from Mr Lender between September 2013 and April 
2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr As borrowing with Mr Lender, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
in respect of loan number 2 only. Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so its 
come to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr As complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
A could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have 
taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the re-payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr A 
could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Bearing in mind what Ive said above about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
financial checks which Mr Lender probably carried out initially would have been quite basic 
ones. For loan number 1, I think these levels of checks, together with the income and 
expenditure details provided by Mr A himself, would have made this particular loan appear 
affordable. I therefore dont uphold this part of his complaint.
However, I think at the point of loan 2, Mr Lender should have been taking account of Mr As 
income and its suitability with the type of loan he was being given. He wasnt on a high 
income by any means and the loan required one single instalment of £675. This represented 
a substantial part of Mr As declared income and so dont it was payable without the undue 
difficulties Ive mentioned above. Being required to pay such a high level of his monthly pay 
back in a (single) payday loan would have, in my view, contributed to financial difficulties for 
him. I dont think he should have been given that type loan; it was irresponsible to do so.
I note there was then a large gap in time (several years) before Mr A asked for loan numbers 
3 and 4. And because of that gap, I think its appropriate to consider these loans as new 
lending. I therefore revert back to saying that relatively basic financial checks might be 
proportionate, because the lending relationship had re-started again. But I also note both 
these loans were for longer periods and so even though loan 4, for example, was for the 
largest amount yet, it was payable over 12 months. The monthly repayments were therefore 
more manageable for Mr A.
Its therefore my finding that only loan number 2 should be upheld. It represented a very high 
proportion of his income. Loans 1, 3 and 4 all have individual aspects about them which I 
think enabled Mr A to more sustainably pay them back.Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr A, Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information Mr Lender has recorded on Mr As credit file in 
relation to loan 2;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr A a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr As complaint and I direct PDL Finance Limited, trading as it was as Mr 
Lender, to put things right for Mr A as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 
Appendix:
Taken Out Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 30/09/2013 31/10/2013 1 £350.00 £472.50
2 31/10/2013 29/08/2014 1 £500.00 £675.00
3 21/01/2018 06/03/2018 3 £200.00 £127.46
4 05/04/2018 30/08/2019 12 £1,000.00 £211.05
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman