DRN-3781886
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt do enough to protect him when he fell 
victim to a scam and hasnt reimbursed his losses.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
However, following informal attempts to resolve matters, Mr H (via his representative) has 
agreed that theres only one matter left for me to decide. So, this decision will focus on 
whether Lloyds ought to have done more to prevent Mr Hs loss concerning his interaction 
with a firm Ill call P. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute 
that Mr H authorised the disputed payments made using debit and credit cards. So 
the starting position  in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017  is that 
hes liable for these payments.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant law, regulations and good industry practice  ought to have identified a fraud 
risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction 
before processing a payment. If Lloyds failed to do so, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss it ought reasonably to have prevented, it might be fair to hold it liable.
Ive considered whether Lloyds ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments. And I note that it did  Lloyds stopped Mr Hs initial payment 
towards this scam. It sent him a text message to check it was him making the 
payment, which he confirmed it was. While the payment in question was a low value 
payment which was being made to what appears to have been a legitimate 
cryptocurrency provider, Lloyds said it was stopped because of fraud concerns 
surrounding the purchase of cryptocurrency. However, Im not satisfied the 
intervention here was sufficient. Its intervention only went as far as to check that 
Mr H had authorised the payment, though its not uncommon for victims of scams to 
do so. I would have expected it to have appropriately questioned the payment 
beyond a text message. Had it done so, its likely Mr H would have revealed things 
such as the use of Team Viewer  a common hallmark of a scam. 
But, while Lloyds intervention wasnt sufficient, I do have to consider whether an 
appropriate intervention would have likely made a difference. It wouldnt be fair to 
hold Lloyds liable for Mr Hs losses if I dont think it would have stopped Mr H from 
going ahead with the payments anyway. 
Having thought carefully about this, Im not persuaded that appropriate intervention 
by Lloyds wouldve stopped Mr H from making payments towards the scam. I say this 
having listened to calls between Mr H and Lloyds from 14 December 2020  after 
hed successfully made a total of three payments towards the scam. Within these 
calls, Mr H confidently expressed that hed been the victim of a scam and couldnt 
believe that hed fallen for it. He also explained that hed been waiting on the phone 
for around two hours to be able to speak to the relevant team at Lloyds. It was very 
clear from this interaction that Mr H was completely convinced hed been scammed. 
And he also reported the matter to Action Fraud on the same day. But despite how 
certain he appeared to be, he made a further payment towards the scam around two 
days later, believing it to be the final hurdle. 
When Mr H was asked why he made payments after hed raised concerns, he 
responded to say that, despite his concerns, he continued to make payments as he 
was manipulated and coerced by the scammer. He was advised to look at his profits 
and see how much hed made which persuaded him to continue. I acknowledge that 
Mr H ultimately stopped making payments following an intervention from another 
bank. However, I cant overlook that Mr H made a further payment so soon after 
being entirely convinced hed been the victim of a scam. So, in the circumstances of 
this case, despite failings on Lloyds part, I conclude that there isnt sufficient 
evidence to support that Mr H would have stopped making payments following an 
appropriate intervention.
Id just like to address a further point Mr H raised. He said that Lloyds had been put 
on notice that hed fallen victim to a scam but still allowed further payments to be 
made. I note that the additional payment was made using an alternative account 
Mr H held with Lloyds  his credit card account  and it was also made to a different 
merchant. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Lloyds to have identified 
the potential fraud risk here, especially when I consider the full details of that 
payment, such as the amount, which wasnt significantly unusual or out of character.
For completeness, Ill just reference here that Mr H has accepted our Services 
stance around the potential of recovering the money through a Section 75 or 
chargeback claim, in that neither of these would have likely resulted in recovery of 
the funds. So I wouldnt expect Lloyds to have taken further action here.  
So, while I know this will be hugely disappointing to Mr H, and Im very sorry hes lost such a 
large amount of money, I wont be upholding this complaint for the reasons given above. To 
conclude, whilst I accept Lloyds ought to have done more by way of an intervention, I dont 
think it ultimately would have made a difference to Mr Hs decision to make further payments 
to the scammer. So, I dont hold Lloyds responsible for Mr Hs losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman