DRN-3154228
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a single trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes on 10 
September 2020 for a holiday which was due to take place from 3 June until 17 June 2021. 
Mr and Mrs A paid a total of £288.71 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the 
standard level of travel insurance cover, which also covered Mrs A for a number of declared 
medical conditions. 
On 5 May 2021, Mr and Mrs A contacted Great Lakes to explain that they were unable to 
travel to their intended holiday destination due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They requested an 
extension of their policy until mid-December 2021 but Great Lakes explained that it could 
only extend a policy to a date that was within 12 months of the policy purchase date. And 
when Mr and Mrs A requested a refund of their premiums Great Lakes stated a refund 
couldnt be provided as their 14 day cooling off period had expired.
Mr and Mrs A werent happy with what Great Lakes had told them and complained. But 
Great Lakes didnt think it had made an error and it therefore didnt uphold Mr and Mrs As 
complaint. 
Being dissatisfied with Great Lakes response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs A referred it to 
our service. Our investigator looked into this complaint and set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 10 
September 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
Our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
But they thought Great Lakes response to Mr and Mrs As complaint was fair and 
reasonable. So, they didnt recommended upholding this complaint.
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr and Mrs A 
disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint. Ive therefore been asked to decide 
what is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions state: 
You have the right to cancel up to 14 days from the date you receive:
The policy document at the start of your insurance;
The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should you decide to exercise this cancellation right, you will be entitled to a refund of 
premium provided that you have not started a trip to which the insurance applies and you 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of your 14 day cancellation period you continue to have the right to 
cancel your policy at any time during its term by contacting us, but no refund of premium will 
be available.
Are Mr and Mrs A entitled to a full refund of the premium?  
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs A to receive a refund of the premiums 
they paid because: 
Cover under Mr and Mrs As policy commenced immediately once it had been 
purchased, which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate they received. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs A were reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to 
their policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance 
policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable.
Mr and Mrs A werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great 
Lakes also covered them for cancellation cover from 10 September 2020. So, the 
premium they paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any 
of a number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mrs A 
falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition.
There was just over a month remaining on Mr and Mrs As travel policy from the date 
they contacted Great Lakes to request a policy extension and refund to the date their 
policy was due to expire. So, they benefitted from the cover the policy afforded them 
for the majority of the time it was in force. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period. 
Ive taken into account the relevant industry guidance and what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of the complaint, including the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And Ive also considered that Mr and Mrs A 
took out their policy at a time when the impact of the pandemic was ongoing and 
there was ongoing travel disruption. Whilst in some circumstances we may have 
directed a refund I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to do so here due to the 
date of purchase.Based on the available evidence, there arent any exceptional circumstances that 
persuade me that Great Lakes should issue a refund here. So, Im not going to direct 
it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman