DRN-3176990
The complaint
 Mr H complained about Currencies Direct Ltd. Hes unhappy with the way the business 
conducted its anti money laundering checks.
Mr H wanted:
- an apology;
- significant compensation as a goodwill gesture;
- confirmation that its staff will not behave in offensive and oppressive ways in future; 
and 
- assurance that his account has been correctly set up so there wont be problems with 
future money transfers. 
 
What happened
In summer 2020, Mr H was transferred to Currencies Direct from his existing service 
provider, as part of a bulk transfer.
On 10 November 2020, Mr H emailed Currencies Direct. He said that in a few weeks time 
he would wish to transfer £10,000 to £12,000 from the UK to his account in a European 
country. As it would be a large sum, he wanted to check that everything was in order. Mr H 
said what hed done, and received a reply the same day from the client account manager, 
which said:
"This will be able to be booked on our online platform. Great youve added these details in. 
Everything looks set up correctly."
On 1 March 2021, Mr H initiated a transfer as a test, before carrying out a larger transfer. He 
received confirmation. The next day, the client account manager rang Mr H and asked for 
confirmation of his email address, a copy of photographic identification, and a utility bill 
showing his home address. This was followed up by an email request.
The next day, 3 March, Mr H received an automated email which said I just wanted to thank 
you for using . Currency Service for your recent transfer Log into your account if you 
would like to  make another transfer. So he thought the transfer had gone through. 
But two days later, he received another email which said "Thank you for sending this to us 
and it was all accepted. Could you finally please confirm your
occupation?"  Mr H didnt see the relevance of this, so he ignored the email. 
On 11 March, the client account manager rang him. She said it needed Mr Hs occupation 
because of Brexit, which she confirmed in writing. She said that if he didnt provide it, 
Currencies Direct wouldnt carry out any more transfers for him. 
Mr H asked the client account manager to provide him with documentary proof that Brexit 
meant he had to provide Currencies Direct with his occupation.
The client account manager repeated that occupation was required because of Brexit. She 
said the organisation which had transferred Mr Hs account to Currencies Direct hadnt 
provided this information, so it wanted it as part of its anti-money laundering policies.
Mr H said he understood anti-money laundering, but he couldnt see why that meant his 
occupation was required. And he pointed out that hed previously checked that Currencies 
Direct had everything it needed on his account  and the test transfer had gone through too, 
before the extra information was requested. He complained.
Currencies Directs final response letter said that as it was regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), it needed to carry out security checks on all clients and their 
payments, to ensure compliance with money laundering and terrorist financing regulations 
2017, as well as its own internal policies and procedures, and UK Home Office guidance. It 
said that it did require Mr Hs occupation under these regulations. And it said requests for 
extra information could be made at any point, not just when the account was initially 
registered. Currencies Direct said that if Mr H didnt provide the information requested, it 
might not be able to provide him with services. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied. He replied to Currencies Direct saying hed searched the government 
guidance on money laundering and could find no reference to an occupation requirement. 
He complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She asked Currencies Direct why it had 
asked for Mr Hs occupation, and it had said that it was required to carry out checks under 
the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and  Transfer of Funds (Information on the 
Payer) Regulations 2017, and industry approved guidance such as the Joint Money 
Laundering Steering Group (JMLSG). She referred Mr H to chapters 5.3.24 and 5.5.6 of the 
latter guidance.
The investigator also noted that Mr H had referred to HMRC guidance, and she said that 
although Currencies Direct wasnt regulated by HMRC, there was a reference to due 
diligence which included that an organisation might need to obtain details of a customers 
business or employment.
Also, section 32.2 of Currencies Directs terms and conditions said that it could on occasion 
ask for extra information before carrying out a payment. So it had correctly refused it, under 
clause 16.1(d)(i) of those terms and conditions.
Mr H wasnt satisfied. He pointed out that:
- the guidance said firms are sometimes required to verify the occupation, and it 
wasnt compulsory;
- Currencies Direct had confirmed his account had been correctly set up, before asking 
for this extra information;
- It had only asked for the extra information after hed initiated a transaction, and that 
transaction had already been completed when Currencies Direct then asked for the 
occupation information.
So Mr H said that if the occupation information was compulsory, Currencies Direct had 
broken the standards three times. He said that the requirement to provide his occupation 
wasnt a requirement, but some internal data gathering exercise of Currencies Directs own 
making  which he had the right not to provide. He said that the problem was a matter of 
incompetence, covered up by deceit, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I divided this complaint into two parts  whether Currencies Direct had the right to require Mr 
H to provide his occupation, and the customer service provided to Mr H.
Whether Currencies Direct had the right to require Mr H to tell it what his occupation was 
Technically, Currencies Direct had the right to require Mr H to provide information about his 
occupation. This isnt to say that the regulations say that its compulsory for all firms to obtain 
information about a customers occupation. Circumstances vary, and there isnt a set list of 
what companies must and must not obtain from customers. But fundamentally and in 
general terms, companies have a responsibility to obtain information to satisfy their 
obligations under the relevant law and rules and also satisfy themselves that they have 
minimised risk.
The regulations, guidance, policies and terms and conditions governing anti money 
laundering include:
- The Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on 
the Payer) Regulations 2017;
- industry approved guidance such as the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group 
(JMLSG);
- Currencies Directs terms and conditions.
Looking at the JMLSG, for example, chapters 5.3.24 and 5.5.6 set out:
5.3.24 
-Depending on the firms risk assessment of the situation, carried out in accordance 
with the guidance set out in Chapter 4, information that might be relevant may 
include some or all of the following: 
-nature and details of the business/occupation/employment; 
-record of changes of address; 
-the expected source and origin of the funds to be used in the relationship; 
-the origin of the initial and ongoing source(s) of wealth and funds (particularly within a 
private banking or wealth management relationship); 
-copies of recent and current financial statements; 
-the various relationships between signatories and with underlying beneficial owners; 
-the anticipated level and nature of the activity that is to be undertaken through the 
relationship. 

5.5.6 When someone becomes a new customer, or applies for a new product or service, or 
where there are indications that the risk associated with an existing business relationship 
might have increased, the firm should, depending on the nature of the product or service for 
which they are applying, request information as to the customers residential status, 
employment and salary details, and other sources of income or wealth (e.g., inheritance, 
divorce settlement, property sale), in order to decide whether to accept the application or 
continue with the relationship.
As Ive said, these dont say that providing information about occupation is compulsory in all 
circumstances. But they are indicators that it can be a factor for organisations to consider. 
So in my provisional decision I said that I didnt consider that Currencies Direct acted wrongly in requiring the additional information, including photographic ID, proof of address, 
and occupation, in order to minimise risk under money laundering precautions.
Customer service provided to Mr H
The fact that Currencies Direct did have the right to ask Mr H for information about his 
occupation is, however, only part of the issue here. I went on to consider the way Currencies 
Direct handled this matter.
Mr H took the precaution of checking in November 2020 whether the account had been 
correctly set up. As Ive set out above, Currencies Direct replied that Everything looks set 
up correctly. 
So I considered it was understandable that Mr H would have thought that the basic security 
checks had been satisfactorily concluded as part of the transfer from the previous provider. 
When Mr H decided to carry out his first transfer, a few months later, the information he 
received was conflicting. I considered it was reasonable for Mr H to have concluded from the 
wording of the 3 March automated acknowledgement that the transfer had gone through. 
But this was then contradicted by a request for photographic and address ID. Mr H provided 
these promptly, and again received an automated confirmation of the transfer. 
I thought it was reasonable that Mr H would have thought this really was all he needed to 
provide. But he was then asked what his occupation was. 
While I accepted, as Ive set out above, that Currencies Direct had the right to ask for more 
information, I couldnt see why it didnt ask for all the general security information, such as 
photographic and address ID, and occupation if it needed it, in November 2020  or at the 
latest when it received Mr Hs transfer request on 1 March 2021.  I saw nothing to indicate 
either that policies, or Mr Hs account, had changed between November and March which 
would require additional information which hadnt been required at the start. 
I thought it was unlikely that this complaint would have escalated in the way it did, if 
Currencies Direct had asked Mr H what his occupation was, and had asked for photographic 
and address identification, in November 2020, shortly after the bulk transfer from the former 
provider. 
I also thought the complaint wouldnt have escalated in the way it did, if Currencies Direct 
had given more reasoned, fuller replies than it did  for example explaining what it had and 
hadnt received from the predecessor organisation; why information that Mr H thought was 
irrelevant, such as job title, was actually needed; why it had told Mr H the account had been 
set up correctly in November 2020 when it hadnt; and why it confirmed the transfer had 
been accepted when it hadnt.
Repeatedly asking for extra information without explanation was bound to cause frustration, 
and I could see why Mr H might have had the suspicion that Currencies Direct wasnt 
competent. Photographic and address ID is pretty standard, and it wouldnt have been 
surprising if this had been requested when the account was first transferred from the 
previous provider, if the information hadnt been transferred as part of the bulk transfer 
information. But in any case, I thought it was quite likely that knowing Mr Hs job title, if he 
had one, wouldnt have been the end of the requests for more information  because a job 
title only provides so much information about someone and doesnt give details of the source 
of a customers income, or whether its legitimate or fraudulent. I also found that Currencies Direct compounded the frustration by telling Mr H that it was 
because of Brexit  which it later changed to because of money laundering. That looks 
inconsistent, as there are no links between Brexit and Currencies Direct needing Mr Hs 
occupation, as far as Im aware. And even if there are, Currencies Direct should have been 
sufficiently courteous to Mr H to provide him with a clear and detailed explanation, not just 
its because of Brexit.
So although Currencies Direct was within its rights to require security information from Mr H, 
I considered its handling and customer service was poor. This caused Mr H repeated 
frustration, and inconvenience including having to research the regulatory framework, as well 
as the delays to his payment. So my provisional decision was that I intended to order that it 
should pay Mr H £250 compensation for the frustration and upset caused by its poor 
customer service.
Other matters
Finally, I noted that as well as compensation, Mr H asked for an apology, confirmation that 
Currencies Directs staff wont behave in offensive and oppressive ways in future; and an 
assurance that his account has been correctly set up so there wont be problems with future 
money transfers. 
Apologies which are ordered are rarely sincere, so I wasnt persuaded that this would be 
useful. In relation to the other issues, I hadnt seen evidence that Currencies Directs staff 
were offensive and oppressive  even when I disagreed with the standard of customer 
service they provided. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr H and Currencies Direct accepted my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having reconsidered all the available evidence, I consider that the conclusions in my 
provisional decision were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I do not uphold the complaint regarding Currencies Directs right to require further 
information. 
I uphold the complaint about Currencies Directs handling of its requests for more 
information, and I order it to pay Mr H £250 for poor customer service.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Belinda KnightOmbudsman