DRN-2798247
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about RAC Insurance Limiteds service after they claimed 
on their European motoring assistance policy.
Mr Ms taken the lead in bringing this complaint, so, where I refer to Mr M alone that should 
be read as being in respect of both himself and Mrs M.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were abroad and heading towards the ferry to bring them home when their car 
developed a fault. The car was running but would go into limp mode and lose power. Mr M 
thought the fault was with a brake switch which he believed would require a simple repair. 
Mr M phoned RAC for help and it sent someone out. RACs agent then took the car to a 
garage branded in the name of his cars manufacturer. The garage told Mr and Mrs M their 
car might require a new engine. Mr M wasn't happy with the garages preliminary diagnosis 
and contacted RAC. It told him that as it was the weekend they didn't have any technical 
staff available to discuss the matter with the garage. RAC said it would put Mr and Mrs M up 
in a hotel until Monday. 
Mr M wanted RAC to bring his car home. But it said it couldnt do that under the terms of the 
policy without a full diagnosis of the cars problem. And the garage said that would require 
the engine to be stripped, which Mr M would have to pay for. He was told that could cost 
upwards of €2,000. 
Mr and Mrs M were also unhappy with the hotel RAC had arranged for them. Eventually, 
Mr and Mrs M decided to drive the car to the ferry in the condition it was in. Theyve said that 
since they've been home the cars fault hasn't reoccurred.
Mr and Mrs M complained to RAC. RAC acknowledged that it didn't get everything right. In 
particular it said it should have offered Mr and Mrs M a hire car while they were staying at 
the hotel. In order to put things right it offered Mr and Mrs M free European breakdown cover 
for a year, which would otherwise have cost £96.04. 
Mr and Mrs M didn't accept RACs offer and brought their complaint to us. One of our  
investigators looked into it. He thought RAC had done enough to put things right. He also 
clarified that we are only allowed to look at the service that RAC provided in terms of Mr and 
Mrs Ms European cover. So we couldn't look at any complaints Mr and Mrs M might have 
about the service it provided under the terms of their UK breakdown policy. Thats because 
complaints about that policy are outside of our jurisdiction.
Mr and Mrs M didn't agree with our investigators assessment of their complaint so it's been 
passed to me to decide. While the complaints been awaiting my decision, RAC has 
confirmed that, as an alternative to a years free European cover, it would be happy to give 
Mr and Mrs M a cash equivalent sum
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr and Mrs M have made a number of detailed points. I've 
considered everything theyve said carefully. But I don't intend to comment on each and 
every point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the core of 
their complaint.
Its plain from reading the file and from the contents of Mr Ms phone calls with RAC that 
Mr and Mrs M had a very difficult and unpleasant experience after their car developed a 
fault. But I don't think that their distress and inconvenience was necessarily caused by 
anything RAC did or didn't do. 
Mr Ms told us that he has in-depth mechanical knowledge and was satisfied he'd diagnosed 
the cars fault himself. He felt it could be resolved with a quick and easy fix. In contrast the 
foreign garage said the problem was something far more significant and potentially 
extremely costly. So I can understand why Mr M wasn't happy with the garages preliminary 
diagnosis, which was the problem was with the cars engines. But Mr M didn't think that was 
right because, before going into limp mode, the car was running smoothly, which would 
indicate the engine was fine.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy is clear that service providers abroad, including garages, don't act as 
agents for RAC. So RAC isn't responsible for the actions of the garage or its diagnosis. And 
the garage told RAC it had run a diagnostic test of Mr Ms car which indicated the problem 
was with the cars pistons. That was why it believed the car needed further investigation to 
determine what was causing the problem. 
I don't think RAC had any cause to dispute the garages preliminary diagnosis. I'm aware 
Mr M said he believed the issue was a simple brake switch matter. Hes sent us some 
photos of a diagnostic tool used on his car five days after he returned to the UK, which he 
believes supports his position. But one of those photos clearly shows an error code P1338 
(one, three, three eight). Mr Ms said the P1338 fault code refers to a brake switch issue. But 
I don't think thats right. P1338 is a fault code for a misfiring cylinder (an engine problem). 
The diagnostic code for the brake switch would appear to be P1388 (one, three, eight, eight). 
So the fault code Mr Ms shown us indicates an issue with a cylinder misfire not a brake 
switch issue. And if this was the information the garage gave to RAC, that is the diagnostic 
was returning fault codes with the cylinders, then RAC had no reason to challenge that. But, 
in any event, as I've said above, RAC isn't responsible for the actions of the garage. 
So, as far as RAC was aware, a garage had made a preliminary diagnosis but needed to do 
further work in order to make a full determination of the problem. Mr and Mrs M didn't want 
the garage to do further diagnosis, they simply wanted RAC to bring their car home. But the 
terms of their policy only entitles them to that service when certain criteria are met. And 
those include that a garage has done a full diagnosis of the problem and confirmed that the 
cost of repair wouldn't exceed the market value of the car. But Mr M wasnt happy for the 
garage to strip the engine in order to provide that full diagnosis. And without that diagnosis 
his policy doesn't entitle him to have his car returned to the UK at RACs cost. Mr M could 
have, if hed wanted to, taken his car to another garage and asked for a second opinion, but 
that wasn't something his policy covered.
Mr and Mrs M said they didn't pay their premiums for many years in order for RAC to insist 
they follow its terms and conditions. But every insurance policy is governed by terms and 
conditions. And those form the contract between the insurer and its policyholder. Those terms and conditions set out what risks the policy covers, that is what events the policy will 
respond to, and what benefits it might offer to cover those risks and the limitations of that 
cover. And I think its reasonable for RAC to only offer the cover provided by the policy. So if 
Mr and Mrs M didn't meet the criteria to benefit from the policy then I think it was reasonable 
for RAC to decline to provide those benefits, regardless of how long Mr and Mrs M might 
have had policies with RAC for. And on this occasion in the circumstances they found 
themselves in, the policy didn't entitle Mr and Mrs M to have their car brought back to the 
UK. 
Mr and Mrs M were also unhappy with the location and comfort of the hotel RAC put them up 
in. But as the hotel wasn't acting as RACs agents, RAC wasn't responsible for any 
complaints Mr and Mrs M might have had about it. That said, had they told RACs agents 
abroad about their issues with the hotel, then I would have expected RACs agents to find 
them alternative accommodation. But I don't think RACs agents were aware of the issues 
with the hotel. And in those circumstances I don't think RAC is responsible for the problems 
Mr and Mrs M had with it.
Further, I'm aware that Mr and Mrs Ms stay at the hotel was made worse because - after 
putting aside money for essentials for the journey home, and what Mr M had estimated the 
cost of repairs to their car to be - they had very little left over to buy food and drinks. So they 
had to spend their time at the hotel extremely frugally. But I don't think anything RAC did put 
them into that position. While I understand how unpleasant that must have been for them, 
their policy only entitled them to room only accommodation. And matters were dragged out 
because the breakdown happened at a weekend. But RAC had, for the most part, provided 
what the policy entitled Mr and Mrs M to.
That said, RAC has acknowledged that it should have offered Mr and Mrs M alternative 
transport while they were staying at the hotel. I understand that would have made 
Mr and Mrs Ms stay slightly less unpleasant. 
To recognise the impact of its mistakes RAC offered to provide European cover for Mr and 
Mrs M for a year free of charge. But Mr and Mrs M no longer wanted the cover RAC offered. 
So this was of little comfort to them. However, RAC has since confirmed that, as Mr and 
Mrs M no longer want the cover, they will instead provide a cash sum equivalent to the cost 
of the free cover it was offering, which I understand is £96.04. I think thats reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances. So Im not going to instruct RAC to take any further 
action. If Mr and Mrs M wish to accept that offer they should contact RAC directly.
Mr and Mrs M had other complaints about the service RAC provided once they returned to 
the UK. But that was provided under the terms of their UK breakdown policy. And as our 
investigator has explained, complaints about that policy are outside of our jurisdiction. So I 
don't intend to comment on those here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. I think its reasonable that RAC 
pays Mr and Mrs M a cash sum of £96.04 by way of compensation for its mistakes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman