DRN-3041845
The complaint
Mrs H is represented by her husband, Mr H. She says her St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP) partner misguided her on the execution and valuation of a switch of 
funds (instructed on 23 March 2020/the date) within her Retirement Account (RA). SJP 
concedes that she was misinformed in the matter but says the matter has been settled with 
Mrs Hs express agreement. 
Mr H says the settlement was reached under duress and that the matter should be re-visited. 
He also says Mrs H lost trust in the partner and sought to transfer (out) her RA but SJP 
unreasonably refused to waive its Early Withdrawal Charge (EWC); and that, despite the 
circumstances SJP also unreasonably refused to allocate a new partner to her.
Mrs H seeks redress for all the above.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. Overall and in the main, she found as follows:
SJP argued that the switch related matter should not be addressed and is beyond 
our jurisdiction because it has been settled with Mrs H on a full and final basis.
In terms of our jurisdiction, the complaint about the switch meets the relevant rules. 
SJPs point about the settlement is understood but there remains scope to address 
what Mrs H says about the matter. She was led to believe that a switch instruction 
given before 12pm on the date will be executed on the date and that the unit values 
as of 12pm will apply; this was wrong, instead the relevant cut-off time was 5.30pm 
and switches instructed before this time would then be executed on unit values as of 
12pm the following day; whilst Mrs H had been misinformed there had been no loss 
to her in the matter because the pre-12pm instruction was executed on the following 
days (12pm) unit value in the same way as a pre-5.30pm instruction would have 
been executed; either way the switch could not have been based on unit values at 
12pm on the date; to compensate her for the misinformation she agreed and 
accepted a settlement based on a refund of the previous 12 months Ongoing Advice 
Fee (OAF)  in the amount of £527.59  and a payment of £750 for trouble and 
upset; this was generous in the circumstances, so there is no basis to ask SJP to pay 
more.
There is no complaint about unsuitable advice in this case and there is evidence that 
the EWC was disclosed to Mrs H as part of the terms and conditions she agreed to at 
the outset of its service. Illustrations she was given at the time also provided clear, 
simple and prominently presented information about charges payable. For these 
reasons, there is no basis to say SJP should waive the EWC in her case.
SJP declined the request for a new partner to be allocated to Mrs Hs account 
because Mr H, on her behalf, had made her intention to leave SJP very clear and 
was already moving funds out of her account. In these circumstances, it made a 
legitimate business decision.
Mrs H disagreed with this outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. On her behalf, 
Mr H said SJPs error in the switch related matter was never rectified, that the loss caused 
was not addressed and that the notion of being able to leave SJP is misleading given that 
the RAs funds were/are  locked for the 6 years when so much losses have been incurred 
in the last few years due to the lack of advise and poor funds to invest with SJP. He also 
referred to a 15% drop in the value of some of the accounts funds. The matter was referred 
to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Switch Instruction of 23 March 2020
Both parties settled this matter in August 2020. Mrs H signed the relevant settlement 
acceptance form in which she agreed that the settlement was in  full and final settlement 
of [her] complaint against St. Jamess Place  and that she released and discharged  all 
and /or any claims, rights, demands and causes of action, whether or not presently known to 
parties, which [she had] or may have against [the partner] and St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management plc in relation to [his] complaint . 
Mr H had a complaint of his own, related to his RA, that was identical to Mrs Hs. This 
settlement was reached after SJPs first complaint response and its response to Mr Hs 
appeal against the initial outcome of his complaint. The settlement proposal was made in 
SJPs appeal response and was extended to Mrs Hs complaint too. Available evidence is 
that the steps to settlement, for both, was led by Mr H.
Mr H told this service that the partners change of stance  from previously supporting his 
and Mrs Hs complaints to then supporting SJPs position  left him with no choice but to 
accept the settlement. The implication is that the same applied to Mrs H. He said something 
similar in his email to SJP of 20 August 2020. In that email he also said he had accepted the 
settlement in order to  avoid further stress and void [sic] waiting months for the 
Ombidsman [sic] decison [sic] and decided to move on and exit SJP as soon as practicable. 
This too appears to have applied to Mrs Hs position in the matter. In his response to the 
investigators view Mr H said it was wrong to consider the settlement as fair and that the 
investigator had not taken into account the intimidation suffered in the process.
SJPs position is that the settlement concluded the switch related matter, so it should not be 
re-visited. I have considered the correspondence around the settlement and I have found 
SJPs approach to have been broadly cordial and respectful towards Mr and Mrs H. It gave 
apologies for the wrongdoing it conceded, it expressed appreciation for their custom, it 
referred to them as valued clients and it hoped they would continue to remain clients. I have 
not seen evidence that establishes the intimidation Mr H has claimed (or suggested). 
Furthermore, the relevant partner was transparent about his written input into the complaint 
investigation. He sent Mr H a copy of that input and its contents were supportive of the 
conclusion that there had been misinformation about execution of the switch instruction  
which appears to have been helpful in SJP conceding the same in its complaint decision.
Overall and on balance, I consider that Mrs H accepted and agreed to the settlement by her 
free will. She received a refund of a years OAF and £750 for trouble and upset. Like the investigator, I consider that this was a generous package. Based on the circumstances of 
her case, it is possible that I would not have found grounds to award a refund of advice 
related fees  mindful that, amongst other aspects, the matter was about inaccurate 
information and not about unsuitable investment advice; and it is not alleged that she was 
denied the associated OAF service. I agree that trouble and upset was caused to Mrs H and 
that such effect should be compensated for, but because the effect of the misinformation 
was quite limited (before it was corrected) it is unlikely that I would have awarded as high as 
£750. For these reasons, I am not persuaded that SJP should have to do any more in either 
respect.
Available evidence is that the invested units in the RA were forward priced  which is not 
unusual for such assets. The fact is that, even without the misinformation from the partner, 
the instruction of 23 March would not have been based on valuation as of 12pm on that date. 
So long as the instruction was received before the 5.30pm cut-off time, valuation from 12pm 
the following day is what would have applied. If Mrs H, or Mr H, say clarification on this at the 
time could or would have altered the instruction, it appears that at any future point she 
instructed the switch the valuation would remain based on forward pricing. Value would still 
have been unknown and somewhat unpredictable at the point of instruction and would still 
have been based on pricing as of 12pm the following day. Consequently, it does not appear 
that the misinformation made a direct difference to the pricing Mrs H could achieve in the 
switch or that it led to a financial loss. In such circumstances, there does not appear to be 
grounds to compensate for financial loss.
EWC
I endorse and incorporate the investigators findings on this issue. It is not disputed that 
fees/charges relevant to SJPs/the partners service were disclosed to and agreed by Mrs H 
at the outset of the service. That information included provisions for the EWC. The argument 
on her behalf is essentially that the misinformation for which SJP is responsible was 
sufficient to justify her loss of trust and confidence in the partner (and in SJP) and that such 
circumstances also justified her wish to transfer her account away from SJP without incurring 
an exit cost.
In another case with different circumstances such an argument could have merit  for 
instance, where sufficiently detrimental unsuitable investment advice and/or investment 
mismanagement has been established and has damaged trust and confidence. In Mrs Hs 
case, I am not persuaded that enough happened to justify her argument. 
As I said above, there is no complaint about unsuitable investment advice in her case and it 
is not alleged that she was denied the OAF service from the partner  and, in any case, she 
has already received a refund covering OAF fees for the 12 months up to settlement of the 
misinformation matter. The misinformation was an isolated incident that does not appear to 
have caused a financial loss. SJP readily accepted responsibility for it and, as I also said 
above, it has compensated her generously for it. 
I do not say or suggest that Mrs H was/is wrong to have lost trust and confidence in SJP. 
That was/is a personal determination for her to make and she was/is entitled to the 
conclusion she has reached. However, that does not automatically mean she was/is also 
entitled to a waiver of the EWC  and for the above reasons I am not persuaded that she 
was/is.
Allocation of a new partner
Mr H sought to transfer his and Mrs Hs accounts out of SJP, so this suggests that he could 
do so and that the accounts were not locked in as he asserts. Had SJP agreed to waive the EWC it appears likely that the accounts would have been transferred away from SJP. There 
is correspondence evidence in which Mr H stated and repeated the intention to move the 
accounts away from SJP. In these circumstances, SJPs decision not to allocate the 
resources of a new partner to the accounts was not unreasonable. 
I might have considered differently if Mrs H only sought a new partner, without a desire to 
leave SJP, and that she did that because of her loss of trust in the partner she had  but that 
was not the case. As far as SJP knew (and was informed), her account was on its way out 
because she had lost trust in SJP as a whole. It did not withdraw its service from her account 
 unless she chose to terminate the service  but it was not prepared to refresh that service 
with a new partner. There is also evidence that suggests no other SJP partner was prepared 
to undertake the account because of the indication that the account was about to be 
transferred out of SJP.  
Furthermore, the notion of asking for a new SJP partner also appears to be inconsistent with 
Mr Hs declaration, on his and Mrs Hs behalf, of loss of trust in SJP as a whole. As he said 
in the email of 20 August 2020, with implication upon Mrs Hs account too, he wanted to exit 
SJP as soon as practicable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman