DRN-3129257
The complaint
Mr Ls complained that esure Insurance Limited (esure) havent dealt properly with 
repairs to his car following an accident.
What happened]
Mr L was involved in a car accident towards the end of 2020. He contacted his insurer, 
esure, to arrange for the damage to the car to be repaired.
When Mr Ls car was returned to him, he found the repairs hadnt been completed 
satisfactorily. So he complained to esure. Esure had the car assessed and agreed the 
repairs hadnt been completed satisfactorily. They paid Mr L £150 compensation for this. 
And they said theyd have rectification works done. They assessed the cost of the work to 
be £1,846.93.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with esures response and brought his complaint to us. He told our 
investigator he didnt want the rectification works done by the same repairer, but by the 
main dealer. He got a quote for repairs by the dealer which came to £3,598.51. The 
investigator forwarded the quote to esure. Esure confirmed they wouldnt pay that amount, 
but would either arrange for the repairs to be completed by their repairer, or pay Mr L 
£1,846.93, which he could use towards the cost of repairs at a garage of his choice.
Our investigator considered all the information provided and concluded esures offer was a 
fair way to resolve Mr Ls complaint. He explained wed expect an insurer in this position to 
rectify the poor repairs  or to contribute to the cost of rectification. But we wouldnt expect 
a cash payment to be more than the amount it would cost the insurer to have the work 
done themselves.
Mr L responded to the investigators view by asking to see esures estimate showing they 
could rectify the car for £1,846.93. The investigator asked esure to provide this  but he had 
no response. So he revised his view.
The investigator said Mr Ls estimate detailed the work needed to rectify the original repairs
- which had been costed at £3,598.51. But hed not seen a similar calculation of costs from 
esure. And, while he thought it likely Mr Ls estimate was higher  because hed got it from 
a main dealer  he had no evidence to support that supposition. In the absence of that 
evidence, he concluded it was reasonable that esure pay Mr L the amount of his estimate.
And he thought esure should pay Mr L a further £100 to recognise the trouble and upset 
the delay in dealing with the matter had caused.
In response to the investigators second view, esure supplied a detailed estimate for the 
work which came to £2,197.62. The investigator compared the two estimates. He noted 
the costs for parts and materials were broadly the same. But the labour costs included in 
Mr Ls estimate were almost twice those in the one from esure.
The investigator concluded that esure should either arrange for repairs, or pay Mr L
£2,197.62 which he could use to have the repairs done at a garage of his choice. But he 
said again it wouldnt be fair to make esure pay Mr L more than it would cost them to 
have the work done themselves.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators view. So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. But Im not asking esure to do anything 
more than our investigator did in his most recent view. Ill explain why.
Mr Ls insurance policy provides that, if his car is damaged, esure will pay to repair the 
damage. Thats what happened here. Both parties agree those repairs werent carried out 
satisfactorily and rectification work is needed.
Esure have offered to have the rectification work done. Thats what Id expect them to 
do. But Mr L wants to choose where the work is done because hes lost confidence in 
esures repairers. I understand why he feels that way.
But the role of our service is to decide if businesses have dealt with complaints fairly - not 
to impose penalties on them when things go wrong. And it would penalise esure to make 
them pay more for the repairs than they would pay if Mr L allowed them to arrange the 
rectification work.
So, while its up to Mr L where he gets the repairs done, its not fair for me to say 
esure should contribute more what it would cost them  which is £2,197.62.
Putting things right
Ive explained why I think esure should pay Mr L £2,197.62 towards having his car 
repaired. But, if Mr L decides he doesnt want the additional expense of going to another 
repairer, Id expect esure to arrange for the repairs to be done by their repairer.
And, while Ive explained why it wouldnt be fair for me to impose a penalty on esure, I 
recognise that their handling of Mr Ls complaint has inconvenienced him. While I 
understand his reservations about using the car, esures notes confirm they told Mr L that 
it was driveable. Ive seen nothing which contradicts that. So the inconvenience is that his 
car hasnt been repaired. I agree with our investigator that esure should pay Mr L £100 
compensation for that inconvenience  in addition to the £150 theyve previously paid him.]
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint and directing esure to either:
pay Mr L £2,197.62 towards the cost of rectification work; or
arrange to have the rectification work done by their repairer at their expense; and
pay Mr L £100 compensation for the inconvenience theyve caused him.
]Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman