DRN-4283029
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly in not 
upholding his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to 
a timeshare product he purchased using his credit card.   
What happened
In or around November 2015, Mr M (jointly with his wife) agreed to purchase a timeshare 
product from a supplier who Ill refer to as D. The product purchased provided membership 
to a points-based scheme operated by D with 5,000 points to be used each year against 
holiday accommodation bookings at properties and resorts included within the scheme.
The total cost of the product purchased was £4,051. A deposit of £299 was paid at the time 
using a credit card in Mr Ms sole name issued by another business. Mr M made a further 
payment of £3,851 in or around April 2016 using a credit card issued by Halifax, also in his 
sole name.
In or around March 2017, using a claims management company (the CMC), Mr M 
submitted a claim to Halifax under section 75 of the CCA (S75). The CMC said that under 
S75, Halifax were jointly and severally liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by D. And they alleged that D had misrepresented the product purchased by telling Mr M:
the only way to exit the points membership was to purchase a different asset-backed 
type membership;
he was guaranteed to be able to exit the asset-backed type membership after 15 
years; and
purchasing more points would provide access to additional benefits although he 
already had access to these.
Further, the CMC alleged thered been a breach of contract. They said Mr M wasnt provided 
with documents confirming ownership of any part of any property, which was a contractual 
requirement under the asset-backed timeshare product agreement.
To assist their investigation into Mr Ms claim, Halifax asked the CMC to provide 
documentary evidence to support the allegations made. 
It doesnt appear the CMC provided any new evidence. Instead, they expanded Mr Ms 
claim, suggesting clauses contained within the terms and conditions werent fair under the 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR). In particular, they 
thought the purchase contract was unenforceable due to clauses that werent explained to 
Mr M at the time of the sale, including:
membership of the product purchased continues until 2054 and potentially in 
perpetuity; and
Mr M would have no control of sums incurred/charged during that time.
The CMC also suggested D hadnt provided Mr M with notice of a general meeting in 2016, 
which he was entitled to receive and attend. As such, they considered this to be a breach of 
contract.
Halifax thought there was insufficient evidence to substantiate the claims of 
misrepresentation and didnt accept there was any evidence of a breach of contract. Halifax 
also thought the further allegations didnt stand given Mr M had signed the terms and 
conditions confirming sight of the documents relevant to the agreement.
In response, the CMC suggested D had further misrepresented the product by suggesting 
that Mr M was purchasing membership of an exclusive club. They interpreted exclusivity as 
providing access to exclusive resorts unavailable to non-members at a price cheaper than 
could be found elsewhere.
Halifax said the contract doesnt guarantee the accommodation would be available to 
members only. They also didnt agree with the CMCs arguments relating to the comparative 
price for members and non-members.
Unhappy with Halifaxs responses, the CMC referred Mr Ms complaint to this service. 
Having considered all the information available, our investigator found that the purchase 
agreement from November 2015 didnt relate to the asset-backed timeshare product referred 
to by the CMC. Or that there was any evidence Halifax had funded such a product. 
Furthermore, our investigator couldnt find any evidence to support any claim of 
misrepresentation, or that D had failed to perform one or more of the contracts terms, thus 
creating a breach. As a consequence, they didnt think Halifax needed to do anything more.
The CMC didnt accept our investigators findings. They asked this service to consider the 
contents of a 51-page document prepared by Counsel with Generic submissions on behalf 
of complainants relating to points-based products sold by D.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further. Having done so, while I reached the same outcome as our investigator, Id 
considered some issues which I didnt feel were previously fully addressed. Because of that, 
I issued a provisional decision (PD) on 6 July 2023  giving the CMC, Mr M and Halifax the 
opportunity to respond to my findings before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
M paid £4,051 for the timeshare product in November 2015 and paid a deposit of 
£299 using a credit card issued by another business. The CMC have provided 
evidence that Mr M made a further payment of £3,851 in April 2016 using a credit 
card issued by Halifax. The total of these two payments is £4,150. This is slightly 
more than the purchase price shown in the purchase agreement provided by the 
CMC. 
Assuming the Halifax card payment does relate to the purchase made in November 
2015, S75 would apply to that purchase. This would mean that Mr M is afforded the 
protection offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. Halifax appear to 
have accepted that the payment does relate to a timeshare membership Mr M 
purchased from D. Although I think its unclear whether the Halifax card payment 
does actually relate to the November 2015 purchase. However, Ive taken this 
section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
1 The Dispute Resolution Sourcebookconsidered here specifically relates to whether I believe Halifaxs treatment of Mr Ms 
claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available. While 
the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, 
we do not provide a legal service. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Misrepresentation
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by D in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that D made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Mr M something that wasnt true in relation to one or more 
of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentations 
were material in inducing Mr M to enter the contract. This means I would need to be 
persuaded that Mr M reasonably relied on those false statements when deciding to 
buy the timeshare product.
The CMC have provided a copy of a purchase agreement which Mr M signed in 
November 2015. It refers to the purchase of points rights and membership (where not 
already a member). There appears to be no suggestion within that agreement that 
the product purchased was an asset-backed product of the nature described by the 
CMC. Further, the CMC havent provided any other evidence suggesting that the 
product Mr M purchased, using his Halifax credit card, was an asset-backed product.
The misrepresentations alleged within the CMCs letter of claim specifically relate to 
an asset-backed product. But given my finding above, I dont think these apply to the 
points-based product Mr M purchased in November 2015. And because theres no 
evidence available that Mr M did purchase an asset-backed timeshare product using 
his Halifax credit card, I dont think I can consider the alleged misrepresentations 
further as they dont appear relevant here. 
Ive considered the CMC comments as regards the alleged exclusivity of Mr Ms 
membership and benefits. In particular, the CMC have stated [] it must be 
accepted that [Mr M] purchased membership of an exclusive club [] It must be 
accepted that either [Mr M] would gain access to exclusive resorts, namely 
accommodation unavailable to non-members, and/or accommodation which is 
cheaper than can be found elsewhere. 
Its unclear whether this allegation is intended to relate to the points-based purchase 
in November 2015 or to the asset-backed product originally referred to by the CMC. 
Either way, Ive not seen any evidence specific to any product Mr M purchased which 
defines exclusivity. So, this appears to be either the CMCs or Mr Ms own 
interpretation rather than what was actually communicated, whether verbally or in 
writing. And in the absence of any evidence to support that interpretation, or that D 
did in fact represent the membership in that way, I cant fairly say they did 
misrepresent the product as suggested. 
Breach of contract
In the original letter of claim, the alleged breach of contract also appears to reference 
an asset-backed timeshare product. But as Ive already explained above, I havent 
seen any evidence that Mr M purchased such a product using his Halifax credit card. So, I dont think I can consider this aspect further within the context of Mr Ms 
complaint.
However, the CMC did subsequently allege that D had breached the underlying 
contract by not inviting Mr M to attend a general meeting when they were required to 
do so. Again, its unclear whether this allegation relates to the points-based purchase 
in November 2015, or the asset-backed product originally referred to. Either way, I 
havent seen any evidence to support this allegation. 
Section 308 of the Companies Act 2006 explains:
Notice of a general meeting of a company must be given-
(a) In hard copy form,
(b) In electronic form, or
(c) By means of a website [],
or partly by one such means and partly by another.
Accepting my comments above, I havent seen any evidence that D didnt comply 
with this requirement other than Mr Ms suggestion he didnt receive an invitation. Of 
course, non-receipt isnt the same as failure to provide notice. And in any event, the 
CMC havent explained how any alleged breach ultimately resulted in a loss for Mr M. 
And on that basis, I cant reasonably say that Halifaxs response was unreasonable 
here.
Unfair terms under the UTCCR
The potential existence of unfair terms within the contract and conditions associated 
with the product Mr M purchased wouldnt ordinarily fall under the provisions of S75, 
as this section provides protection specifically against misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. And as Mr M appears to have signed the contract documentation 
acknowledging and accepting those terms, I cant reasonably say they were 
misrepresented to him.
I acknowledge that some of the contractual terms that apply to the purchase in 
November 2015 couldve potentially been unfair under the UTCCR. However, as far 
as I can tell, any potential unfairness of those terms doesnt appear to have 
eventuated in practice resulting in a loss for Mr M.  Such terms could, of course, lead 
a court to decide that an unfair relationship exists under the provisions of section 
140A of the CCA (S140A). This is contingent upon there being clear evidence that 
the payment made in April 2016 does specifically relate to the November 2015 
purchase. But I cant see that such a claim has been made to Halifax in any event. 
And because of that Halifax havent been given reasonable opportunity to consider 
such a claim and respond. So, I dont believe this is something I can consider further 
within the context of the complaint made by the CMC on Mr Ms behalf.
I have considered the generic submissions prepared by Counsel. However, as these 
were generic points and not specific to Mr Ms own purchase or recollections, I dont 
think they offered much help in making factual findings in Mr Ms case.Summary
Having carefully considered all the information available, it appears much of the 
original claim doesnt relate to the product Mr M purchased in November 2015. And 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr M used his Halifax card to purchase the asset-backed 
timeshare product referred to by the CMC. However, I have considered the 
subsequent points raised by the CMC together with the responses from Halifax. And 
as Ive explained above, I cant say that Halifaxs responses were ultimately unfair or 
unreasonable here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax have acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision confirming they agree with my 
findings and have nothing further to add. 
Despite this services attempts to follow up with them, the CMC have neither acknowledged 
receipt of my provisional decision nor provided and further comment or evidence. In these 
circumstances and in the absence of any further information, Ive no reason to vary from my 
original findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman