DRN-3821314
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain about Santander UK Plc placing restrictions on their account following 
an information request.
What happened
Mr I says he received a telephone call from someone purporting to be from Santander 
asking him for personal information. He says he was worried that the caller was not from 
Santander and worried about providing his personal information. Mr I says he asked the 
caller to e-mail him but was told that wasnt possible and was told his account would be 
frozen unless certain information provided. He says he wasnt told what that information was 
which was required and so attended his local branch. Mr I says his local branch could not 
get through to the relevant Santander department and says his account was subject to these 
checks on more than one occasion. He says he was caused distress and inconvenience and 
would like compensation as well as an apology.
Santander says its entitled to request account information and did so following large 
payments into Mr and Mrs Is account. It says it paid £75 as a goodwill gesture.
Mr and Mrs I brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it and thought 
Santander was entitled to ask where the money in the account came from. The investigator 
thought call wait times were outside the control of Santander and it was Mr Is choice to 
attend a branch.
Mr and Mrs I dont accept that view and say Santander would not tell them the information 
that was required. They say they cant scan and upload documents and are not confident 
dealing with matters on a telephone.
I asked Santander for the call recordings and for it to clarify what the £75 was for. I also 
asked it to explain why the letter didnt simply say what was required.
Santander has offered a further £75 goodwill gesture but says the calls are no longer 
available.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and came to the provisional view that I 
uphold this complaint.
I said I appreciate Santander has regulatory duties to know its customers and to question the 
source of money paid into an account. But I also thought that fraud is a major problem for 
both banks and customers. And thought it was entirely reasonable for Mr I to have been 
caused concern when he received the first telephone call during which he was asked 
confidential and personal information. I said I understand why Mr I was reluctant to provide 
that information and thought the onus in those circumstances was on Santander to 
understand Mr Is concerns and satisfy him it was a genuine call. I didnt think it clear why 
Santander couldnt simply have explained in general terms why it was calling, namely the 
deposit of a large sum of money, before then asking the security questions. I thought it likely 
in those circumstances that Mr I would have realised the call was genuine.
I appreciated that its up to Santander to decide how it communicates with its customers and 
for example up to it to decide if an information request could be put in an e-mail. But I also 
appreciated Mr Is frustration in receiving a letter which did not specify what information was 
required and required a customer to ring a telephone number that isnt answered. I didnt 
think it clear why it couldnt simply tell Mr I in a letter what information was required and tell 
him to take it to his local branch. I also didnt think it clear what checks Santander could have 
carried out itself or why it had concerns, as I could see the payments into Mr Is account 
were from firms of solicitors.
I was satisfied that Mr I attended a branch to try and sort matters out but the branch itself 
couldnt speak to Santanders department, due to call wait times, dealing with the information 
request. I appreciated that the investigator says Santander isnt responsible for call wait 
times, but I disagreed and thought it ought to have known call wait times were an issue. And 
so, considered alternatives such as making clear in the letter what was needed and for 
example suggesting the information be brought to a local branch. I was sure Santander 
appreciated that not all customers are able to upload documents themselves and many are 
uncomfortable using telephone banking or worried about providing confidential information 
over a telephone.
I didnt think it clear why additional information requests were made by Santander and said 
no doubt it can clarify that before my final decision.
My provisional view was that Mr I attended a branch for a wasted visit and no doubt spent 
some time trying to comply with these requests which I thought could have been handled 
more sympathetically. I also thought he had been caused inconvenience and distress but 
accepted he hadnt suffered any real financial loss save for the cost of attending a branch. 
My provisional view was that Santander should pay Mr and Mrs I £150 compensation which I 
thought was fair and reasonable and fairly reflected the impact caused here.
Santander has agreed with my recommendation in the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs I also accept my provisional view and have provided a letter providing additional 
information which I have read. They say a number of visits were made to a branch. That 
doesnt impact on my decision, but I do not doubt that they did make those visits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Santander should pay a further £150 compensation in addition to the £75 compensation 
already paid making a total of £225.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs I a further £150 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman