DRN-3767669
The complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund a transaction he says 
he didnt make or otherwise authorise.  
What happened
On 22 April 2021 Mr E called Barclays and said he had received a call from Amazon and 
was told someone had ordered a mobile phone costing £399. The caller said they needed 
Mr E to give information so that Amazon could provide him with a refund. Mr E confirmed 
that he gave his account number and sort code but no other security information. He 
became concerned because the caller asked Mr E for information about his other bank 
accounts and kept him on the phone for two hours, which he felt was unnecessary for a 
refund to one account. 
During his call to Barclays Mr E was told that £1,989 had left his personal account but no 
funds had left his business account. The funds had gone to an account that appeared to be 
in Mr Es name, but he confirmed he didnt have an account with the relevant bank. Mr E 
said he hadnt made the payment and a temporary credit was applied to his account. A 
further payment of £1,190 was attempted from the same account but it was blocked by 
Barclays. A payment of £4,989.99 left Mr Es business account the following day.
When Barclays reviewed the fraud claim it held Mr E liable and advised him of this, and its 
intention to remove the temporary credit, on 5 May 2021. At this stage Mr Es account was in 
credit. When the temporary credit was reversed Mr Es personal account went into overdraft 
by nearly £2,000. 
On 8 May 2021 Mr E raised a scam claim and said he transferred funds to a safe account. 
Barclays contacted both receiving banks. The bank that received the payment from Mr Es 
business account confirmed that £4,983.01 remained. This sum has been credited to Mr Es 
account. No other funds remained. 
Barclays initially rejected Mr Es scam claim but later decided to refund half of the £1,989 
payment from Mr Es personal account as it said it was unusual. But Barclays didnt think Mr 
E took enough steps to satisfy himself he was making a payment for legitimate purposes. 
Barclays also paid Mr E £200 to reflect the poor service it provided him with. 
Barclays closed Mr Es personal account with effect from 17 November 2021. It says it sent 
Mr E numerous letters in respect of the overdrawn balance on his account and adhered to 
the terms and conditions of his account in closing it with notice.
Mr E is unhappy because Barclays hasnt refunded all the money he lost, that funds were 
taken from his account after his call to Barclays about the call from Amazon and with 
Barclays decision to close his account. Mr E says he hasnt paid off the overdraft as he 
doesnt consider he is liable for the debt. 
Our investigation so far 
The investigator who considered Mr Es complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, she said that on balance she thought Mr E authorised the transactions. She also 
felt the compensation awarded to Mr E was fair, as was Barclays decision to close his 
account after sending multiple notices.  
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said:
- The investigator hadnt listened to the call he had with Barclays just after the scam 
happened. Mr E was adamant he was told in that call that funds hadnt left his 
accounts.
- Mr E said he thought Barclays had an ulterior motive relating to a loan when it 
returned funds to his business account.
- Mr E questioned why Barclays only refunded 50% of the £1,989 payment from his 
personal account.
The complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Broadly speaking Mr E is 
responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself or 
allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments except in 
more limited circumstances. 
Mr E says that when he first called Barclays in April 2021 to report what had happened, he 
was told that funds hadnt left his personal account. Ive listened to this call and can confirm 
this isnt correct. He was told that £1,989 had left his personal account but no funds had left 
his business account. But after this call, funds left Mr Es business account, and this is what 
Barclays referred to in its final response letter. Barclays apologised that this payment wasnt 
cancelled. I consider Barclays should have done more here and blocked this payment. But 
Barclays was able to recover all but £6.98 of this payment from the receiving bank and has 
also paid £200 compensation to Mr E. So, whilst I consider Barclays should have refunded 
the remaining £6.98, on balance, I consider Barclays has done enough as the compensation 
it paid exceeds what I would have awarded. 
Mr E has raised concerns about the fact he has received most of the funds that left his 
business account but not from his personal account and believes Barclays has an ulterior 
motive. I need to clarify that Barclays hasnt made any decision about returning these funds. 
Instead, it has followed industry standards and contacted the bank that received the funds to 
try to recover them. As a result of this, the bank that received the funds confirmed that the 
majority of the funds remained in the account and so these funds were returned to Mr Es 
business account. 
I turn now to the transfer of £1,989 from Mr Es personal account. Mr E has provided 
differing versions of events in this case. When he first called Barclays in April 2021, he said 
he hadnt made this payment. He later raised a scam claim and Barclays notes say that 
after a long discussion with Mr E he admitted he had made the payment at the scammers 
request. Overall, Im persuaded that Mr E authorised the payment and will explain why.
Ive seen evidence that shows that the disputed payment was made from Mr Es mobile 
device. To make the payment Mr Es mobile log in was needed as well as his mobile banking 
passcode. Technical evidence provided by Barclays shows that Mr Es banking passcode was used to log into his online banking. He has confirmed that he had possession of his 
device and that he didnt provide anyone else with his security information to allow access to 
his online banking. In the circumstances, I cant see that there was a point of compromise 
that allowed an unknown third party to make the transfer and attempt a further transfer that 
was blocked by Barclays. 
Ive also taken into account the fact that when Mr Es fraud claim wasnt upheld, he raised a 
scam claim, and a safe account scam was discussed. The transfer initially appeared to be 
made to an account in Mr Es name because his name appears on his statement as the 
recipient of the funds (although this actually wasnt the case). Scammers are known to 
persuade victims to transfer funds they say arent safe into a different account that is either 
in that customers name or is held in another account for safekeeping while a new account is 
being set up. So it seems likely to me that Mr E was persuaded to transfer funds from his 
account into another account.
Given that Ive concluded the payments were authorised Ive gone on to consider Barclays 
obligations under the CRM Code. Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm 
should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an APP scam except in limited 
circumstances, including when it can establish that:
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Barclays has already refunded Mr E 50% of the £1,989 payment as it said the payment was 
unusual. So the only point I need to consider is whether Mr E had a reasonable basis for 
believing the person he was transacting with was legitimate.  The only information I have is 
from Barclays notes that say Mr E didnt complete any checks as the caller sounded 
genuine and professional. Mr E has told this service that he didnt make the payment and so 
hasnt provided any detail. In the circumstances, I consider Barclays can fairly rely on an 
exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code. This means that Im not asking Barclays 
to pay Mr E the remaining 50% of his loss. 
Closure of Mr Es account
I agree with the investigator that Barclays acted fairly and in accordance with the terms of Mr 
Es account in closing his account. Ive seen letters Barclays sent to Mr E as follows:
- 02/06/21  asking Mr E to make a payment into his account
- 17/06/21  telling Mr E he needs to make a payment into his account
- 01/07/21  requiring Mr E to take urgent action as his current account was overdrawn
- 17/07/21  telling Mr E he still needs to make a payment into his account
- 25/07/21  informing Mr E his account had been restricted because hed exceeded 
his unarranged overdraft and hadnt made a payment 
- 16/08/21  advising Mr E the overdrawn balance on his account was now critical and 
it was very important he either pay or get in touch to discuss his circumstances 
- 16/10/21  advising that in accordance with the terms and conditions of his account 
Barclays was closing his account with effect from 15 November 2021. The letter went 
on to demand that Mr E repay his outstanding balance of the account and to tell Mr E 
that if he didnt do so the bank may transfer the debt to a recovery unit or agency. Mr 
E was also told that Barclays intended to register details of his account with the credit 
reference agencies. In August 2021 Barclays offered Mr E the opportunity to arrange a payment plan but Mr E 
declined and said that as he is a victim of a fraud, he shouldnt be required to make any 
payments. But by this date Barclays had considered Mr Es claims and so Mr E knew that 
Barclays werent crediting his account any further. Mr E had a further conversation with 
Barclays on 27 October 2021 (so after the termination letter of 16 October Ive referred to 
above). Mr E said he wouldnt pay and also said hed wait to see if he received any further 
funds. So I consider Mr E was well aware of the debt and the need to repay it and was 
warned that it may be transferred to a recovery unit or agency. Overall, Im satisfied Barclays 
acted reasonably in closing Mr Es account and seeking to recover the debt he owed. 
I understand Mr E will be disappointed with this decision, but I cant fairly ask Barclays to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman