DRN-2627351
The complaint
Mrs S, through her son Mr S, complains that she has sent the relevant documents to Bank of 
Scotland plc (Halifax) to reactivate a dormant account, but the bank has failed to accept the 
documents and has requested additional documents unnecessarily.  
What happened
On 26 February 2019 Mrs S provided two documents to Halifax as proof of identity and 
address in order to reactivate a dormant account. These documents were certified as copies 
by another Mr S in his capacity as a certified accountant. The documents were dated 10 
March 2018 and 30 April 2018 and were both from the Department of Work and Pensions 
but about different benefits. 
Halifax wrote to Mrs S on 4 April 2019 and advised that the documents were acceptable as 
proofs, but the certification wasnt acceptable. They said she would need to provide the 
original documents or two other forms of identity documents from the list. One of the items 
on the list was an official benefit/state pension letter which was dated within the last 12 
months.  
On 28 May 2019 Mrs S sent Halifax the original documents from 10 March and 30 April 2018 
as requested. 
Halifax wrote back on 25 June 2019 to say that the identity documents were acceptable, but 
they needed proof of her address. This would need to be a bank statement, or a utility bill 
dated during the last six months. 
Mrs Ss son was unhappy that Halifax had originally said that they would accept the 
Department of Work and Pensions documents but were now saying that they required 
additional evidence. He brought his complaint to us.  
We notified Halifax, and they looked into it. As they had not already issued a final response, 
they did so on 8 October 2020 which did not uphold the complaint. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this, and so one of our investigators looked into Mrs Ss complaint. 
She thought that Halifax should have accepted the proof provided in the first instance, and 
asked Halifax to pay £75 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Halifax disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Ive looked at what Halifax did and whether they acted fairly and reasonably in 
dealing with Mrs S. In this case, having done so, I dont think Halifax have treated Mrs S 
fairly, and I will explain why.
In Halifaxs first letter to Mrs S on 4 April 2019 they advise that the documents would be 
acceptable, but the certification is not, but dont explain why. They ask for the originals to be 
sent in, or alternative documents. 
As the certifier is acting in his capacity as a certified accountant, which is one of occupations 
listed in Halifaxs document about certification, I have checked the certifier, and he is on the 
ACCAs register of certified accountants. I then queried with Halifax on what basis this 
certification wasnt accepted. Halifax advised that they misread the certifiers name, and they 
were not aware of the ACCA website. This meant that they were not able to verify the 
certifier. They were also concerned that the certifier may be a relative as they had the same 
surname. However, Halifax did not initially communicate this reasoning to Mrs S, nor ask 
whether the certifier was a relative. This meant that they missed the opportunity to resolve 
matters quickly and failed to engage fairly and proactively with this vulnerable customer.  
Had they done so, the issue may have been resolved very quickly. Instead, it took many 
months before this was resolved.    
Having received the letter asking for the originals, I think it is entirely reasonable for Mrs S 
and her son to think that sending in the originals as requested would be sufficient to verify 
the identity and address, as this is what Halifax have asked for.  
Although there was a delay until Mr S sent in the originals on his mothers behalf, this delay 
was as a result of Mr S trying to clarify with Halifax what the issue was with the certification. 
He wrote in on 8 and 20 April 2020 but no response was received until 23 May 2020. He 
then sent in the original documents which were by then more than 12 months old. Halifax 
had already accepted these documents in principle, so I cant see what additional risk there 
was in accepting the originals. I can understand how frustrating it must have been for Mrs S 
to have then been asked for further documents. 
I note that the leaflet entitled Other ways of proving my identity and my address says that 
the documents should be from different sources, that they must be current, and that Halifax 
reserve the right to obtain additional identification and address verification documents if 
required. I can see that Halifax are therefore following their own processes in requesting the 
additional documentation, but if they hadnt failed to properly verify the certifier, this wouldnt 
have been necessary. 
I appreciate that these processes are in place to ensure Halifax are verifying the identity of 
the account holder sufficiently, particularly in the case of vulnerable customers, but in this 
case, better engagement with the customer from the outset would have increased the 
likelihood of the identification process being resolved earlier. 
In view of the error made by Halifax in not identifying the certifier correctly and failing to 
engage with Mrs S about the documentation in a better way, I agree with the investigator 
that an award of £75 should be made for the trouble and upset caused. My final decision
  My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should make a payment of £75 
to Mrs S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman