DRN-4443288
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about their contents insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because 
it initially declined their claim for accidental damage to their washing machine.
What happened
Mr S called AXA and said the catch on the door of his washing machine wasnt working. 
AXA declined the claim as it felt nothing covered by the policy had happened, it thought it 
was likely the lock on the six-year old machine had failed due to normal wear and tear. Mr S 
wasnt happy. When he called back a few days later the loss was discussed again and he 
said his daughter had been putting toys in the machine. AXA agreed to review the claim. 
AXA appointed a company to consider the loss. Mr S sent it an invoice for a repair hed had 
completed at a cost of £150. AXAs company said it would settle the claim based on that 
invoice. It said Mr S would have to pay the £100 policy excess and it would pay him the £150 
repair cost, or it could deduct the excess sum from the repair cost and send Mr S £50.
Mr S wasnt happy. He said AXA had declined the claim unfairly initially  causing him to 
have to do washing at the launderette. Which was costly and time consuming. He said that 
given its failures it wasnt fair of AXA to expect him to pay the excess. And he later argued 
that excesses are only payable when an insurer completes a repair  which AXA had 
refused to do here, leaving him to arrange that and pay for it.  
Our Investigator felt AXA had acted fairly and reasonably. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S remained unhappy. He said AXA had never paid him any money  but he wouldnt 
accept any settlement from it unless it was the full £150. He said he wanted AXA to show 
him where in the policy it set out timelines for when items suffer wear and tear because he 
didnt think it had been reasonable for AXA to have just assumed that was what had 
happened to his machine. He said hed told AXA, during the first call, that his daughter had 
damaged the machine  whilst hed listened to a recording of that call presented by our 
Investigator to show Mr S had not said that, Mr S implied the recording couldnt be trusted. 
He disputed again that an excess should be payable in this circumstance. His complaint was 
referred for an Ombudsmans consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss policy offers him cover for accidental damage (which the policy doesnt define). But 
there are exclusions for mechanical breakdown and general wear and tear.
I appreciate that this situation was frustrating for Mr S. But Ive got no reason to think the 
recording of the call was not reliable. I accept that Mr S meant to tell AXA about his daughter 
placing inappropriate objects in the machine, and likely recalls that he did so. But Im 
satisfied that he didnt actually tell AXA about that at the time. And it had to make a 
judgement on his claim based on what he did tell it. 
I understand that Mr S said hed used the machine, which was about six years old, a couple 
of days before and just pushed the door shut after use. The following day Mr S tried to shut 
the door and it wouldnt catch. 
Its not unusual for parts to fail over time  there is no specific timeline for that in most cases. 
Thats because how and when items fail differs. As our Investigator noted, two people can 
have the same item  but if they use it differently, one will likely fail before the other. So 
there isnt any detail in this respect an insurer can reasonably place in a policy document. 
Whats important, when a claim is made and considered, is if the insurer acts fairly and 
reasonably. 
Here Mr S had a washing machine which had been in use for a number of years. He 
reported an issue with the lock mechanism  a mechanical part which is in use not only 
during every wash cycle, but also if the door is opened and closed in between. It is a type of 
part which wears over time and can fail after a few years. I dont think it was unreasonable 
that AXAs claim adviser concluded that was the most likely cause of the problem. In saying 
that Im mindful that, during that first call, Mr S hadnt indicated that anything had likely 
happened that might have meant the failure was likely due to something other than normal 
use. In the circumstances I think it was reasonable for AXA to reach its claim conclusion 
based on the detail it had and that the outcome was fair given the terms of the policy. 
I know AXA later accepted the claim, and that Mr and Mrs S had suffered distress and 
inconvenience in the interim. But I can see that AXA only accepted the claim after it received 
the additional information from Mr S about his daughter placing inappropriate objects in the 
machine. I think it was fair for AXA to have reviewed its position in light of the new 
information. But that doesnt mean its first decision was wrong. As Ive said I think it was fair 
as well as having been reasonably made. Which means it isnt reasonably liable for the 
upset Mr and Mrs S suffered before the position was reviewed and the claim was accepted. 
I appreciate that Mr S understands that a policy excess is only paid when an insurer 
completes a repair. But he is not correct. An excess is the first part of any claim which the 
policyholder is responsible for paying  and that is regardless of how the insurer settles the 
claim. AXA accepted Mr Ss claim for accidental damage, so he reasonably owes it the 
excess sum of £100. AXA has said it will pay him £150 less the £100 excess, so £50. But 
Mr S has said he wont accept that payment. I cant then reasonably criticise AXA for not 
having paid it to him so far. If Mr and Mrs S want AXA to settle their claim, they should 
contact it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Fiona RobinsonOmbudsman