DRN-3198339
The complaint
Mr L complained that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly without doing sufficient 
affordability checks to assess whether he could reasonably afford the loan. 
What happened
Mr L was given a single loan by UK Credit. Mr L told UK Credit that he would use the 
loan for debt consolidation  in other words, repay some of his other outstanding debt 
with the money UK Credit provided. 
The main loan details were as follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repayme
ntTotal 
amount 
payable 
over termLoan 
status
07/08/19 £10,000 44 months £383.43 £16,870.92 Outstanding
When Mr L complained to UK Credit it didnt uphold the complaint so Mr L brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what happened and she felt that this 
was a complaint we should uphold. 
UK Credit disagreed with our investigators view. It did accept that it didnt do all the checks it 
shouldve done before lending but said that this didnt mean that the loan was unaffordable. 
UK Credit told us that without sight of what further checks would have shown, it didnt 
believe there was enough evidence to support the investigators conclusions that the loan 
was unaffordable or unsustainable. It mainly said the loan had looked affordable on the 
figures it gathered and that it disagreed that surplus income of £151 was insufficient given 
the other household income and the fact that household expenses were shared. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending decision 
shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
I've kept all these things in mind when thinking about Mr Ls complaint. 
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed the loan. It asked him 
for details of his income and verified this by doing an online check. UK Credit also did a 
credit check to find out about Mr Ls credit history and during a phone call it asked Mr L 
about his normal monthly spending and how he planned to use the loan. 
Mr Ls monthly income was recorded as £2,200 and after reviewing the information on the 
credit report it obtained and speaking to Mr L, UK Credit worked out that with the planned 
debt consolidation, Mr L should still have a monthly surplus of around £151 after paying for 
its loan. So UK Credit concluded that the monthly repayment of £383.43 for this loan 
shouldve been affordable for him. On this basis, UK Credit concluded that it was fair to lend 
to him  and this remains its view. 
UK Credit has now acknowledged that it didnt do a proportionate check before agreeing to 
lend. But, I dont need to say anything more about this as it doesnt affect the outcome of this 
complaint. 
The main reason why I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint is because 
I dont think UK Credit thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered 
showed about Mr Ls financial situation. To my mind, the information it acquired when 
carrying out its own credit checks included clear warning signs that Mr L was experiencing 
serious financial difficulty and it was apparent his plans for using this loan for debt 
consolidation werent going to improve his overall financial situation. So I dont think UK 
Credit made a fair lending decision on this occasion when it agreed to provide this loan to 
Mr L based on the information it had in front of it. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or even sometimes an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But UK Credit couldve seen that Mr Ls outstanding balance owing on loans was £4,899, he 
owed £18,817 on credit cards and £836 on other credit accounts. I think this looked like quite 
a high amount of unsecured debt for someone in Mr Ls particular financial situation and it 
was evident that he had a long established record of relying on credit. 
UK Credit was also able to see that Mr L had taken out multiple new credit accounts  a mix 
of payday and longer term unsecured loans as well as a new credit card - in the months 
running up to him applying to UK Credit for this loan. Two of his credit cards were over the 
account limit. I noted when looking at the credit report UK Credit obtained that Mr L owed £9,962 (on a card with a credit limit of £9,800) which meant this single debt alone was more 
or less equal to the amount of the loan UK Credit would be providing to Mr L. I think should 
have straightaway alerted UK Credit to the risk that Mr Ls overall debt consolidation plan 
was unlikely to be realistically achievable with the loan it provided.  
I think UK Credit shouldve realised that the information it had gathered showing the extent 
of his reliance on expensive credit was significantly at odds with what its credit checks 
showed and that it couldnt safely rely on what Mr L had told it about how he spent his 
money. 
I think its reasonable to think that if Mr L had really had any spare cash he wouldve made 
much more meaningful inroads into clearing more of this debt and been less reliant on taking 
new credit  and he wouldnt have needed to apply for this expensive loan. 
All of this suggests to me that Mr L was over-reliant on using credit and his spending on debt 
had got beyond his control. 
I dont think using this loan to repay existing debt was enough to give UK Credit reason to 
think this wouldve improved Mr Ls overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and 
sustainable improvement in his financial situation, given his outstanding indebtedness 
overall. And based on all the information UK Credit had gathered, I dont think it was 
reasonably able to say that the loan was likely to be sustainable affordable for Mr L.
Even after the planned debt consolidation, UK Credit calculated that Mr L was still committed 
to make monthly repayments of £790.78 towards his non-consolidated debt and on top of 
this he would need to pay his new UK Credit loan monthly repayment of ££383.43. 
By my reckoning, this meant Mr L would need to pay more than half his net monthly income 
on meeting his credit commitments  and more if he was to make any realistic inroads into 
his credit card debt by paying more than the minimum monthly repayments. I think this was 
such a significant proportion of his take home pay needed to service his debt that this wasnt 
likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr L, especially bearing in mind the 44 months loan 
term.
I think this is borne out by the information UK Credit saw on the updated credit checks it 
carried out when Mr L complained about this loan. UK Credit has relied on the fact that Mr L 
used the loan as planned to repay other debt and reduced his overall outstanding credit 
balance by over £2,000 to support its view that the loan it provided hadnt had a detrimental 
effect on Mr Ls financial circumstances. But I disagree. I dont think the net decrease I can 
see in his overall total indebtedness shows a significant or meaningful improvement overall 
in his financial situation given that this loan will cost him an additional £6,870.92 over the 
loan term. And I think the lack of sustainability is demonstrated by Mr Ls continuing reliance 
on taking out this sort of expensive credit  within a couple of months he had signed up to a 
new loan which would cost £70 per month for at least the next two years and he took out and 
repaid other loans in the months that followed. 
This bears out my concern that the disposable income figure UK Credit worked on wasnt, in 
reality, dependable. 
And thinking about all the information UK Credit had gathered, I dont think it was able to be 
satisfied on the information it had in front of it that it could safely conclude this loan would be 
sustainably affordable for Mr L. Despite what UK Credit understood about his debt 
consolidation plans, it is unclear to me why UK Credit thought Mr L would be able to 
sustainably afford its loan. I think the scale of his debt and the extent of his evident money problems, compared to the much smaller value of the loan UK Credit provided, would 
suggest that it was reasonably foreseeable that Mr L would remain in serious financial 
trouble regardless. I dont currently think UK Credit should have agreed to give this loan to 
Mr L on the basis of what it knew about his financial situation when it provided the loan.
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Ls complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that UK Credit acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way. So Im not planning to award any 
additional redress over and above what I've set out below. 
But as Mr L has been further indebted with expensive lending that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what UK Credit did wrong. So, 
I think UK Credit needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr L agrees with what I've said in my provisional decision. 
UK Credit acknowledged safe receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed it had noted 
the due date for sending a response. I have heard nothing further from UK Credit and the 
deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my 
review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr L shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If UK Credit has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, UK Credit should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr L received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr L made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr L having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr L bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ls credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit 
should give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr L. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman