DRN-3861626
The complaint
This complaint is about how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) handled arrears on 
a mortgage held by Mr and Mrs R.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with NatWest in January 2019. They paid their 
contractual monthly payments (CMPs) by direct debit until April 2020 when their direct 
debit was returned unpaid. Mr and Mrs R say Mr Rs income was affected by the 
coronavirus, Covid-19 pandemic (the pandemic), so they requested a payment deferral 
which was granted and backdated to cover April 2020s missed payment. The deferred 
payments continued up to and including September 2020s CMP. 
Following the end of the six-month payment deferral period, Mr and Mrs R didnt make their 
next CMP in October 2020. NatWest sent an arrears letter the same month and Mr and 
Mrs R contacted NatWest to query what was happening. They say they had contacted their 
premier banking account manager in advance of their deferred period ending to advise that 
they were still having some financial concerns. They say they thought he was going to make 
some sort of arrangement for them, but they didnt hear from him for six weeks. 
NatWest investigated Mr and Mrs Rs concerns and agreed contact had been poor, so they 
were awarded £100 in compensation. Mr and Mrs R then reached an arrangement on 
30 December 2020 to start making their CMPs again and clear their arrears from 
January 2021 onwards. Based on this arrangement, Mr and Mrs R say they expected their 
arrears to be paid off in full by April 2022.
Mr and Mrs R made a small payment in January 2021 but did not make their full CMP. As 
this broke the arrangement they had made, the arrears were not cleared in full by April 2022. 
Mr and Mrs R say they were under the impression the first CMP in January 2021 would be 
taken by direct debit, so they only made the top up amount required manually. They say they 
were unaware the arrangement had broken as NatWest didnt write to them to tell them. 
Mr and Mrs R complained again. They felt NatWest made a series of errors that resulted in 
them having to pay additional interest on their credit card for 16 months. Mr and Mrs R say 
they had to take time off work to sort everything out. And the issues have prevented them 
from getting the additional borrowing they need.
NatWest looked into Mr and Mrs Rs concerns and agreed the repayment arrangement 
broke due to an error on NatWests part. It also agreed Mr and Mrs R should have been 
contacted when that happened. NatWest paid Mr and Mrs R a further £200 in compensation, 
confirmed their credit reports would be updated to reflect that they were in an arrangement, 
and invited them to make a new arrangement.
Mr and Mrs R have raised further concerns with NatWest since the complaint has been with 
this service. I understand NatWest has offered another £100 in compensation and has taken 
steps to clear both of their credit reports of any adverse data. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Rs concerns, but they thought NatWest had done 
enough to put things right. As Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy, the complaint was referred 
to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld and Ill explain 
why.
Its expected that consumers are treated fairly under the Mortgage and Home Finance 
Conduct of Business. And in addition to this, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) gave 
additional advice to businesses about how to treat customers who struggled to meet their 
CMPs during the pandemic.
Looking into what happened, Mr and Mrs R were granted six payment deferrals in line with 
the recommendations made by the FCA. Mr and Mrs R didnt make their CMPs after this 
period ended. And while I appreciate they contacted their premier banking account manager 
for assistance, and didnt receive a response within the expected timeframes, I cant see that 
Mr and Mrs R contributed to their mortgage in the meantime. 
The premier account manager has since explained that he was on holiday at the time and 
when he returned he passed Mr and Mrs Rs concerns over to the debt management team 
as he wouldnt be able to assist them himself. I do agree NatWest could have done more to 
discuss the situation with Mr and Mrs R at the time, but I think the consequences Mr and 
Mrs R have complained about are the result of not having made their CMPs for four months 
and requiring an arrangement to pay back the arrears. 
NatWest has taken responsibility for the arrangement Mr and Mrs R made in 
December 2020 having broken, but I havent seen any evidence to support why its said that. 
We dont have a call recording, but we do have the call handlers notes that were made at the 
time of the call. As the notes were written down and logged the same day, I would expect 
them to be the most accurate reflection of what was discussed at the time. 
The call notes say that the arrangement was set up to start from January 2021 but as the 
call took place at the end of December, and the first payment would be due in just a couple 
of days, Mr and Mrs R would need to make the first payment manually and from then on 
their CMP amount would be taken by direct debit. Looking at the dates involved, this would 
have been the only way to set it up, and the direct debit appears to have been in place by 
February 2021 as planned. So, I think its more likely than not the arrangement broke as 
Mr and Mrs R didnt make the full manual payment when they should have. 
Mr R says he understood he was only supposed to make the top up amount for the arrears 
manually  he thought the remainder of the payment would be made by the direct debit. And 
it does appear Mr R thought this as I can see that Mr and Mrs R made a partial payment in 
January. But, based on the call notes, I think its more likely than not Mr R misunderstood 
what was said in the call and he has accepted that this is a possibility. So, its clear there was some kind of misunderstanding during that call, but I havent seen 
enough to persuade me NatWest was responsible for that. And while I appreciate Mr R says 
any misunderstanding could have been avoided if NatWest had sent a letter confirming the 
details of the arrangement, I think its unlikely a letter would have been received on time to 
prevent any issues. I say this because NatWest has confirmed there were delays sending 
letters as a result of a backlog due to the pandemic. And the first payment was due in just a 
few days, around the New Year period, when there would likely have been postal delays. 
Following this, the payments continued to be taken by direct debit from February onwards. 
So, the impact was limited to the first missed payment that would need to be built into a new 
arrangement. And, any possible impact on Mr and Mrs Rs credit reports for breaking the 
arrangement. 
Mr and Mrs R say NatWest should have sent a letter to inform them the arrangement had 
broken, and that this would have reduced the knock-on effects. NatWest has accepted this. 
And I agree Mr and Mrs R could have contacted NatWest to put the arrangement back in 
place sooner than they did if theyd received a letter about the broken arrangement. But I 
also think its reasonable to say Mr and Mrs R should have realised something was wrong 
when their direct debit wasnt taken, and their bank account balance didnt reduce. I would 
have expected them to notice this considering the circumstances, but I cant see that they 
contacted NatWest to query it at the time.
NatWest has since confirmed that its taken steps to remove all adverse data from Mr and 
Mrs Rs credit files even though it didnt have to, so Mr and Mrs R have avoided legitimate 
adverse data on their credit files. I know Mr and Mrs R think the errors NatWest has 
accepted also mean its responsible for them having to pay interest on their credit card and 
for being unable to apply for further lending, but I think this is really the result of Mr Rs 
employment situation and not having been able to contribute to their CMPs for four months. 
An arrangement was required to clear those arrears, which means Mr and Mrs Rs outgoings 
would increase until the debt was repaid in full. And, unfortunately, due to the 
misunderstanding that occurred in January 2021, it would take Mr and Mrs R a few more 
months to clear the arrears in full. I think its worth noting NatWest could have demanded the 
arrears be repaid in full, but instead allowed Mr and Mrs R to repay them over time. 
So, considering everything, while NatWest could have communicated better at times, I dont 
think its responsible for Mr and Mrs Rs arrears or for how long its taken them to pay the 
arrears back. NatWest has awarded £400 compensation in total to say sorry for any 
mistakes it made and thats more than I would award under the circumstances. It follows, I 
dont think NatWest needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman