DRN-2082267
The complaint
Mr T on behalf of Company S is unhappy New Wave Capital Limited, trading as Capital on 
Tap (Capital on Tap) is pursuing Company S for the outstanding debt on a credit card 
account taken out by one of Company Ss previous directors.
Mr T is bringing the complaint in his capacity as director of Company S, so I will be referring 
to him throughout the decision where necessary.
What happened
On 12 March 2018 Mr S, an active company director of Company S at the time, applied for a 
credit card online with Capital on Tap. Capital on Tap told us the application was reviewed in 
accordance with its underwriting policy and procedures taking into account Mr Ss position 
as a company director on Companies House and his own personal credit profile. The 
application was approved with a credit limit of £2,500.
Company S said the other directors were unaware the facility had been taken out and the 
card had been taken out fraudulently. It therefore requested the company name be taken off 
the account.
Capital on Tap said that as the account holder was an active director of the company at the 
time of the application, the company details could not be removed from the account and any 
changes needed to be done through the main account holder.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said Capital on Tap hadnt done anything 
wrong in approving the credit agreement and pursuing Company S for the outstanding debt.
Mr T did not agree. He said he had significant financial control of Company S, so Capital on 
Tap should not have agreed the facility and he wont be repaying the debt.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint for the same reasons as the investigator.
In order to uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Capital on Tap did 
something wrong.
Mr S told Capital on Tap that he had authority from Company S, and that he was a company 
director. Capital on Tap completed the checks they were required to do and confirmed that 
he was in fact a director of Company S on Companies House. I can see from Companies 
House this was the case at the time of the application.
Mr T has mentioned that he had significant financial control, but this doesnt appear to have 
happened until May 2019. 
Although I havent seen any internal company agreement, Capital on Tap wouldnt have 
known about any company arrangement between the directors. 
I realise Mr T will be disappointed, but I cant fairly say that Capital on Tap have done 
anything wrong in approving the credit account and pursuing Company S for this debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman