DRN-2836884
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint concerns a delay in the transfer of his ISA from Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited (HL) to a new provider.
What happened
Mr B met with the new provider towards the end of 2019 and as a result decided to transfer 
his existing execution-only stocks and shares ISA from HL to a managed service with the 
new provider. The process began with Mr B completing a transfer form on 9 January 2020. 
The new provider then submitted a request to HL for an in-specie transfer of Mr Bs holdings. 
This request was received by HL on 24 January 2020. 
It then became apparent that four of Mr Bs five holdings couldnt be transferred in-specie, so 
the new provider confirmed on 10 February 2020 that the transfer should be made as cash. 
The sales of the holdings were subsequently made on 5 March 2020 with the transfer 
completing on 11 March 2020. 
Over the period between January 2020 and March 2020 the value of Mr Bs holdings fell 
from around £148,000 to just over £140,000. This prompted him to complain to HL that 
delays in the administration of the transfer had led to him incurring a loss. 
HL accepted that the level of service provided to Mr B had not been as good as it couldve 
been, as the transfer had taken longer than its standard timings. It offered £150 to 
acknowledge this. But it didnt accept that it was responsible for any loss in the value of the 
investments. 
HL said the receipt of an instruction from the new provider to make the ISA transfer as cash 
was not the same as receiving an instruction from Mr B to place a sale of the holdings. HL 
noted that the sale of the holdings was generally the final step in the process of 
administering such a transfer (to keep the amount of time spent out of the market to a 
minimum) and until that point Mr B had retained control of the investments. So, if hed 
wanted to sell the holdings at any point prior to 5 March 2020, he couldve done so. 
Mr B referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator felt the £150 offered by HL 
was a reasonable resolution to the matter. He said, in brief: 
HLs terms indicated that a cash transfer would normally be completed within 30 
days.
A letter sent to Mr B on 3 February 2020 indicated that a stock transfer (as has been 
requested at that point) could take six weeks or longer.
HL received the initial transfer request on 24 January 2020 and acknowledged it 11 
days later, on 3 February 2020. This delay did appear to be excessive.
The receipt of a valid instruction referred to in HLs terms could be interpreted in 
two ways in this case  as the receipt of the initial in-specie transfer request, or that 
of the second request to transfer as cash. But either way the transfer had taken place 
outside of both time frames  six weeks and six days after the initial request and 31 
days after the second. It was because of this that HL had offered compensation. 
In respect of any loss caused by the delay, a comparison with the amount transferred 
following the sale of the holdings on 5 March 2022 and what wouldve been 
transferred if the sales had taken place earlier on a date that wouldve met both time 
limit requirements  27 February 2020  showed thered been no loss. 
As Mr B had initially requested the transfer be made in-specie, it appeared that he 
hadnt been intending to sell. The sales only took place because an in-specie transfer 
wasnt possible. And although there had been a delay it didnt appear to have caused 
a loss. As such, HLs offer of £150 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. He felt that HLs time limits to complete a transfer 
were excessive and resulted in an unreasonable delay in the sales taking place. He 
considered that the transfer shouldve been a much quicker process, with the sales taking no 
more than around four days, which would have resulted in a sale date in early February 
2020 rather than 5 March 2020. So, that date is what any comparison to determine loss 
should be based upon. 
Mr B said that if his new provider been aware that it would take HL so long to make the 
sales, action couldve been taken to speed up the process. Given that HL appeared to have 
ignored the instructions to sell for over two weeks, it shouldve alerted the new provider to 
the alternative of Mr B issuing a sale instruction in the interim. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. While I can appreciate Mr Bs disappointment that the value of his 
investments fell during the period in question, I dont think any loss incurred was the fault of 
HL. 
A transfer request such as that received by HL on 10 February 2020 (once it had been 
established that an in-specie transfer wasnt possible) should have completed within thirty 
days. I think this is in line with general industry standards and practice, as is the sale of the 
holdings being the final stage in the transfer process.
HL acknowledged that on this occasion it had taken slightly longer than its standard timings 
and offered Mr B £150 for the inconvenienced this had caused. 
The investigator felt this was fair but also looked to see whether if the sales had been made 
within the intended maximum term  using a hypothetical date of 27 February 2020  Mr B 
wouldve been better off. His calculations showed that he wouldnt have been. 
I accept that given the market movements at the time, it seems likely Mr B wouldve been 
better off if the sale and transfer had completed prior to 27 February 2020  for instance on 
the earlier date that he suggested in his response to the investigators view. This is the crux 
of his argument. 
But while I accept the process could have completed more quickly (as noted, the 30-day 
period is a maximum) there was no guarantee given to Mr B that it would do. I can 
understand why he might consider 30 days to be an unreasonable length of time for this type of transfer to take place. But I think its fair that HL builds in some leeway to allow for 
external factors that might impact on the efficiency of the process. 
As the investigator has shown that if the transfer had completed within HLs standard timings 
there wouldve been no loss to Mr B, I think its offer of £150 for the inconvenience caused 
by the delay is fair. I dont think theres any basis to conclude that the transfer shouldve 
completed in the sort of time frame indicated by Mr B  significantly less than 30 days. 
I note Mr Bs comment that HL couldve alerted his new provider to an alternative process 
that wouldve expedited the sales  Mr B issuing separate sale instructions. But I dont think 
there was any requirement upon HL to do so and the new provider couldve made such a 
suggestion independently.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that the offer of £150 compensation by 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman