DRN-2925779
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited has registered a marker about him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr B was contacted by Starling Bank to provide information about the source of some 
payments he received into his account on 16 and 17 December 2020. He said these were 
received for a friend and later provided some screenshots from social media to support this. 
He doesnt think that the marker was recorded fairly as he had no idea these payments were 
fraudulently obtained. And this is affecting his ability to obtain an account elsewhere and 
receive student finance.
Starling Bank said it had received reports from other businesses that money that had been 
paid into Mr Bs account was fraudulent. This had quickly been transferred out. When it first 
asked him for information about this he said he was abroad and with the friend involved so 
things were agreed verbally. It was only after his account was closed and he challenged the 
CIFAS marker that he provided the screenshots. But when it received them in January 2021 
they were marked as taking place today not in December 2020 and there was no other 
evidence.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the bar for 
adding a marker is a high one. And he had considered Mr Bs explanation of what happened. 
Mr B said that the friend was someone whod helped him before. And Mr B had been on 
holiday this time when he was contacted and had agreed to help his friend. He had agreed 
to pay his friend in cash and so had used the money himself because he saw it as his. Mr B 
said that when first contacted by Starling Bank he hadnt realised the seriousness of the 
situation. He said that the screenshots for Starling Bank were ones hed taken on that day as 
he often did this with important conversations, and he denies taking it on the date he handed 
it to Starling Bank in January 2021.
Our investigator had considered an expanded set of screenshots from Mr B including these 
messages and now dated 16 and 17 December 2021. He knew Mr B had explained that time 
differences could affect the timings. But he noted that there was a discrepancy in the 
minutes recorded for some of the comparable entries and that a change in time zones 
wouldnt be an explanation for that. He also noted that Mr B had moved money out of his 
account long before there had been any reference to this being the arrangement taking 
account of any possible time differences. And Mr B had also received and moved other 
money on before the time his friend had even told him more payments would be coming. 
Although Mr B had said there had been a separate conversation on a social media app that 
couldnt capture messages he didnt have any evidence to support that. And the tone of the 
messages he had provided indicated that this was the first time that this had been 
discussed. Mr B had said he had a medical condition that affected his ability to make 
decisions. It was right that he had recently accessed treatment, but he hadnt provided any 
evidence of this at the time to Starling Bank or that this then led to a lapse of judgement.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that our investigator was 
biased and was never going to help him. He had sent Starling Bank the same screenshots 
wed had, and the difference must be due to multiple time zones and minutes being wrong 
on his phone clock. We hadnt taken into account that some information cant be accessed 
after a period and especially when a contact has been blocked. He went on to say that he 
had been placed under duress by this former friend and was dealing with a lot of health 
issues. He offered to repay the money involved if the marker was removed and he referred 
to similar complaints this service has dealt with where the outcome has been different. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Starling Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. I will be looking as I say at the 
detailed individual circumstances of this complaint which will differ to others this service has 
looked at and I also apply my own judgement here.
The investigator has set out the background and Ive looked at what has been provided. I 
can see that having been asked about money received Mr B wrote on 20 December 2020 to 
Starling Bank to say that as he had already explained his friend was with me when he 
asked me and it was a verbal agreement, to which I asked no questions and did what he 
asked and that I have no documents as its nothing to do with me and I trusted him to 
complete his end of the bargainI have given you all the information that I have.. He later 
went on to confirm that was the position on 22 December 2020 too when he said that to his 
knowledge his account of what had happened was legal and plausible. 
Im afraid I dont think its credible for him to say that he didnt realise the seriousness of 
what was involved and so not to provide copies of screenshots. His position now is that he 
already taken the screenshots which explains why they had been marked Today when sent. 
And I can understand why Starling Bank was sceptical about this information when it was 
later sent in. I have considered what he said about his health, but I dont see any established 
link to his behaviour and decisions at that time. 
I have looked closely at the expanded run of screenshots hes sent to this service which as 
he says include all lines of the chat sent to Starling Bank. If I put aside possible issues with 
the times in minutes and accept these at face value as being what Mr B says they are then I 
still agree with our investigator that these dont support his version of events. He had clearly 
quickly moved this money from his account to buy trainers, he says,  and deposit money in 
his account at a different financial business before any agreement that he would be paying 
his friend in cash. And he had moved money relating to the second and third payments 
before being told that these were coming. I appreciate he says that there were other 
conversations to support what happened but without seeing that I cant put weight on this. 
And it does seem to me too that the nature of the exchange was that this was the first time it 
had been agreed. The first reference to this is timed at 17:09 on 17 December 2020 when 
Mr B having offered then to transfer the money agrees to pay cash when he is back from 
holiday. Thats also around the time his friend refers to other payments coming in which 
even accounting for the time difference had already been both received and transferred on.
Mr B says when he returned from holiday on 23 December 2020 he was tired and wanted to 
provide the cash to his friend the next day. He doesnt say he questioned that friend about 
the legitimacy of the money given the contact from Starling Bank. But he says he was placed under duress to provide this money although has no evidence of that. His position is that he 
gave his friend the money - about £1,650 - that evening in cash from money he had 
available. 
I have considered whether Mr B was an unwitting participant in what happened and whether 
he ought reasonably to have realised that these payments werent legitimate. Im afraid his 
account isnt a credible one for the reasons Ive given, and not least because he has 
provided later information that he emphatically said he didnt have before. And that 
information doesnt at its highest support what he says happened even if I accept his 
difficulty in obtaining anything else. So, I think its most likely he reasonably knew that these 
funds werent legitimately obtained and thats why he moved this money on quickly.
Starling Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr B received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Starling Bank was fair to apply the marker, 
based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Starling Bank needs to have enough information to 
make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Bs account of events and the evidence Starling Bank has provided, Im 
satisfied that Starling Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr B received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Starling Bank 
at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Starling Bank had grounds to believe that Mr B had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I appreciate what Mr B says about the impact of the marker but Im afraid that I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require Starling Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman