DRN-3074658
The complaint
Miss M complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. delayed paying her Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance claim 
after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Miss M made a claim on her GAP insurance after her car was stolen. She said she was told 
it would be settled in 12 days, but she said it took 42 days for her claim to be paid. In the 
meantime, Miss M had to hire a car and was caused stress at a difficult time. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He saw that it took 11 
days for Mapfre to allocate the case to a case handler, which was in keeping with the 
expectations set for Miss M. But he thought there was a delay after this and Mapfre didnt 
communicate effectively with Miss M about this. So he thought Mapfre had caused Miss M to 
stay in hire for longer than needed. He thought Mapfre should reimburse Miss M for seven 
days hire and pay her £30 compensation for poor communication and stress. 
Mapfre replied that the policy didnt cover consequential losses. It said Miss M hadnt 
provided all the required documents on time and so it couldnt have started processing the 
claim earlier. It said it then took 13 days to pay the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
The policy terms and conditions dont include a timeframe for dealing with claims. So Ive 
considered whether Mapfre dealt with Miss Ms claim in a reasonable timescale and 
reasonably managed her expectations.
Mapfre said that when Miss M made her claim it asked her for a number of documents to 
support her claim. I can see that these were listed in an email sent to Miss M after she made 
her claim. 
But Mapfre didnt have the correct email address for Miss M. Mapfre said it had what had 
been provided by Miss Ms dealership. But I havent seen that this was checked with Miss M 
when she called to make her claim. And so I cant see that Miss M received Mapfres request 
for documents. But she did send some in. So I presume that she was advised of what to 
send in one of her calls to Mapfre. And so I think its unfair for Mapfre to say that Miss M 
caused a delay by not providing her documents in order to start the processing of her claim. 
Miss M was anxious for her claim to be settled and she was told this would be dealt with in a 
little over 10 days from the date of her claim. But this wasnt correct as Mapfre has since told 
us that the 10 days starts from when it has received all the necessary documents from the 
consumer. So I think Mapfre didnt fairly manage Miss Ms expectations. 
When Miss M had provided the last of the necessary documents, after shed called Mapfre 
for an update, it then took Mapfre a further three working days to upload this. The claim was 
settled a further 10 working days later. Mapfre thought this was reasonable, but I cant see 
that it was what Miss M had been led to expect. 
I think Mapfres mistake in incorrectly recording Miss Ms email address caused a delay in 
Miss M providing all the needed documents. The ones she provided were uploaded and 
there was a delay in a week before the final document was received and uploaded. So I 
think Mapfre caused a weeks avoidable delay in Miss Ms claim and it should reasonably 
compensate her for this. 
Mapfre said consequential losses, such as car hire, were excluded from cover by the policys 
terms and conditions. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to apply this exclusion in 
Miss Ms circumstances as the issue is about avoidable delays in processing the claim, not 
dealing with the loss. 
Miss M has shown that it cost her £20.50 a day for car hire. I think Mapfre should reasonably 
reimburse Miss M for a weeks hire, £143.50. 
Miss M had to call Mapfre for updates. And I think Mapfre could have communicated better 
with Miss M, for example by telling her there was a missing document. I think Mapfre should 
reasonably compensate Miss M for this poor communication and for not managing her 
expectations. The investigator recommended that Mapfre should pay Miss M $30 
compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published 
guidance. 
Putting things right
I require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to 
reimburse Miss M £143.50 for her car hire costs and to pay her £30 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor communication. 
My final decision
For the reasons give above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to carry out the redress 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman