DRN-3369910
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd unfairly refused a claim on 
her pet insurance policy.
Reference to Building Block includes the agents which administer the policy on its 
behalf.
What happened
In August 2021 Mrs B took her dog, who Ill refer to as R, to the vets because he was 
limping. Vets took x-rays and referred R to a specialist. The specialist operated on R to 
repair a ruptured ligament. Mrs B claimed for the treatment but Building Block turned the 
claim down. It said R was overweight and Mrs Bs policy excluded cover in those 
circumstances.
Mrs B brought her complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She 
didn't think it was fair for Building Block to turn down the claim because R was overweight. 
So she said Building Block should reassess it. Building Block didnt agree so the complaint's 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it.
Mrs Bs policy says that it won't cover claims where Rs weight results in him needing 
treatment. Building Block said that vets had noted R was overweight. It said that while the 
cause of ligament ruptures is multifactorial, veterinary studies had noted that weight is one 
such factor. On that basis it turned down Mrs B's claim for Rs treatment for his ligament 
rupture from August 2021 onwards.
In order for Building Block to fairly exclude cover for Mrs Bs claim it would need to show that 
it was more likely than not that R being overweight resulted in his ligament rupture. But I 
dont think its done that here. 
I've seen that vets did refer to R being overweight but I havent seen anything that explicitly 
links Rs weight with his ligament issue. Further, I've also seen that the vet who operated on 
R said that ligament problems in dogs are regarded as a gradual degeneration leading to a 
rupture. He added that Rs weight hadn't been shown to be the underlying cause of his injury 
and as such it wasnt reasonable to decline the claim on those grounds. 
I note that Building Block hasnt provided any additional evidence  beyond its comments 
that Rs weight caused his ligament issue. And the expert evidence I've seen, from the vets 
who treated R, havent concluded that his weight resulted in the requirement for treatment. 
So, I don't think Building Block has shown that it was more likely than not that Rs weight 
caused the issue. It follows that I don't think it turned down Mrs B's claim fairly. So, I think it 
should reassess the claim, without applying the exclusion for Rs weight.
In the interests of completeness I'm satisfied that it would be fair for Building Block to treat 
both the investigations into Rs ligament trouble (including the x-rays taken in August 2021) 
and the subsequent surgery as one condition for the purposes of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Building Block Insurance 
PCC Ltd to reassess Mrs Bs claim for the investigations and treatment of her dog's 
ligament issue applying the remaining terms, limits and excesses of the policy without 
applying the exclusion for R being overweight.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman