DRN-2322266
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited held him at fault for a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M was involved in an incident with another driver. He reported this to the police and Aviva 
but didnt make a claim. The other drivers insurer held Mr M at fault and Aviva discussed 
this with Mr M. Aviva later asked Mr M to comment on the other drivers version of events. 
But he didnt respond to this or a subsequent email. So as Aviva said it had no information to 
contest the other drivers claim, it settled it on a without prejudice basis. Mr M said he 
learned of this some years later.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva 
hadnt received a response from Mr M. So she thought it was unlikely to be able to prove he 
wasnt at fault. So it had settled the claim as it was entitled to do by the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr M replied that Aviva hadnt told him it had settled the claim and recorded a fault against 
him. He thought this could have had serious consequences for him. He agreed that hed 
received one email from Aviva about the claim, but not the second.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr M the same as someone else in his position. 
I think Aviva is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr M to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr M has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
I can see that Aviva had two conflicting versions of events. It had discussed the incident with 
Mr M, and he provided video footage of the other driver after the incident. He said it showed 
him leaving the scene without stopping. But the video didnt show the collision and there 
were no independent witnesses. Mr M also provided a sketch of the incident. 
The other driver made a claim for injuries. So Aviva emailed Mr M setting out the other 
drivers version of events and asking for his comments. Aviva said Mr M didnt respond to 
this email, so it said it sent a further email which Mr M said he didnt receive. I can see that 
this was sent to the same email address and so I have no reason to doubt that Aviva sent it 
correctly. Aviva said it took the lack of response as Mr Ms acceptance of the other drivers 
version of events. 
Mr M said hed had previous phone conversations with Aviva about the incident. And I can 
see that it recorded his version of events and reviewed the CCTV footage. But I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to ask for Mr Ms comments on the other drivers statement as it 
differed so much from his own. The other insurer was threatening legal action and I think it 
was reasonable for Aviva to consider how the matter could be defended if it went to court.
Mr M thought the emails should have contained some sort of warning. I would expect that 
Aviva would warn Mr M if his policy was likely to be cancelled. But I think Mr M has a duty to 
co-operate with his insurers investigation of a claim. 
So I think Aviva reasonably investigated the claim and, because of Mr Ms lack of response, 
it reasonably decided it would be unable to successfully defend it. And so it settled the other 
drivers claim on a without prejudice basis, as its entitled to do by the policy terms and 
conditions. So I cant say that Aviva did anything wrong in this. 
Aviva didnt tell Mr M that it had settled the claim. It said this isnt its procedure. I think it 
would have been good customer service if it had done. But I think Mr M knew that the other 
driver was pursuing a claim and he could have asked Aviva how it was settled if he was so 
minded. And so he could then have provided accurate information to his future insurers. As it 
turns out, as far as I can see, this fortunately didnt have a negative impact for Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman