The complaint
Mrs B complains that her AA European Breakdown Cover policy was mis-sold to her by
Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA Insurance). It didn't include the parts 
and labour cover she thought it did.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were on holiday in Spain when their car broke down. As the car couldn't be 
fixed by the roadside they were towed to a local garage under their AA European Breakdown 
policy.
The garage quoted 1600 euros to repair the car. Mr and Mrs B were surprised to learn that 
their breakdown cover didn't include any contribution towards parts and labour. Mr B said he 
recalled being told about cover to the value of £500 during the sales call. They didn't accept 
the quote and their car was recovered to the UK under the policy.
the sales call
Mrs B spoke to an agent in AA Insurances European breakdown department. The agent 
asked her about the level of cover she was looking to buy. He asked if she currently paid for 
all repairs needed to the vehicle, and she answered yes. He then asked:
" if the vehicle needs parts or garage work done after a breakdown, would you want 
a contribution towards the repair costs? "
Mrs B replied:
"No, I dont think so."
Next, the agent gave Mrs B an overview of the cover options available. He said:
"So, the first one gives you unlimited call outs at the roadside if you breakdown . 
The second option gives you roadside assistance which is capped at the value of £300 
for your whole trip "
The agent confirmed that under both options the car would be towed to a local garage if it 
couldn't be repaired at the roadside.
Mrs B asked for a quote for both. The agent replied that the full cover would be £156.38, 
and the light cover would be £146.61. Mrs B passed the phone to Mr B to continue the 
conversation.
Mr Bs first question to the agent was:
If we were to breakdown, how much would you pay for the breakdown?
DRN-1904310The agent explained that under full cover theyd get unlimited call outs for assistance , but 
under the other cover theyd get roadside assistance up to the value of £300. Mr B said,
£300, right thats the one Im after  so its up to £300 . The agent then offered to see if he 
could reduce the premium by quoting for an annual policy, rather than a single trip.
Mr B asked again about the difference between the levels of cover. He was told that the full 
cover was unlimited. He said, "so thats unlimited, for recovery, unlimited, so whatever 
happens to the car ?" The agent clarified that under the full policy he could call them out 
as many times as he wanted. Mr B replied:
yeah, its not that, its more about the, if I call them out once, how much would you go 
up to the value of on one visit?
The agent said he couldn't give an average cost for a single call out. Mr B said theyd 
looked at some other policies which he didn't think were good value because even if it cost 
him £1,000 these policies would only cover up to £150-200. The agent then quoted £114.21 
for the light cover, and £121.92 for the full cover for an annual policy.
Mr B then left the call momentarily to deal with something in the background. When he 
returned they spoke about how either cover could be £10 cheaper if set up on a direct debit 
basis. Mr B then consulted Mrs B and opted to take the policy at £111.92. The agent said 
that the policy details would be sent via email. He confirmed theyd taken out the annual
multi-trip full cover.
the terms and conditions
The email sent to Mrs B included brief policy details which included the words "Optional
Parts and Labour Cover" with an X beside them. In the Terms and Conditions Booklet the
Overview read:
"The main features of cover are:
Roadside assistance and emergency repair
Alternative travel arrangements in Europe
Emergency accommodation in Europe
Location and despatch of spare parts within Europe
Vehicle recovery
Parts and Labour cover (optional benefit )"
And in the Policy Summary under the heading "Significant and Unusual Exclusions or
Limitations" it read:
AA European Breakdown Cover will not cover Parts and Labour (other than labour 
costs incurred at the roadside) unless the optional benefit has been purchased "
AA Insurances response to the complaint
In their final response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint AA Insurance said that they couldn't 
agree the policy had been mis-sold. They said Mrs B had declined to take the parts and 
labour cover offered, and this wasn't discussed again in the rest of the call.our investigators view
Our investigator didn't uphold this complaint. She agreed that Mrs B had declined parts and 
labour cover and didn't think anything the agent told them during the call was incorrect.
responses to the view
Mr B didn't agree. He said hed asked twice during the sales call about "£300 parts and 
labour to fix the car" and was told it was in the cover. He asked for an Ombudsman to look at 
everything again.
my provisional decision
I looked at the case and issued a provisional decision as it wasn't clear AA Insurance had 
had a formal opportunity to respond to the investigator's view. I said I wasn't minded to 
uphold Mrs B's complaint. I wrote:
"There was clearly a misunderstanding here, and I can see how Mr B formed the 
impression he did. But that doesn't mean AA Insurance made an error. Having 
listened to the sales call its clear to me that the policyholder, Mrs B, declined the 
optional parts and labour cover at the outset. So for the remainder of the call the agent 
was explaining the different levels of cover for roadside assistance only. He explained 
they had two options, unlimited roadside assistance, or roadside assistance capped at 
£300.
Roadside assistance meant exactly that, assistance provided at the roadside. The 
agent said this included the cost of towing the car to a garage if it couldn't be fixed at 
the roadside.
I dont think the agent made any suggestion that the £300 cap related to repairs done 
beyond the roadside (i.e. at a garage).
When Mr B took over the call the agent again clarified that the options were unlimited 
call outs for assistance or roadside assistance up to the value of £300.
Mr B did make it clear that he wasn't just interested in how many times they could be 
rescued during a trip. He said he wanted to know how much AA Insurance would "pay 
for the breakdown"; how much they would go up to the value of for one call out.
But I dont think anything he asked should have prompted the sales agent to revisit the 
optional parts and labour cover question. I think it was reasonable for the agent to 
answer Mr B in terms of what theyd be covered for at the roadside, because Mrs B 
had already declined parts and labour cover.
Im also conscious that the level of cover purchased was clear from the email they 
received from AA Insurance before they went to Spain  an email which included a link 
to the full terms and conditions. And the X clearly showed theyd not taken out the 
optional parts and labour cover. So if Mr and Mrs B wanted to change their minds and 
opt for parts and labour cover beyond the roadside, they had an opportunity to do so.
Mr and Mrs B also received the benefit of the cover they bought. They were given 
roadside assistance, towed to a local garage, provided with alternative travel 
(replacement vehicles) in Europe, and their car was recovered from Spain to the UK.Its, of course, unfortunate that their car couldn't be fixed at the roadside, and I dont 
doubt that impacted on their holiday. But that doesn't mean they were covered for 
repairs that needed to be done at a garage, and I dont think the sales agent said they 
would be.
Overall, I dont think the policy was mis-sold."
AA Insurance accepted my provisional decision.
In response to the provisional decision Mr B, on behalf of Mrs B, explained that their car had 
been damaged during recovery to the UK, and that the underwriter of the policy had only 
paid for the front to be repaired, not the rear. He said they remained unhappy about this and 
had continued to have related problems with the car which had caused its value to reduce. 
Mr B didn't make any further comment about the sale of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any detailed comments in response to my provisional decision I 
see no reason to depart from it. For the reasons I set out in that decision, I still dont think the 
policy was mis-sold.
I understand that Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the handling and outcome of their damage 
claim, but that is subject to a separate complaint against the underwriter of the policy, not AA 
Insurance. It's been explained to Mr and Mrs B that this decision only addresses the mis-
sale complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Automobile 
Association Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman