DRN-2488851
The complaint
Mrs F, as the representative of the estate of Mr F, complains that Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined a claim on her late husbands joint level term life 
assurance policy, cancelled the policy from the start and offered to refund the premiums. 
What happened
In April 2004 Mrs F applied for a level term life assurance for both her and her husband, 
Mr F, with a company Ill refer to as N. This was done during a face to face meeting with a 
financial adviser from N. In May 2004 Mr and Mrs F met with the advisor to complete the 
application and sign the relevant paperwork. The application was accepted on 9 June 2004 
and the policy went live in November 2004. The policy was later transferred to L&G and so 
for ease, in this decision I will refer to L&G. 
Sadly, in late 2018 Mr F passed away. So, Mrs F tried to claim on the policy. To help its 
assessment of the claim, L&G requested information from Mr Fs GP. After reviewing the 
evidence received, it felt there was information about Mr Fs health that hed failed to tell 
them about when he took out the policy.
L&G said that Mr Fs medical records showed he had blood tests in February 2004 to check 
his liver functioning  and the results were abnormal. And, in early April Mr F was prescribed 
chlordiazepoxide and Vitamin B complex which L&G noted are commonly used as a 
treatment for the management of acute alcohol withdrawal syndrome. In late April 2004 it 
said Mr F went to his GP about his psoriasis. As part of this appointment, alcohol was 
discussed and the records noted Mr F had an alcohol problem. Mr F told the GP hed had a 
drink when he received some bad news and he was advised to follow up with counselling 
services. In June 2004 he saw the GP again and it was noted Mr F was still drinking and 
wasnt able to contact an alcohol recovery charity.
L&G asked Mrs F if there was any reason Mr F hadnt disclosed this information. Mrs F said 
she may have completed the application for Mr F, and she wouldnt have known about the 
GP appointments. Mrs F also noted that drinking wasnt an issue for Mr F  he followed the 
doctors advice and after a couple of attempts he was teetotal.
L&G said had it known the details of Mr Fs alcohol problem, it wouldnt have offered Mr F 
cover. L&G felt Mr F had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his health by failing to 
share this information. And so it declined the claim, avoided the policy (cancelled the policy 
from the start) and offered to refund the premiums. 
Mrs F didnt think this was fair, so she complained. But L&G didnt change its decision so 
Mrs F then brought her concerns to our service.
Mrs F told us that she thinks she met with the financial advisor on her own initially. 
When Mr F later signed the forms confirming his answers to the application questions, he 
was rushing as the branch was closing. Mrs F also noted that they werent told what a minor 
illness was in any of the meetings. Mrs F felt Mr F had answered the questions correctly at 
that time. Mrs F also raised concerns about the extent of medical information L&G had 
obtained when considering the claim. 
L&G told us that Mr F was receiving treatment for psoriasis and alcohol issues in the months 
before the application and it said both of these should have prompted a reasonable person 
to provide full details of both.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They believed Mr F had made a 
misrepresentation in relation to alcohol but not psoriasis. They thought this 
misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or reckless, but thought the evidence 
showed L&G would never have offered the policy  so they thought it had acted reasonably 
in the circumstances.
Mrs F disagreed so the matters been passed to me for a decision.
I thought it was likely Id reach a different decision to the investigator, so I contacted both 
L&G and Mrs F to discuss my thoughts. In particular, I did think Mr F had made a 
misrepresentation in relation to his psoriasis, but I didnt think the underwriting evidence 
supported L&Gs suggestion that it wouldnt have offered cover. Ive carefully considered the 
additional comments and information they provided before reaching this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry for Mrs Fs loss and would like to pass on my condolences.
Id like to start by saying that Im aware that Mrs F has raised some concerns about the 
dates of the medical information that L&G requested when assessing this claim. In particular 
she feels it asked for information outside of the two-year window outlined in the relevant 
question. Because this isnt a complaint Mrs F has raised with L&G, I cannot comment on 
this here. And thats because the rules our service operates under, the Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP) in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook, say businesses have to 
be given an opportunity to respond to concerns before our service can look into them. 
If Mrs F would like to complain about the extent of information L&G requested, she can do 
so, but she will need to raise this directly with L&G. However, Id like to reassure Mrs F that 
Im satisfied its reasonable to rely on the information I have considered within this decision.
Ive taken into account the appropriate industry guidance that was in place at the time L&G 
made its decision. This is called, Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI 
Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income
Protection Insurance Products April 2013. I will refer to this as the code.
The code states insurers should consider all of the circumstances when assessing a claim. 
Insurers should think about how clear the questions asked at application were and whether 
an intermediary was involved. Consideration should also be given to whether the customer 
had the opportunity to check their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately 
prominent. 
The code outlines that for a misrepresentation to be categorised as deliberate or reckless a 
customer had to have known, on the balance of probabilities, that the information given was 
both incorrect and relevant to the insurer or that the customer acted without any care as to 
whether it was either correct or relevant. It can then avoid the policy and decline the claim. 
The code stresses this should be confined to the most serious cases of misrepresentation. Alternatively, for a misrepresentation to be categorised as careless, a reasonable person 
would have to have considered that the information was relevant to the insurer and the 
consumer must have failed to take reasonable care. This covers anything from an 
understandable oversight or an inadvertent mistake to serious negligence. For an insurer to 
avoid the policy and return the premiums, the code also says the careless 
misrepresentation/s would also have to have resulted in the application being declined. If the 
insurer would have offered cover but charged higher premiums, the code allows the insurer 
to settle the claims proportionately.
Was there an error in Mr Fs application?
I appreciate what Mrs F has told us about drinking not being a problem for Mr F and Im 
aware he held down a job and that Mrs F felt drinking didnt have a substantial impact on his 
life. But whilst Mr F may have had times when he controlled his drinking, the medical 
evidence Ive seen suggests that at times Mr F has had a problem with alcohol.
L&G werent told about Mr Fs alleged alcohol problem or his psoriasis. And it thinks it should 
have been. It thought this was deliberate or reckless misrepresentation by Mr F. There were 
no specific questions on the application about alcohol or psoriasis. But the question L&G 
thought Mr F answered incorrectly was:
within the last two years have you attended or been advised to attend any doctor, hospital or 
clinic for any form of advice, opinion, operation, treatment or test OR are you subject to 
regular medical review, receiving medicate treatment or attention? (minor ailments 
excluded) Answer: No
I think this question is broad and L&G has acknowledged it is a catch all question in its 
claim notes. So, Ive kept in mind the codes guidance which states that not much weight 
should be given to catch all or memory test questions when considering if Mr Fs medical 
history indicates he should have answered yes to this question.
Alcohol
The records supplied by Mr Fs GP are not as comprehensive as Id like. There are empty 
consultations and consultations where medication is prescribed but no detail is provided as 
to why. So, Ive taken an objective view based on the evidence available to me. And having 
looked at Mr Fs medical records, on balance, I think L&G were reasonable in deciding Mr F 
should have answered yes in respect of alcohol issues in response to this question. But I 
dont agree with L&G about all of the matters it thinks should have prompted Mr F to answer 
yes here  Ill explain why. 
L&G highlighted that Mr F was prescribed two medications which are commonly used to 
treat alcohol withdrawal. It also noted hed had a liver function test, which could be used to 
monitor the health of those with alcohol dependency problems. There is no mention of 
alcohol issues in the GP consultations leading up to these appointments and Ive considered 
if this indicates other potential reasons for the test and prescription. But given the GP 
records are not complete, Im not persuaded that it does. What Mr Fs GP records do show 
is that:
Mr F had previously undergone a home detox for an alcohol problem. 
The liver test revealed high MCV levels (which can indicate excessive alcohol 
consumption).
Mr Fs alcohol consumption in June 2004 was at a point where he was being 
signposted to alcohol support services. Whilst I appreciate the June 2004 appointment was after Mr F completed his application, 
when considered against the other evidence, this strongly suggests that Mr Fs GP 
considered he had an alcohol problem at the time he completed his application. And in the 
absence of evidence suggesting an alternative explanation for the liver function test and this 
medication, I think its reasonable for L&G to conclude that this was all linked to Mr Fs 
alcohol problem.
 
As outlined above, I think the application question is broad and I dont think its particularly 
clear what L&G are interested in knowing about. But I do think a reasonable person, reading 
this question, would know they ought to make L&G aware of medication and a liver function 
test linked to an alcohol problem. Whilst the overall question isnt particularly specific, it 
clearly asks about any tests and medicate treatment within the last two years. And I think a 
reasonable consumer would understand what is meant by a test or medicate treatment. 
I also think a reasonable consumer wouldnt consider an alcohol problem to be a minor 
ailment, even taking into account the lack of explanation regarding what a minor ailment is. 
Given this all happened just a few months before Mr Fs application, I think it would have 
been fresh in Mr Fs mind. So, I do think an accurate answer to this question would have 
been yes.
 
That being said, given the wording of the question, I dont agree with L&G that Mr F ought to 
have disclosed his consultation in late April 2004. L&G has said the evidence here indicates 
Mr F attended for an alcohol problem at this time. And I agree this was one of two issues 
discussed in his consultation, the other being Mr Fs psoriasis. But having reviewed the GP 
notes, its not clear to me if the alcohol discussions were prompted by Mr Fs psoriasis. 
The records state still need to see if stopping drinking helps. So, whilst the consultation 
went on to cover Mr Fs alcohol problem, I dont think L&G can reasonably say Mr F 
attended the doctor for this  which is what the question on the application form asked. 
And whilst L&G has suggested the June 2004 appointment was a follow-up review of Mr Fs 
drinking, I dont think its clear that Mr F understood this to be the purpose of the visit. 
Mr Fs drinking was clearly reviewed in this appointment, but his skin condition was also 
discussed, smoking advice was given, and his blood pressure was taken. So, its not clear 
from these records that Mr F was attending for an alcohol problem or that he was under 
regular medical review with his GP for this.
 
Similarly, Ive thought about the further information about Mr Fs alcohol problem contained 
within the late April and June 2004 consultations and whether this ought to have been 
declared. The late April consultation notes that Mr F had gone through a home detox at 
some point and he was advised to fu [follow up] with counselling services during that 
meeting. The June consultation notes say that Mr F couldnt get hold of a local alcohol 
recovery charity and that the community liaison addiction service (CLAS) would be contacted 
again. But having considered the question Mr F was asked, I dont think L&G can fairly say 
that any of this meant Mr F had to answer yes to this question. Counselling services, 
charities and community liaison addiction services are not usually considered a hospital or 
clinic nor are they part of a medical review or medicate treatment. And whilst L&G has 
provided extensive detail about the medical support Mr F may have received for a supported 
home detox through CLAS, theres no evidence this was how Mr F undertook this detox. 
Its also not at all clear when Mr F went through this detox  it may not have fallen within the 
two year timeframe asked about in the question. And whilst L&G has speculated that this 
detox may have been linked to the empty consultation in the GP records theres no evidence 
to support this. Psoriasis
The GP consultation notes also indicate Mr F attended the surgery and was prescribed 
medication for his skin four times in February and in early March 2004. The notes from a 
consultation in late April 2004 clearly record that Mr F had psoriasis and that this was 
improving with treatment.
So, the evidence indicates Mr F had attended a doctor for his psoriasis and received 
medicate treatment in the last two years. Whilst Mrs F told us they werent made aware of 
what a minor ailment was when they completed their applications, Im not persuaded 
psoriasis can reasonably be considered a minor ailment, even without a clear definition of 
minor. Psoriasis is a chronic skin condition. Mr F was having enough difficulty with this that 
he visited the GP five times in a month to seek treatment. And again, this happened just a 
few months before his application. For these reasons, I agree with L&G that this psoriasis 
medicate treatment and consultations ought to have prompted Mr F to answer yes here. 
Was this deliberate/reckless misrepresentation?
Mr F is no longer with us, and so Im not able to ask him why he didnt include this 
information.
Mrs F has told us she may have filled in the application for Mr F and didnt know the full 
details of his GP appointments. She also felt the financial advisor hadnt stressed the 
importance of the forms. But in May 2004 Mr F signed a form to confirm the application 
details were correct. This form warned If you are unsure as to whether any information 
should be given, you should provide it. It confirmed he understood that failure to do so may 
result in the plan being declare void, and that a claim for the proceeds may not be paid. 
Given this, Im satisfied that at this point Mr F had direct access to his application, the 
questions asked and his answers. And I think he was given sufficient advice within the form 
about the importance of the accuracy of his answers. 
Ive considered Mrs Fs recollection that Mr F was rushed when completing this form 
because the branch was closing. Its difficult to establish now what happened in a branch 
over 15 years ago, but the signed forms do indicate they were printed towards the end of the 
day. And this does add weight to Mrs Fs account. But even if Mr F was pushed for time, I 
dont think this removes his responsibility to check his answers. If he didnt have sufficient 
time to do so he could have refused to sign or asked for a copy of his application to check 
afterwards. If Mrs F had completed the application form on his behalf as shes suggested, 
this arguably put a greater onus on Mr F to double check things. Given this, I still think its 
reasonable for L&G to conclude that Mr F failed to take reasonable care here. 
But I dont think L&G is fair to categorise this a deliberate/reckless misrepresentation. 
Whilst I appreciate there is more than one reason why Mr F ought to have answered this 
question yes, as outlined above, I dont think there are as many reasons as L&G has 
suggested. 
The code states that the category of deliberate or reckless should be reserved for the most 
serious cases. Whilst the category of careless covers anything from an understandable 
oversight to serious negligence. 
I think its relevant that theres only one question L&G thinks Mr F answered incorrectly and 
that question is a catch all question which the code advises should be given less weight. 
I dont think the question aids the consumer in understanding what it is the insurer wants to 
know and I think its difficult to read. Taking into account the circumstances of his application, the incomplete medical evidence and also noting that Mr F hasnt been able to 
explain why he gave the answer he did, I think a fairer categorisation would be careless.
What would have happened?
Where there has been a careless misrepresentation, L&G should look at what it would have 
done had it had all of the information available to it at that time.
If Mr F has answered yes to this question, L&G has shown me evidence which suggests he 
would have been prompted to answer the following further questions under this section:
Condition:
Dates from:    to:
Investigation/Treatment/Medication:
Duration/Outcome:
Mr F would also have been asked a number of further questions, including asking him to 
input his weekly consumption of alcohol.
L&G has said that had Mr F answered these questions correctly, it would have known Mr F 
had an alcohol problem, was currently drinking and was taking medication for dependency. 
It said it then wouldnt have offered Mr F a policy. 
I appreciate L&G is not certain what underwriting guidance would have been used at that 
time, but Ive based my assessment on the underwriting guidance I think was most likely in 
use having considered the comments and evidence provided by L&G. 
Having reviewed that guidance, Im not satisfied L&G would have declined to offer cover. 
The guidance indicates this decision would have been based on the amount Mr F was 
drinking and the impact of this on him. L&G has said Mr Fs drinking would have been placed 
under the serious criticism category and led to a decline. But I think a fairer categorisation 
would be moderate criticism based on what Ive seen in the guidelines. 
I raised this with L&G and it stressed that the ultimate decision would have been a matter of 
judgement by the underwriter at the time. L&G also provided its current underwriters 
comments which said the specific circumstances of Mr Fs history would have led them to 
place him into the severe bracket. 
But the best objective and contemporaneous evidence I have is the underwriting manual. 
So, Ive placed greater weight on this. I appreciate underwriters judgement would have been 
exercised, but Im satisfied the factors identified by L&Gs current underwriter in their 
explanation can still fall within the moderate bracket as defined in the manual. I dont think 
the factors involved in the description of serious criticism can reasonably be applied to Mr F 
based on the objective medical evidence available. L&Gs view on this appears to be based 
on their view that Mr F was alcohol dependent, but I note Mr Fs GP didnt ever use this 
terminology to describe his alcohol problem at that time. So, whilst Ive taken their comments 
on board, Im still not satisfied L&G can fairly say that Mr F would have been placed in the 
serious criticism category back in 2004. 
The evidence Ive seen shows moderate criticism would have led to an additional weighting 
of between +100 to +300. And I havent seen any evidence to show me that Mr F would have been placed at the higher end of this range. So, I think a proportionate settlement of 
the claim based on the +100 rating would be reasonable here.
I say this as having reviewed the relevant underwriting, I cant see that any weighting would 
have been added for Mr Fs psoriasis had it been disclosed.
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think it was fair for L&G to decline the claim and 
avoid the policy. To put things right, I think it should proportionately settle the claim based on 
a rating of +100. I also think it should pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date it 
declined the claim until the date it settles the claim. If L&G has refunded the premiums, it can 
deduct this sum from the final settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to:
Settle the estate of Mr Fs claim proportionately based on a rating of +100.
Pay 8% simple interest on the claim from the date of decline until the date it is 
settled.
If Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has already refunded Mr Fs premiums, it 
may deduct this amount from the payment it makes.
If Legal and General Assurance Society Limited considers it should deduct income tax from 
any 8% interest element of my award it may do so, but it should give the estate of Mr F the 
necessary certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman