DRN-2920584
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc during a 
branch visit.
What happened
Mr Z visited a NatWest branch in April 2020 to withdraw cash over the counter. While the 
transaction was completed, Mr Z says branch staff treated him unfairly. He says staff were 
rude to him - making him leave the branch before he was able to double check the cash he 
had withdrawn. 
Mr Z has also said that the branch staff were asking customers in the queue about how 
much cash they were withdrawing. He feels this is poor customer service and a security 
threat to customers. 
Mr Z raised a complaint with NatWest about the service he had received. NatWest 
apologised and paid £20 compensation for the upset caused. But it explained it was limiting 
the number of customers in branch and the time each customer spent in the branch in line 
with Covid-19 pandemic social distancing guidelines. 
Mr Z wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service. He said 
NatWests actions had made him feel humiliated and that he was treated differently to other 
customers. He thinks this was because of his accent. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. In summary she thought 
that NatWest had acted in line with guidance brought in because of the pandemic. And she 
didnt think that NatWest had treated Mr Z differently to other customers using branch 
services at this time.  
Mr Z didnt accept this outcome and asked for a final decision. So, his complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator. Ill explain why.
I know Mr Z feels strongly that we should view the branch CCTV footage from the day of his 
visit. However, in my experience, branch CCTV doesnt include sound, so reviewing CCTV 
wouldnt allow me to determine what was said. 
But its not in dispute that Mr Z was asked to leave the branch before being allowed to count 
the cash hed withdrawn over the counter. So, Ive concentrated on whether NatWest acted 
fairly when asking Mr Z to leave the branch. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr Z not to be allowed
to count out the cash hed withdrawn over the counter. But to uphold his complaint I would 
need to be satisfied that NatWest acted unreasonably.  
Ordinarily Id agree that branch staff should allow its customers the time to count the cash 
they had withdrawn. But I think its important here to take into account the fact the events 
here happened during the early stages of the Covid-19 pandemic. And, I think NatWest - like 
all banks and buildings societies, would have considered the general guidance from the UK 
Government around social distancing. And the more specific guidance from the regulator -
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), when deciding what transactions it allowed 
customers to complete in branch during the pandemic. For example, the FCA asked banks 
and building societies to encourage it customers to do transactions via alternative methods 
rather than in branch and maintain social distancing when customers were in branch. 
Overall, Im satisfied NatWest has interpreted this guidance in a way in which it believed best 
protected its staff and customers during these unprecedented times. I accept that NatWest 
was trying to reduce the time customers spent in the branch to limit the risk of transmission 
of the virus. So, while I can appreciate Mr Zs concerns, I dont think NatWest was acting 
unreasonably in trying to establish if customers could undertake their transactions without 
the need to be inside the branch. And I dont think NatWest acted unfairly when it asked     
Mr Z to leave the branch as soon as his transaction had been completed. 
I can see that Mr Z has said that he feels he was treated differently to other customers. As 
far as how the conversation went with the member of NatWest staff, I cant be certain what 
exactly was said. But I havent seen anything to suggest that NatWest only applied these 
restrictions to Mr Z. Indeed, as mentioned above, Mr Z has pointed out that NatWest was 
asking all customers about the type of transaction they were undertaking. So, I think its most 
likely that NatWest applied restrictions to all customers. 
Thats not to say Mr Z wasnt inconvenienced by the fact he couldnt count out his cash 
as he wished and that is understood. But I think its fair to say the backdrop of the pandemic 
here meant that many businesses faced problems that resulted in inconvenience to its 
customers, so its important that this is taken into account when trying to establish what is 
fair and reasonable to impartially resolve this complaint. 
NatWest has apologised and paid Mr Z £20 compensation for the inconvenience and upset 
caused. Given the wider circumstances relevant to this complaint, I think this is a fair 
resolution to Mr Zs complaint. 
So, while Mr Z will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking NatWest to do 
anything further in respect of this complaint.
Continued
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint  in the sense that National 
Westminster Bank Plc has already apologised for the inconvenience caused and paid fair 
compensation to Mr Z.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman