DRN-3054489
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about an engineers behaviour and British Gas Insurance Limiteds 
handling of a claim under their home emergency policy.
Mr K is represented by Mrs K in this complaint.
What happened
In September 2020 Mrs K contacted British Gas to make a claim as she found a leak under 
her kitchen sink. An engineer was sent the same day. Mrs K says she gave the engineer a 
brief summary of work British Gas did in 2019 to replace the kitchen sink taps - in case this 
was of relevance. She says the engineer was blunt in his response, saying it wasnt anything 
to do with that. 
Mrs K told the engineer she was offering this information to help. At this point she says the 
engineer became defensive and spoke to her angrily. She said there was no need for his 
reaction and the engineer was again rude  he told her he wasnt completing the job and left. 
She told him she would complain, and says the engineer then swore at her.
Mrs K contacted British Gas who sent another engineer the same day. He fixed the problem 
with the sink. She lodged a complaint about the first engineer. In November 2020 the 
company rang to discuss the complaint. Mrs K was told the engineer no longer worked for 
British Gas. Later that month an issue with a toilet meant she contacted the company again. 
At this time, she found out the engineer still worked for British Gas and its system had a note 
to say dont use him for claims involving her. 
British Gas offered an apology and £50 compensation to resolve the complaint. Mrs K didnt 
think this adequately addressed her issues and complained to this service. Our Investigator 
looked into the matter but decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought British Gas had 
dealt with the engineer incident appropriately, by carrying out an internal investigation. 
The Investigator accepted a miscommunication had likely occurred in relation to whether the 
engineer was still employed by the company. And found Mrs Ks policy terms didnt cover the 
cost of any repairs to the kitchen cupboards.
Mrs K disagreed with these findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Ks complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Firstly, Mrs K has raised several concerns with the standard of British Gas complaint 
handling. I acknowledge her comments and can understand why she was disappointed. 
However, handling complaints is not a regulated activity in itself. While Im sorry to hear 
about the concerns Mrs K has expressed, I cant consider these points.
Engineer
I have considered Mrs Ks account of her conversation with the engineer. Her allegations of 
improper behaviour are certainly something we expect British Gas to take seriously. I 
understand it has conducted a formal investigation into the engineers conduct. However, it 
has not divulged details of the outcome to Mrs K, for data protection reasons. 
From the information provided Im satisfied that an internal investigation took place. I agree 
with British Gas, that it wouldnt be appropriate to divulge the detail of the outcome of this 
internal investigation. However, its appropriate this was dealt with formally. Given the upset 
Mrs K clearly experienced, I also think its reasonable that British Gas offered an apology 
and compensation payment of £50. 
I understand why Mrs K wants more information to show action was taken by British Gas 
about the engineer. But from the information it has provided I am satisfied it acted 
reasonably and appropriately in relation to this point. 
Inaccurate information about the engineer
I can understand Mrs Ks concerns here. She says she was told the engineer no longer 
worked at British Gas. But when she next made a claim was told he was still employed, and 
in-fact was the only engineer available at the time. Its good to see that British Gas had 
made a record for this engineer not to attend in the event of a claim from Mrs K. Had it not 
this could have caused further distress.
British Gas thinks there is likely to have been some confusion on its part around this point. It 
says its engineer who fitted Mrs Ks kitchen taps in 2019 was no longer employed by it. The 
company feels this may have been the information its complaint handler conveyed in error, 
when the complaint was discussed. 
We asked for records or call recordings to help understand what was discussed between 
Mrs K and British Gas. Unfortunately, it explains there are no records available. This is 
unfortunate and I note our investigator highlighted the lack of records as a point of concern 
with the company.
Its possible that a mistake was made by British Gas complaint handler as described. Im 
unable to verify this further as there are no records. However, if a call recording or note from 
the call were available, Im not sure this would be reveal more than we already know  which 
is that the information about the engineer was wrong.
Giving inaccurate information about the engineer was careless on British Gas part and 
again, its right that it offered an apology and compensation for this poor service.  
Damaged Cupboards
Mrs K has sent photos that show water staining to the inside of the cupboard under the sink. 
I understand the leak came from the drain becoming detached from the waste water pipe. 
When the sink was emptied the waste water would drain into the cupboard. 
Although the leak wasnt resolved by the first engineer, it was fixed later that same day. Its not clear when the leak first occurred, but its fair to say that some water had already leaked 
into the cupboard by the time British Gas were called. The company says its responsible for 
damage it causes, but it doesnt accept it is responsible here. 
The policy terms say: 
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture or 
fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we caused 
it. For example damage caused by water leaks. Were also not responsible for any losses 
incurred as a result of delayed, rearranged or cancelled appointments.   
I have thought about whether the engineer walking off the job caused or added to the 
damage. Given the short period of time between his visit and the leak being fixed, I dont 
think its been shown that it did. Waste water had already flowed into the cupboard, which is 
why Mrs K reported the problem to British Gas. 
In considering all of this I think British Gas did initially treat Mrs K unfairly, but it acted 
reasonably in ensuring its records were updated, regarding the engineer, and in providing an 
apology and compensation. I dont think its fair to say its responsible for repairing damage 
to the cupboards. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman