DRN-4153808
The complaint
Miss D complains she missed out on a fixed interest rate deal with her lender when she 
applied to re-mortgage through her mortgage broker, Angela Morton Ltd. 
What happened
Miss Ds fixed interest rate deal for her mortgage was due to expire at the end of October 
2022. In mid-August she approached Angela Morton Ltd (AML) about finding a suitable new 
mortgage. At the beginning of September AML told Miss D about deals that were available 
and suggested she stay with her existing lender. They sent Miss D some paperwork for her 
to complete and return. 
In mid-October Miss D got a letter from the lender telling her the mortgage was due for 
renewal. She queried it with AML who said it was an automated letter and asked if shed 
received an acceptance form and returned it. Miss D told them shed signed and returned 
everything shed received. At the beginning of November Miss D found she was paying 
interest at the lenders standard variable rate, not the fixed rate she thought shed put in 
place through AML.
AML contacted the lender to see what had happened. The lender said the acceptance form 
hadnt been sent to it in time. It wouldnt agree to lend at the rate Miss D had applied for - it 
would only offer a higher rate. 
Miss D complained about the service AML had provided. She said shed returned all the 
paperwork AML had asked her to; shed checked with AML on progress; and shed then 
been told the deal had expired. She blamed AML for missing out on the rate she wanted.
AML didnt uphold the complaint. They said, in summary, theyd completed the product 
transfer submission on 8 September 2022 and sent the paperwork out to Miss D in the post; 
the Mortgage Illustration and Contract Variation Offer (the mortgage documents) had set out 
clearly the date by which they had to be signed and returned; they didnt receive any 
documents from Miss D until mid-October; shed signed some of the documents on 21 
September, outside the deadline, but she hadnt signed the mortgage documents at all.
Miss D didnt accept AMLs response and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. She said AML had sent paperwork in the post during a postal strike 
and an alternative should have been offered; AML hadnt followed up on paperwork that they 
hadnt received back until after 17 October; shed never confirmed receiving documents from 
the lender as she wasnt expecting any  thered been a change in process that AML hadnt 
told her about; the lender had told AML on 18 October they were awaiting documents for 
signing that had been sent on 8 September and AML should have been dealing with it.    
Miss D said shed contacted an alternative adviser to arrange another mortgage with a 
higher rate of interest. She wanted AML to meet the difference in interest she will pay over 
the term of the mortgage of around £3,700.
Our investigator said AML hadnt been under any obligation to contact Miss D between 
sending out the documentation, in early September, and mid-October. But he thought they 
should have contacted her after that to check her plans for applying for a fixed rate. And he 
said it was fair for AML to pay her compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
she was caused. AML accepted our investigators view, but Miss D didnt agree. Since the 
complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted all the points and information the parties have helpfully provided. I may not 
mention them all here. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on what I consider key in coming to my decision.
I appreciate Miss Ds strength of feeling about her complaint. I can understand it was 
disappointing she didnt get the interest rate product she was hoping for and that her 
mortgage is more expensive as a result. However, whilst I understand she will be 
disappointed, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator for similar reasons.
In broad terms, Miss Ds application to switch her mortgage to a new fixed term interest rate 
product with her existing lender didnt succeed because she didnt accept the offer in time. 
And by the time AML discussed things with the lender, it wasnt willing to honour the rate.
AML were advising Miss D on the suitability of the mortgage product and arranging it for her. 
The parties agree AML sent Miss D several documents dated 8 September. AML say they 
sent them to Miss D on that day. Miss D doesnt remember exactly when she received them 
but thinks it would have been within a few working days of then. The documents included the 
mortgage documents which Miss D needed to sign and return to AML. 
The timeframe for signing and returning the mortgage documents within seven days of         
8 September was clearly short. But it was fixed by the lender, so AML cant be held 
responsible for that.
AML have explained its their practice to post documents that require signing to avoid 
problems with receipt/reading/printing documents sent by email. They say they clip together 
all the forms that need to be signed and mark them with a large sticky note asking their 
customers to sign all the documents enclosed and return them as soon as possible in the 
stamped addressed envelope they provide. 
I think AML could have been more helpful in explaining to Miss D the urgency of returning 
acceptance of the mortgage offer to them. But, on balance, I think Miss D ought reasonably 
to have understood what she needed to do without AML providing a clearer explanation. Ill 
explain why:
The suitability report set out clearly under the heading Mortgage Offer that the offer 
would set out the terms and conditions, she should read it carefully and it would only 
remain valid for a limited period of time.
The lenders letter enclosing the mortgage documents said Miss Ds broker needed 
to return those documents signed via the scan and upload facility on their system. 
The Contract Variation Offer said under Offer Period that the offer was valid for 
seven days unless the lender agreed to extend it. And under the heading 
Acceptance of the Offer it said Miss D had to sign and return the agreement within 
seven days, failing which the offer would be withdrawn. Given the importance of the mortgage documents, its reasonable to expect Miss D to have 
read them. If she had, I think she ought reasonably to have understood she had to sign and 
return the mortgage documents to AML for them to submit to the lender - and the timeframe 
for doing so. The lenders documents were sufficiently clear. I dont think AML were required 
to provide any additional clarification. 
I note Miss Ds point that AML should have told her the application process had changed 
from a previous application shed made. AML say the process hadnt changed and Miss D is 
confused about that. Whatever the position, I dont think it affects the outcome of this 
complaint. The process that needed to be followed here was explained in the mortgage 
documents, as Ive mentioned.
Ive noted Miss Ds concerns about postal strikes affecting her communication with AML and 
that no alternatives were offered. If she was concerned about not being able to return the 
offer in time, its reasonable to think she would have contacted AML to discuss other options. 
But she doesnt seem to have taken any action until around 21 September since thats the 
date that appears on the documents she returned to AML signed. That was already outside 
the seven-day acceptance period. And it wasnt until mid-October she contacted AML about 
the progress of her application. 
I note Miss Ds concerns AML didnt chase her to return the paperwork. Theyve explained 
its not their business practice to chase their clients since some change their minds and go 
elsewhere or decide to deal directly with the lender. I dont think thats unreasonable or that 
AMLs role required them to follow up with Miss D. Theyd advised on a suitable deal; theyd 
sent Miss D the documents she needed; and the documents explained she needed to sign 
and return acceptance of the offer within the time limit. 
Although AML could have checked in with Miss D to see if she needed assistance, on 
balance, I think responsibility for returning the signed offer in time rested with her. And even 
if AML had contacted Miss D, and shed sent the signed offer back sooner, theres no 
guarantee AML would have been successful in persuading the lender to honour the rate 
once the seven-day acceptance period had passed.
AML followed up with the lender promptly once Miss D had contacted them at the beginning 
of November. Unfortunately, the lender wouldnt agree to her having the deal theyd 
originally offered. I can understand it was upsetting for Miss D to find out she was on a 
higher interest rate than she was expecting. And I think AML could have done more to 
discuss what Miss D wanted to do and manage her expectations when theyd received the 
incomplete paperwork. In the circumstances, its fair AML compensate Miss D for the 
distress and inconvenience she suffered at that point. I think the £150 our investigator 
recommended is reasonable compensation. 
I appreciate Miss D feels AML should also compensate her for the additional interest she will 
pay under the mortgage she managed to arrange with another lender. But since I dont think 
that AML treated her unfairly or acted unreasonably overall, I dont think it would be fair to 
ask AML to do that.
Putting things right
AML should pay Miss D compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience she 
suffered following their failure to contact her after shed returned the incomplete paperwork. 
My final decision
I direct Angela Morton Ltd to pay Miss D £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman