DRN-3528487
The complaint
Mr S complains about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) deducting 
funds from his account.
What happened
Mr S held a share dealing account with HLAM, which operated on an execution only basis. 
In January 2020, HLAM sold shares on Mr Ss behalf. In March 2020, HLAM deducted 
£31.68 from Mr Ss account in belief that they were correcting overpayment of a dividend 
from these shares. When Mr S complained, HLAM cleared the negative balance but didnt 
repay a £0.13 credit taken from Mr Ss HL Fund and Share Account. Having reviewed the 
complaint HLAM also paid £100 to compensate for the delays in responding to Mr S.
Mr S says he didnt receive any dividend payment into his account and HLAM were not 
authorised to deduct the payment. He received £0.48 in dividends in total as he had retained 
two shares. Mr S sent multiple letters to HLAM seeking clarification about the deduction and 
had to chase on several occasions for a response. He would like HLAM to change their 
processes and to amend the wording of the adjustment on his account.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought HLAM had acted unfairly by claiming 
to have made a gesture of goodwill when putting the account back into the position it should 
have been in. However, he noted that HLAM conceded this point in correspondence and the 
account was rectified along with a refund of £0.13. Our investigator accepted that Mr S wrote 
to HLAM on a number of occasions, had to wait for a response and received responses 
which did not directly address his concerns. Overall, our investigator thought £100 was a fair 
and reasonable to compensate for these matters. Mr S also raised wider concerns about 
HLAMs processes, but our investigator thought these were matters within HLAMs 
commercial discretion.
Mr S disagrees with the outcome in the view. He sought an assurance that these matters 
would not happen again and raised concerns about HLAMs processes. Further, he asked 
for the wording discretionary adjustment to be amended on his account.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I think it is helpful to explain our role. We provide an informal dispute resolution 
service. We have no regulatory or disciplinary role, which means we cant tell a business 
how to operate and we cant penalise a business for any wrongdoing. Where things have 
gone wrong, we look to compensate a consumer on a fair and reasonable basis.
Its common ground that HLAM sold share certificates on Mr Ss behalf on 6 January 2020. 
As dealing in share certificates has a longer settlement period than electronic trading, the 
sale didnt settle until 20 January 2020. 
It appears that HLAM relied upon information from the registrar, which said a dividend of 
£31.68 was paid to Mr S on 11 March 2020 from the shares. As the shares had been sold 
before the ex-dividend date, HLAM concluded there had been and error and deducted 
£31.68 from Mr Ss account. In doing so they created a negative balance then offset a partial 
credit from another account. 
It is fair to say that HLAM caused a great deal of confusion here. First, they maintained that 
a dividend of £31.68 had been paid to Mr S and they did nothing wrong in deducting it as it 
had been paid in error. Only after Mr S persisted with the complaint did they accept that the 
dividend had not been paid into the account at all. HLAM now say they had assumed the 
registrar paid £31.68 directly to Mr S either electronically or by cheque. So, the explanation 
given has been inconsistent. Im satisfied from the evidence provided by Mr S that he only 
received a payment of £0.48, from the two shares hed retained. HLAM caused further 
confusion by crediting back £31.55 instead of £31.68 and referring to it as a goodwill 
gesture.
In my view things clearly went wrong on this occasion. HLAM say they relied on incorrect 
information from the registrar, but Im mindful that they went on to persist in giving incorrect 
information to Mr S. Understandably, Mr S was frustrated with the responses he received 
and with HLAMs delays in responding. Mr S would like HLAM to change their processes, so 
this doesnt happen again. Whilst I understand Mr Ss point of view, as Ive explained, our 
service doesnt have the power to tell HLAM how to operate, but I have seen that HLAM 
referred these issues to senior management for their consideration. 
I agree it is fair and reasonable for HLAM to put Mr S in the position as if the deduction 
hadnt been made. Ive seen that the funds in the account have been restored and £0.13 
interest has been refunded. I appreciate Mr S would prefer HLAM to change the recording of 
this correction from a discretionary adjustment, but as Ive explained, we cant direct a 
business to change its processes. Its now common ground that this was a rectification to the 
account and not a gesture of goodwill. In my view, HLAM took reasonable and proportionate 
steps in agreeing to write to Mr S to confirm that his account was adjusted to correct an error 
and this rectification was not a gesture of goodwill. 
HLAM have apologised for the shortcomings in their service provision and paid £100 to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience they caused Mr S. On balance, I think thats 
fair and reasonable compensation so I wont be asking HLAM to do anything more.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but for the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman