DRN-2833279
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy with the information Home Retail Group Services Limited trading as 
Argos Card (Argos), reported to the credit reference agencies while she was in a debt 
management plan.
What happened
In 2012, Ms J entered into a store card agreement with Argos.
Due to experiencing financial difficulties in March 2014, Ms J started making payments 
to her creditors through a debt charity. As part of an agreed debt management plan, 
she offered to pay Argos £5 a month to discharge her outstanding debt with them, and 
they accepted. Although the plan was reviewed over the years, her circumstances 
didnt materially improve, and her payment offer remained the same. She eventually 
cleared the debt in spring 2020, as she made some additional larger payments that 
year to help discharge it.
In August 2020, Ms J raised a complaint with Argos as she had signed up with a credit 
reference agency and received an alert to say, missed payments reported on her credit 
file were impacting her credit score. It was only then she noticed Argos had been 
reporting missed payments to her credit file, despite making every payment under the 
plan. She didnt think this was fair and said none of her other creditors were reporting 
adverse information about her.
In response to the complaint, Argos explained that the first payment they received under 
the agreed plan wasnt until March 2014, and Ms Js account fell into arrears shortly 
before this. They also said the arrears werent discharged until she had cleared the 
balance in 2020, so this was an accurate reflection of her payment history. As such, they 
werent prepared to make any changes to her credit file.
After the complaint was referred to our service, Argos changed their position as they said 
they had noticed there were a few months, where Ms Js credit file didnt show a payment 
plan was in place, and they were therefore happy to update this. They also said when the 
payment plan first started the arrears were frozen. However, due to a delay in reviewing 
the
plan in May 2017 a contractual payment was requested, and as this amount was more 
than the £5 payment Ms J made, this was the reason arrears were then reported to the 
credit reference agencies, on an ongoing monthly basis. There were a few occasions, 
where    Ms Js credit file showed two missed payments instead of one. However, as 
they couldnt explain why this was the case, they were prepared to ask the credit 
reference agencies to change this. Finally, they offered to pay Ms J £50 compensation 
to say sorry for the trouble and upset they had caused her.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, as she concluded it wasnt fair for Argos to 
report any missed payments to the credit reference agencies, while Ms J made 
payments under the plan.
Ms J accepted our investigators opinion, but Argos disagreed with it. They said the 
missed payment markers should remain on Ms Js credit file, as they are an accurate 
reflection of her payment history.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 May 2021, which said I was intending on 
reaching a different outcome to our investigator. I said:
Argos havent been able to provide details of Ms Js circumstances when she first 
entered into the plan in 2014. Theyve also explained that all plan reviews, with the 
debt charity were completed using a portal, so they cant provide details of these 
either. However, given Ms J was only able to pay £5 a month against a debt of 
£314, this suggests her financial difficulties were relatively severe. While Ms J was 
only able to make £5 payments, around £2 in interest was also applied each 
month, and this meant the speed at which her debt was decreasing was further 
reduced.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says a default would normally be 
registered when an account is between three and six months in arrears. 
However, a default wont normally be applied, if a customer maintains all of the 
payments under an agreed debt management plan. I suspect Argos never 
defaulted Ms Js account, as they continued to agree to the terms of the debt 
management plan, and Ms J never missed a payment. However, I think the rate 
of repayment under the proposed plan should also have been a key 
consideration. Even if Argos had frozen the interest on the account, which they 
didnt, it would have taken Ms J over five years and 63 payments to clear the 
debt. I dont think this was a reasonable timescale, given the size of the debt, 
and Argos should therefore have given more thought to defaulting the account.
I also note that if Ms J had stopped making any payments, the account would 
have been defaulted within three to six months, and this default would have been 
removed from her credit file six years later. Ms J currently has adverse 
information recorded on her credit file, so I dont think its right shes been left in 
a worse position, then if she hadnt made any payments at all.
I think it was appropriate for Argos to have initially delayed defaulting the account 
to see if Ms Js circumstances were temporary. But I also think they shouldnt 
reasonably have delayed this by more than six months, given the slow rate of 
repayment and the time it would take to discharge the debt. If Argos had done this, 
interest would have been frozen, and all
of Ms Js payments would have gone towards clearing the outstanding 
balance. I think a reasonable date for the default would therefore have been 
30 September 2014.
My provisional decision
In light of the above, to resolve this complaint I currently intend on directing 
Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card to carry out 
the following redress.
Manually rework the account to reflect the fact no interest was added 
after 30 September 2014.
Based on the above, refund any over payments made by Ms J and pay 8% 
simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made until the 
date of settlement.Report a default to the credit reference agencies and ask that this is 
backdated to 30 September 2014.
Pay Ms J £100 compensation in total, for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused her. I appreciate Ms J has already been offered £50, but I think £100 is 
more appropriate given the impact of Argos actions and the upset caused.
I also detailled some considerations in relation to income tax.  
Ms J accepted my findings and didnt wish to add any further comments.
Argos also accepted and said they would simply ask the credit reference agencies to 
remove the account from Ms Js credit file, rather than requesting they add a backdated 
default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered the comments made by Argos, and Im satisfied simply asking the credit 
reference agencies to remove the account from Ms Js credit file wouldnt disadvantage     
Ms J. This is because it will have the same result as now asking the credit reference 
agencies to add a backdated default, due to the time that has passed. So, I have taken this 
into consideration in the redress below.
As both sides have otherwise accepted my findings, I see no reason to make any further 
changes to the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To resolve the complaint, Argos should therefore carry out the following redress.  
Manually rework the account to reflect the fact no interest was added 
after 30 September 2014.
Based on the above, refund any over payments made by Ms J and pay 8% 
simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made until the 
date of settlement.*
Ask the credit reference agencies to remove the account from Ms Js credit 
file.
Pay Ms J £100 compensation in total, for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused her. I appreciate Ms J has already been offered £50, but I think £100 is 
more appropriate given the impact of Argos actions and the upset caused.
*If Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card considers that they 
are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, they 
should tell Ms J how much its taken off. They should also give Ms J a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Home Retail Group Services Limited trading as Argos 
Card to settle the complaint as detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman