DRN-3031089
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because Lloyds has provided a copy of the separate PPI application 
Mr M completed when he took out his further advance to his original mortgage. Mr M 
also signed a separate direct debit mandate to allow the premiums to be taken from his 
bank account. 
By having to complete these separate forms  separate to the further advance 
application itself  Im not persuaded Mr M would have been under the impression he 
had to have PPI. Im mindful too that the PPI was only covering this new lending  not 
the original mortgage which Mr M took out in 1998 without PPI. 
So taking everything into account, I think Mr M chose to take out PPI and did so without 
undue pressure.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr M - so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. And the evidence about Mr Ms circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr M was eligible for the 
cover and although he had existing means in the form of some sick pay, given he didnt 
have any savings for example to fall back on, the policy would have paid out for up to 12 
months per claim and the cover was protecting his mortgage and ultimately his home, I 
think he still had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although Mr M says he had some medical conditions some 
time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended cover. I say this because the things Mr M has told us about happened 
around seven years before he took out PPI. Mr M didnt tell us much more about his 
conditions. But I can see that when Lloyds contacted Mr M during its investigation of his 
complaint, it has recorded that he told them his conditions werent affecting his working 
life at the time of the sale  any time off hed had because of his conditions happened at 
or around the time. 
The policy would pay out for existing conditions after the first 24 months of cover, so 
taking all of this into account I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended 
the PPI. Im not persuaded that Mr Ms health was impaired at the time of the sale or that 
the adviser should reasonably have considered his health was a concern taking into 
account the restrictions on cover. Lastly I can see there were no exclusions on or limits 
to the cover for claims relating to back problems or mental health conditions. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr M as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. And at less than £8 a month it also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr 
M would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular case.But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman