DRN-3477511
The complaint
Mr M complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a curtailment claim he made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr M booked a holiday to a country Ill call N. He was due to travel between 
15 and 31 March 2020. On 29 October 2019, Mr M took out a Campbell Irvine Direct annual 
travel insurance policy through a broker. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 
15 March 2020, Mr M travelled to the airport as planned, as there was no Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advice against travel to N in place. He was 
able to take the first leg of his outbound flight. However, later that day, the FCDO did go on 
to advise against all but essential travel to N. 
So Mr M travelled back to the UK on 16 March 2020, from a transit airport, on a flight 
arranged by his airline at no additional cost. Mr M subsequently made a claim to AWP for the 
costs associated with cutting short his trip.
AWP turned down Mr Ms claim. It said the circumstances of the claim werent covered by 
the curtailment section of the policy. 
Mr M was unhappy with AWPs decision and his representative asked us to look into this 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He felt the main reason Mr M 
had cut short his trip was because of the change in FCDO advice. The investigator accepted 
that the policy didnt cover curtailment due to a change in FCDO advice. But he noted that 
the policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled against FCDO 
advice. This meant Mr M wouldnt have been covered if hed continued with his journey and 
he wouldnt be covered if he cut it short. The investigator didnt think the policy terms made 
the combined effect of these terms clear. And he considered that if Mr M had been aware 
that he wouldnt be covered if FCDO guidance changed after he travelled, he wouldve been 
unlikely to take out the policy. So he felt it would be fair for AWP to assess Mr Ms claim in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
AWP disagreed. It said the FCDO exclusion was common to most travel insurance policies. 
However, the general exclusions apply to the policy as a whole and have no bearing on the 
individual circumstances its underwriters are prepared to cover under each section. And it 
didnt accept the investigators assertion that the reference to the FCDO exclusion in either 
the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) or the policy document was unclear.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for AWP to turn down Mr Ms claim. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business) say: 
 a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to:
  act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer; 
 handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed. Appropriate information includes the 
information that must be set out in an IPID, which gives customers an at a glance summary 
of their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks 
insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary of 
excluded risks. 
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors 
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided. 
The IPID 
At the top of page one, the IPID says:
This document only provides a basic summary of policy cover. The full terms and conditions 
of the contract are shown on the policy document, which you should read carefully to ensure 
you have the cover you need.
Under the What is insured? section, the IPID says:
Cancelling or cutting short your journey  Up to £3,000 in total for lost pre-paid travel and 
accommodation costs.
Page two includes a section called Where am I covered? This says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice Unit of 
the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
The policy terms
Page 18 of the policy terms sets out the specific, listed events AWP covers if a policyholder 
cancels their trip. These are as follows:1. The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of a 
treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy 
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your 
travelling companion.
2. The death, serious injury or illness of,
a a close relative, or 
b the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or
c a dependent business partner; of you or your travelling companion which
necessitates the presence of the person concerned.
3.  Hijack.
4.  Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5. Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request of 
an emergency service requires your presence.
The policy also sets out a list of specific things AWP doesnt cover and which apply to the 
whole policy. This includes the following, on page 14 of the policy, under the heading 
General exclusions:
10 You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit of the 
British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against travel, unless agreed by or on behalf of the insurer.
Was it unreasonable for AWP to turn down the claim?
Mr M curtailed his trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to the 
destination he was due to travel on to. Thats not something thats covered under the terms 
and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking into 
account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr M had continued with his journey to 
N (in the event that it was possible for him to do so), hed have not followed FCDO advice. 
So, the policy suggests that he wouldnt have been covered by any of the policy terms and 
conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the contract, curtailment of a holiday due 
to changes in FCDO guidance also isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that was made 
sufficiently clear to Mr M. 
Mr M wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand that 
this set of circumstances wasnt covered. Although I accept that the IPID refers to the FCDO 
exclusion broadly on page two and is set out in the contract itself, I dont think the totality of  
the policy documentation made the combined effect of the policy terms clear enough to Mr 
M. And I dont think that this information was brought to his attention in a prominent and 
transparent way. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr M and AWP. I 
think its unlikely that Mr M would have purchased the policy if hed realised that there was 
no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after hed bought the policy. And, 
at the time Mr M bought his policy, he would have been able to find cover elsewhere which 
did cover the circumstances he subsequently found himself in. 
I appreciate AWP says the general exclusions apply as a whole as have no bearing on the 
underwriting of individual sections of the policy. But as Ive set out above, while Mr Ms 
reason for cutting short his trip wasnt strictly covered; if he had gone ahead and continued to fly on to N, it appears to me that he wouldnt have been covered at all by the policy. Thats 
because hed have travelled against FCDO advice. So, had he travelled abroad and made a 
claim, I think the exclusion is likely to have applied to the circumstances of it. And AWP has 
provided no evidence here to suggest that this was not the case.
Overall, I think it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for AWP to treat Mr 
Ms claim as covered under the curtailment section of the policy. AWP must therefore assess 
the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to treat Mr Ms curtailment claim as covered under the curtailment 
section of the policy and to reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the contract. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman