DRN-2657885
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows), trading as Clerical 
Medical, because his Group Personal Pension Plan (GPPP) has suffered a loss.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr H received his GPPP annual statement for 2018. This document valued 
his pension at £247,915 as of 1 January 2019. 
Mr H was concerned by this valuation, as the previous years statement had given a value of 
£256, 378.72 as of 1 January 2018. As such, Mr H complained to Scottish Widows in May 
2019. Following some difficulties accessing secure email correspondence from Scottish 
Widows, Mr H referred his complaint to this Service on 14 July 2019.
Shortly after this, on 17 July 2019, Scottish Widows responded to Mr H saying that his 
complaint had not been upheld and providing referral rights to this Service. In summary, 
Scottish Widows said that the performance of the fund was not guaranteed, and that risk 
was an inherent part of this type of investment. However, Scottish Widows did acknowledge 
the email access issues and offered Mr H a £50 compensation payment for this 
inconvenience, as well as an additional £50 for the delay in responding to his complaint. It 
does not appear that Mr H received this £100 at the time.
When Mr H received his next annual statement for 2019, it showed a value of £267,912.06 
as of 1 January 2010. However, when Mr H requested a further valuation on 6 August later 
that same year, Scottish Widows told him the value had decreased to £248,944.56. 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr H on 23 September 2020, responding to a number of concerns. 
Firstly, Scottish Widows again explained that the fall in value was a performance issue, and 
that such investments have the potential to either rise or fall. Scottish Widows also pointed 
out that this aspect of Mr Hs complaint had already been raised in May 2019 and that 
referral rights to this Service had been provided at the time. As such, Scottish Widows 
argued, Mr H was now out of time to ask this Service to consider this aspect of his 
complaint.
In addition, Scottish Widows responded to Mr Hs other points of concern. Mr H had 
indicated that he believed he was unable to draw his benefits until age 71, but Scottish 
Widows clarified that he could take his benefits at any time. Scottish Widows also explained 
that there was no requirement to pro-actively contact customers regarding fund performance 
other than via the annual statement, which Mr H had been sent every year. Scottish Widows 
added that Mr H was free to get in touch to request an up-to-date valuation at any point. 
It was brought to light in subsequent correspondence between Mr H and Scottish Widows 
that the £100 offered to Mr H in July 2019 as compensation had not been received. As such, 
I understand Mr H was sent a cheque for this amount in October 2020. 
Mr H transferred his pension from Scottish Widows to Hartley Pensions £248,851.14 on 26 
October 2020. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Hs case and issued his view in March 2021. He found that Mr 
Hs complaint had been brought in time and fell within in our jurisdiction to consider. 
However, our investigator did not uphold the complaint, and found that Scottish Widows had 
not acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr H disagreed and requested an Ombudsmans decision and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator found that the complaint fell within our jurisdiction and I understand that 
Scottish Widows has accepted our investigators view. However, for completeness, I will add 
that I agree with our investigator on this point. Scottish Widows raised a time-based 
objection in the letter of 23 September 2020, saying more than six months had passed since 
the referral rights given on 17 July 2019, and thus Mr H was out of time to bring any 
concerns relating to fund performance to this Service. However, as Mr H brought his 
complaint to this Service on 14 July 2019, this objection falls away.
As such, Ive gone on to look at the merits of Mr Hs complaint.
Mr Hs primary complaint point is that his pension valuation decreased, as measured over a 
fairly short timeframe of roughly three years. Although I accept that any decrease would be 
unwelcome to Mr H, potential fluctuations in value  both up and down  are an inherent 
element of this type of investment. In fact, the value did go up during the time period in 
question, after Mr H initially referred his complaint to this Service in July 2019, only to fall 
again. 
While everyone would like a guarantee that their investments will only ever go up, no such 
guarantee can be given. Mr H has said he had other funds that did not fall in value to the 
same extent as the Scottish Widows fund during the same period. However, fund 
performance is impacted by many different factors, including where the funds are invested 
and how world events impact upon these investments, resulting in fluctuations in values. I 
am sorry to hear that the value of Mr Hs GPPP did not keep pace with his aspirations and 
expectations, but this is not a basis on which I can find Scottish Widows at fault.
Mr H has also expressed discontent that the annual management charge continued to be 
payable, despite the fund performance. But payment was not dependent on performance, so 
the charge was correctly applied.
Mr H also expressed concerns that he was unable to access or transfer his pension until the 
age of 71, but Scottish Widows has clarified this was not the case  and Mr H has since 
transferred his pension. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Scottish Widows 
misinformed Mr H on this point or restricted his access to his pension, so Im not upholding 
this aspect of Mr Hs complaint.
I understand Mr H feels that Scottish Widows shouldve taken a more pro-active approach to 
updating him about fund performance, but it appears the business met its regulatory 
requirements to provide an annual statement. Mr H was entitled to request additional 
valuations in between annual statements, and he did so on at least one occasion and was 
provided with this information. So, I cant say Scottish Widows acted wrongly in this regard 
either.Lastly, Mr H also raised the matter of the outstanding £100 compensation offered by Scottish 
Widows in 2019. However, I understand this has since been paid.
In summary, therefore, I dont think Mr H has been treated unreasonably or unfairly, and so 
Im not going to ask Scottish Widows to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint or making any award against Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Ellie Clare
Ombudsman
