DRN-3448040
The complaint
Mr K complains Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG 
unfairly declined his mobile phone insurance claim.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr K took out a Helvetia mobile phone insurance policy. The next day he made 
a claim, reporting the loss of his phone. Helvetia declined the claim, relying on a policy term 
to do so. The term required an active SIM card within a phone, but at the time of loss Mr Ks 
was without one. The term said the SIM was required to allow the phone to be blacklisted.    
Mr K complained that phones could now be blacklisted without a SIM. He showed proof that 
his had been. In response Helvetia continued to rely on the term to refuse the claim. Mr K 
wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He wants Helvetia to settle his claim.
In February 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. She said Helvetia had 
unreasonably relied on the term to decline the claim  as Mr Ks provider had blocked the 
phone without a SIM card. So she recommended Helvetia reconsider the claim without 
reference to the term  and pay Mr K £100 compensation. He accepted that outcome. But as 
Helvetia didnt, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks policy says Helvetia will replace his registered mobile phone in the event of loss. Loss 
is defined as The mobile phone has been accidentally left behind by you and you are 
permanently deprived of its use and unable to locate the mobile phone.
The policy also says Helvetia will not cover a phone that does not have a SIM card. It states  
Your phone must have an active SIM card in it that is registered with a UK service provider. 
This is to prevent widespread fraud as you cant blacklist a phone when there is no SIM card 
in it. 
Mr K accepts his phone didnt have a SIM card in it at the time it was lost. So on the face of it 
the policy term could be said to apply. But when considering if a claims been fairly declined, 
I dont only look at policy terms. I also consider the circumstances and industry guidelines 
such as ICOBS. 
ICOBS says an insurer can only decline an otherwise valid claim due to a breach of a policy 
condition where the circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach. As set out 
above, the term explains why Helvetia requires a SIM card to be in place  to allow the 
phone to be blacklisted to prevent fraud. 
Im satisfied a phone can be blacklisted without a SIM. Mr Ks provided a letter from his 
provider showing his phone was blacklisted on the day he made the claim. Ive seen the 
phone listed as such on a relevant website. So Im satisfied Mr Ks phone was blacklisted 
even though it didnt have a SIM.
Ive considered Mr Ks testimony and evidence for the claim  including proof of the phones 
usage and his explanation for it being without a SIM on the day of its loss. Ive taken into 
account Helvetias points about the circumstances of Mr Ks claim  and its wider 
explanation for requiring a SIM.  
Whilst the phone didnt have a SIM, the purpose of requiring one (blacklisting) appears to 
have been satisfied. Helvetia hasnt satisfactorily explained how the absence of a SIM made 
a difference to circumstances of Mr Ks claim  or what impact it had on the claim. So its not 
fair or reasonable for it to rely on that term to refuse his claim. Helvetia will need to 
reconsider it without reference to the SIM card term.  
Our investigator recommended Helvetia pay Mr K £100 compensation. I think thats a fair 
amount to recognise the distress and inconvenience hes been caused by it unfairly relying 
on the SIM card term to decline his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in 
Liechtenstein AG will need to:
reconsider Mr Ks claim without reference to the SIM card term and
pay him £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman