DRN-3025999
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc refuses to refund payments 
she made to a binary options investment scammer. 
What happened
Mrs S was contacted by a Senior Account Manager (Shaun) from a company Ill call E, 
who persuaded her to invest with them. Shaun promised Mrs S large returns which would be 
risk free and assured her shed be able to easily withdraw her funds. Shaun told Mrs S she 
needed to pay a registration fee to give her access to her trading account and she agreed 
and paid €250 over the phone plus a transaction fee of £6.73 (using her Marks & Spencer 
Mastercard credit card) on 22 August 2018.
 
Mrs S was given access to a trading account with E and Shaun explained that hed show her 
how to trade. Mrs S made a further payment of €2,000 plus a transaction fee of £53.78 upon 
Shauns request to finance her investment with E. Shaun let Mrs S know shed made a profit 
of €200 in one day and she would receive this money but he didnt contact her again. 
On 10 October 2018, Mrs S received a call from another Senior Account Manager at E, 
Julia, who informed her she was her new account manager. Julia persuaded Mrs S to 
invest a further €3,000 plus a transaction fee of £78.84 paid on 12 October 2018. This was 
paid on the promise that the money would be returned to the card within the same week. Mrs 
S received an email from E confirming receipt of the payment dated 12 October 2018. 
Julia called Mrs S on 23 October 2018 to let her know that shed made €10,000 profit on the 
account and shed receive the money by the end of the week. Mrs S said the calls then 
stopped. Mrs S attempted to make a withdrawal from her trading account with E but this was 
declined because they said her account hadnt been fully verified. Mrs S took steps to verify 
her account with E by signing declarations of deposits for each of her deposit transactions 
and providing proof of her identity. Once E confirmed verification of her account, they 
stopped responding to her withdrawal requests. 
On 22 November 2018, Mrs S received a withdrawal request confirmation of €1 from E but 
doesnt know why as shed requested a full refund. Mrs S provided a screenshot of her 
account balance with E on 22 November 2018 which showed an available balance of 
€10,422.33. She continued to request a refund of her available balance but received no 
further response. 
Mrs S contacted Marks & Spencer for assistance with recovering her payments on 23 
January 2019 on the basis that she was unable to withdraw her funds and E werent 
answering her calls or responding to her emails. 
Marks & Spencer confirmed it blocked an attempted transaction of €3,000 on 12 October 
2018 and contacted Mrs S to confirm the transaction was genuine. It concluded it had no 
chargeback or section 75 options. 
One of our Investigators concluded first of all that E had operated a scam. She noted that 
each of Mrs S payments was sent to what appeared to be payment processors; 
Finmarket.Tradefinmark, Finproduct.Tradefinpro and Fxplace.Trade rather than E directly. 
But noted that there was evidence to support that E used these merchants as their payment 
processors and was satisfied the payments were sent directly to Mrs S trading account with 
E. She felt that whilst a claim under the Mastercard scheme rules wouldnt have succeeded, 
a claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract had been established for section 75. 
She suggested that Marks & Spencer return the disputed transactions plus interest. 
Marks & Spencer didnt agree. It said in summary:
The payments individually went to three separate companies, none of which were E 
and they appear to be separate organisations and unrelated to E. 
It is not relevant that E accepted it received the payments if Mrs S investment 
account was funded via different companies. The payments did not go to E and 
therefore there is no DCS. 
The payments were made to Fintech, Finmarket and Fxplace, not E. There is no 
evidence that they made any representations and there can have been no breach of 
contract. 
It is familiar with the wording used (by the Investigator) which appears verbatim in 
numerous opinions it has received from this service which consider liability under 
section 75 in the context of complaints relating to trading platforms. It is a tick-box, 
formulaic approach to determining such cases, not one that can be decided by what 
is fair and reasonable in all circumstances of the case. 
To succeed on a section 75 claim founded on misrepresentation there must have 
been an identifiable false statement of fact. It is not sufficient to establish liability for 
misrepresentation to simply assume that it is likely that a false statement of fact was 
made by someone at some point. For instance, the description of the background 
suggests that Mrs S was told that she would make a big profit  that is not only a 
vague phrase not capable of amounting to a misrepresentation, but there is no 
specific information as to when it was allegedly said and the words that were used. 
The suggestion that Mrs S was told she could easily withdraw the money when she 
wanted is equally insufficient. Aside from there being no evidence other than Mrs S 
verbal say so, Mrs S did not apparently request withdrawals until she asked for a 
refund in or around November 2018. By that time, it was entirely possible that she 
had lost funds in her account  regardless of that the Investigator simply has no 
knowledge about the merchants reasons for refusing a withdrawal, if indeed they did. 
A mere suggestion that Mrs S could make money from the platform does not equate 
to a statement of fact by E that it operated a legitimate business. The Investigator 
has not identified who made such alleged representation. To state you might make 
money is not a statement of fact but rather of possibility. 
It has not seen Es terms and conditions and alternative contractual terms should not 
be imputed unless there is clear evidence that those terms were agreed as between 
the parties. 
No clear explanation as to how liability arises has been provided. 
As Marks & Spencer didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for determination. 
I wrote to Marks & Spencer to ask what it believed Fintech, Finmarket and Fxplaces role in 
the transactions were if it doesnt agree they were simply acting as payment processors. I 
also asked Marks & Spencer to provide the evidence it relied upon to conclude that Fintech, 
Finmarket and Fxplace were doing more than just processing the payments. Marks & 
Spencer replied to say they found the questions confusing and it is not its role to prove there 
is a link between E and Fintech, Finmarket and Fxplace. It invited me to provide a detailed 
report and any evidence I wished to rely on for it to review its position again. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive first considered that Mrs S had no valid chargeback rights because the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme significantly limits any chargeback options related to investments or 
gambling.
 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs S complaint on the 
basis that Marks & Spencer is liable to her under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set 
out what the Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
Act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  
insomuch and whilst there are four parties involved in each of the payments:
1. Mrs S (the debtor)
2. Marks & Spencer (the creditor); 
3. Finmarket.Tradefinmark (payment processor for payment 1); Finproduct.Tradefinpro 
(payment processor for payment 2); Fxplace.Trade (payment processor for payment 
3)
4. E (the supplier)  as shown on Mrs S payment receipts and correspondence. 
Marks & Spencer doesnt appear to dispute that the involvement of a payment processor 
doesnt break the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. But Ive covered this off in the event 
that it does. Based on the evidence Ive seen which includes; payment receipts from E for 
each of the payments, evidence the payments directly credit Mrs S trading platform with E 
and all communication surrounding each payment being between Mrs S and E, I find that  
Finmarket, Finproduct and Fxplace were doing no more than simply processing the 
payments for E. Ive also noted the same merchants are used across multiple similar 
complaints at this service and appear to act as payment processors only. Marks & Spencer 
were unable to evidence why they concluded Finmarket, Finproduct and Fxplace were unrelated to E. Mrs S has gone to lengths to provide as much evidence as she reasonably 
can and on balance, Im persuaded that Finmarket, Finproduct and Fxplace were acting in 
the capacity of payment processors to process the payments on behalf of E. 
Where a payment processor is used in a credit card transaction, it doesnt break the debtor-
creditor-supplier chain, it just creates a four-party agreement. Weve published final 
decisions on this issue. 
 
The impact of this development on the four party agreement on s.75 was considered by the 
Court of Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT 
case). The Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party 
structure meant that the system had evolved significantly beyond the state of affairs to which 
s.75 had been directed. They concluded that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their 
judgment:
From the customer's point of view  it is difficult to see any justification for drawing a 
distinction between the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of 
those card issuers such as Lloyds TSB, who operate under both three-party and four-party 
structures, the customer has no means of knowing whether any given transaction is 
conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the card 
issuer and the supplier the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same: 
each benefits from the involvement of the other in a way that makes it possible to regard 
them as involved in something akin to a joint venture, just as much as in the case of the  
three-party structure.
They went on to say;
It is clear that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-party or four-party 
structure, the purpose of the credit agreement is to provide the customer with the means to 
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases the card issuer finances the 
transaction between the customer and the supplier by making credit available at the point of 
purchase in accordance with the credit agreement. The fact that it does so through the 
medium of an agreement with the merchant acquirer does not detract from that because it is 
the card issuer's agreement to provide credit to the customer that provides the financial 
basis for the transaction with the supplier.
In order for s.75 to apply there has to have been arrangements between Marks & Spencer 
and the Supplier (E) to finance transactions between Marks & Spencers cardholder (Mrs S) 
and E. Its clear that there was no direct arrangement between them, but this isnt 
necessarily fatal to the application of s.75. I say this because the Judge who heard the OFT 
case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) had also considered the meaning of the word 
arrangements, as used in section 12, and whether there existed relevant arrangements 
between creditors and suppliers (the scam here) in the four-party situation. He said that the 
use of the word showed a deliberate intention on the part of the draftsman to use broad, 
loose language, which was to be contrasted with the word agreement. In the Court of 
Appeal, the creditors argued that arrangements should be given a narrower meaning that 
took the four-party structure outside the definition. But the Court of Appeal agreed with the 
Judge that arrangements had been used to embrace a wide range of commercial 
structures having substantially the same effect. They held it was difficult to resist the 
conclusion that such arrangements existed between credit card issuers and suppliers who 
agreed to accept their cards, and stated;
Moreover, we find it difficult to accept that Parliament would have been willing to allow some 
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other 
consumers were protected because the relevant arrangements were direct.Here Finmarket, Finproduct and Fxplace are specifically referenced as payment processors 
in multiple complaints involving trading platforms at this service. They appear to be in the 
business of providing financial transactional services. The transactional services provided 
here by these parties are in effect those that have been outsourced to them by E. And 
clearly the network in this case had arrangements with Finmarket, Finproduct and Fxplace 
(and any Merchant Acquirer) and Marks & Spencer would be able to know of the parties 
within the arrangement here and the respective offerings provided prior to the transactions in 
this case by dint of Finmarket, Finproduct and Fxplace and any Merchant Acquirer being 
users of the network used here.
Im therefore satisfied that Finmarket, Finproduct and Fxplace were acting in the capacity of 
payment processors on behalf of E and Ive seen no other such evidence from Marks & 
Spencer that refutes this. 
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Mrs S has 
deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she wished. Given the 
exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a 
transaction for each of the deposits (which Ill call the deposit-transactions) as defined by 
the Act. 
Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to her purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for her purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mrs S had not used her credit card she would have 
had to find the cash from her own resources to fund the deposit transactions and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled her to. So, its clear that the deposit-transactions 
were financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what Mrs S claim is 
here. Its evident from her testimony and correspondence she provided that she feels she 
was tricked into depositing the payments with E for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mrs S to deposit larger amounts. 
Mrs S does not believe that E was operating legitimately and believes she was misled into 
thinking they were.
This claim  that Mrs S was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if Mrs S was told by E matters that were factually untrue in order to 
trick her into entering into the deposit-transactions, her claim would be for misrepresentation. 
Or, if E made binding promises to her as part of those transactions and went on to breach 
these that would make her claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
Marks & Spencer has declined the claim under s.75 because it says that Mrs S was paying 
into a binary options account and these are classed as a form of gambling by the UKs 
Gambling Commission. It said, the deposits were not for the purchase of goods/services, 
they were a credit to her trading account. I take this to mean that the deposits were nothing 
more than transferring money onto another account, opened for the purpose of speculating 
with the money, rather than being a payment that was used to purchase goods. 
When funds are deposited onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of 
money between accounts, it may also have been paid in return for something. In this case E 
has made contractual promises in exchange for the deposit-transactions. Marks & Spencer 
in its refusal to accept liability under s.75 havent quoted the Act itself. It is important to note 
that s.75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is there anything within 
the Act that would exclude the present type of transaction.  
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to the credit card deposit-
transactions. 
Ill therefore go on to consider whether Mrs S has a valid claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mrs S has made a claim of misrepresentation by E  that claim being that they 
represented to her that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mrs S into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise - one 
in which Mrs S could have ever received back more money than she deposited, then it 
follows that any statements made by E to the contrary are likely to be a misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mrs S could make money from the platform is likely to suffice 
as entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied that based on Mrs S account of events, the nature of the situation 
and Mrs S communication with her E broker that they did claim that Mrs S could have made 
money from the trading platform. 
That induced her into entering the agreement
Again, had Mrs S known that the trading platform was essentially a scam designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service, theres really little question of her 
not investing with E. Consequently, should I be satisfied that E isnt operating a legitimate 
enterprise then inducement will also be demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that Ive found Mrs S account of 
events both detailed and compelling. But more than this, its corroborated not just by other complaints of this nature but specific complaints against this particular merchant. Because of 
this Im minded to find her account to be truthful.
So, turning to her account, I note that she mentioned coming into contact with E after 
receiving a cold call. Mrs S says E promised her large returns with a dedicated senior 
account manager who would guide her through her trades. When Mrs S tried to withdraw her 
money, she was told that she first had to verify her account. When she indeed verified her 
account (as confirmed by E), E failed to reply to any further requests from her to withdraw 
her available balances  despite there being an available balance on her trading account. 
Ive noted this evidence was provided to Marks & Spencer by Mrs S - despite its suggestion 
that such evidence may not exist. 
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law enforcement 
agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that repeat the tactics 
used by E. Which does lead me to seriously question whether any actual trades were being 
placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact the merchant is offering little 
more than a video game or simulation.
Ive noted the following: 
E was not regulated with the FCA (as required) at the time it offered its services to 
Mrs S  or any other jurisdiction as far as Im reasonably aware. In a press release 
on 12 January 2018, the FCA said: Since January 3rd 2018, firms involved in binary 
options trading in the UK have been required to be authorised by the FCA. Firms that 
are not authorised by the FCA and continue with binary options activities beyond that 
date will be acting in breach of section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA), which is a criminal offence. Given that E were selling binary options in 
the UK without the required authorisation, the FCA clarified it was committing a 
criminal offence by doing so. 
On 26 October 2017, Visa - in a global publication to its merchant acquirers and card 
issuers  issued the following statement explaining why it introduced a 
misrepresentation chargeback option specific to binary options dealers: Binary 
options merchants typically operate in a card-absent environment and market their 
products in the form of a wager where consumers bet on the price of an asset that 
may involve a currency, a commodity, a stock index or a stock share. These 
merchants may operate unregulated trading platforms prone to manipulation by the 
controlling entities. Binary options are also referred to as all-or-nothing options, digital 
options, fixed-return options and one-touch options. To gain consumer confidence, 
binary options merchants may use sophisticated terminology to emulate legitimate 
broker / dealers, but are often unlicensed to operate in the countries they target. Law 
enforcement has informed Visa that certain binary options merchants have imposed 
obstacles to prevent cardholders from withdrawing funds from their accounts by: 
oPlacing calls to deceive the cardholder into believing cash payouts will be 
forthcoming from their accounts, so that they will continue trading. 
oRequiring additional personal information (e.g., photocopy of utility bill, 
drivers license, passport or credit card) under the pretense of validating 
cardholders identity before account proceeds can be refunded. This practice 
exposes the cardholder to identity theft. 
oImposing additional ad-hoc requirements that prevent cardholders from 
withdrawing funds.
Ive noted that Visas insight of the deceptive conduct for unregulated binary options merchants matches Mrs S interactions with E. 
E is no longer operating and has not operated for some time. There are also several online 
reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of Mrs S. 
I would also question the legitimacy of any investment broker pressuring consumers into 
using credit - as E did here - to invest in products that could lose money. 
Next, is the refusal to allow withdrawals from the platform  again a complaint repeated 
across many complaints against similar firms. I note Mrs S has provided evidence of her 
multiple attempts to withdraw the money from her trading platform and E didnt reply  other 
than to obtain personal sensitive information from her in order to verify her account. Mrs S 
also provided evidence to this office and Marks & Spencer (which it provided as part of its 
business file) that she had available balances at the point of her withdrawal requests. 
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely E was operating a legitimate enterprise. This 
means that I think they have made misrepresentations to Mrs S  specifically that they were 
running a genuine enterprise through which she could ever have got back more than her 
deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mrs S had known this, she wouldnt have 
deposited any money, so she was induced into the contract on the basis of these 
misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, he is entitled to recover from the wrongdoer 
all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities v 
Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that must 
be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation.
And
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction fee
The transaction fees linked to the deposit-transactions is somewhat straight forward to cover 
off. Had the deposit-transactions not have occurred the transaction fees couldnt have 
occurred. The transaction fee was a direct consequence of each deposit-transaction. 
As the payment was made outside of the UK, its foreseeable that a bank used by Mrs S to 
make the deposit would attach a fee for converting the payment. So, Im satisfied Mrs Ss 
payment of the transaction fees was consequential loss in misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract 
Here, Mrs S has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use 
those funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she 
wished. Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im 
satisfied there was a transaction (the deposit-transactions) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that E had contractual obligations:a) To enable Mrs S to use the funds from her deposit-transactions on an investment 
platform;
and 
b) To enable Mrs S to withdraw the funds deposited as and when she wished.
Mrs S wasnt permitted to withdraw the funds from her trading account, she provided 
evidence of her communication with E where she made multiple requests to withdraw her 
available balances and they imposed obstacles (similar to that described by Visa) to prevent 
her from doing so. E ultimately stopped responded to Mrs S once she fully verified her 
account with them. 
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mrs Ss loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of the deposit-transactions.
Transaction fee
I need to consider how much better off Mrs S would have been if the E had fulfilled their 
contractual obligations to her. Applying that test to each deposit-transaction, its clear that 
each transaction fee was not a recoverable consequence of the deposit-transaction. I say 
this because allowing Mrs S to trade on the account and withdraw the deposit as and when 
she wished would not have prevented her from having to pay the transaction fee. 
So, the transaction fee should not be held as a recoverable loss in connection with the 
breach of contract claim relating to the deposit-transactions.
 
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds Mrs S could have recovered her deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Mrs S has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that E made a series of misrepresentations, namely that they were operating 
a legitimate enterprise and that Mrs S could access her money freely and earn a 
profit from her deposit-transactions. Im also satisfied that the deposit-transaction 
fees meets the test for consequential loss in misrepresentation as they wouldnt have 
been incurred but for the deposit-transactions. They were also a direct and 
foreseeable loss as a result of the deposit-transactions. 
Breach of contract: Im satisfied Mrs S also has a claim for breach of contract as E 
breached the verbal promises to Mrs S. Namely that she would be able to use the 
funds from her deposit-transactions on an investment platform and access them 
freely  when she wished.  This provides another basis for recovery of the deposit-
transactions but not the deposit-transaction fees. 
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, Marks & Spencer should put Mrs S 
back into the position she would have been had the deposit-transactions of €5,250 
(£4,660.24 as debited from Mrs S Marks & Spencer Mastercard credit card) had not been 
entered into and transaction fees of £139.35 had not been charged by Marks & Spencer. So, 
she should receive refunds of these amounts, less any amounts credited to her by E.
My final decision
My final decision is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc should refund Mrs S the 
deposit-transactions and transaction fees, plus interest. It should:Refund the deposit-transactions, less any amounts credited to Mrs S Marks & 
Spencer credit card account by E; 
Refund the transaction fees; 
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If Marks & Spencer deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mrs S with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman