DRN-3842642
The complaint
Mr S and Ms M complain about Allianz Insurance Plcs (Allianz) handling of a claim made 
under their buildings insurance policy.
Any references to Allianz include its agents.
 
What happened
In January 2022, a retaining wall at the bottom of Mr S and Ms Ms property partially 
collapsed. They made a claim to Allianz, as they believed recent storm conditions led to the 
collapse. They say this conclusion was supported by their structural engineer.  
Allianz instructed a loss adjuster who initially told Mr S they considered the likely cause of 
the collapse was landslip. They said the claim wouldnt be covered by the policy because 
there was no damage to the site at the same time the wall collapsed. Mr S and Ms M asked 
for the claim to be reconsidered. Allianz arranged for a structural engineer to inspect the 
wall.
The structural engineer did so but couldnt determine the cause of the collapse. They said it 
could be down to either the condition or suitability of the wall, vegetation which was growing 
behind the wall, or storm conditions. As a result, Allianz declined the claim. Allianz said the 
claim should be declined because the structural engineer could not identify an insured event 
as being the cause for the wall collapsing. Mr S and Ms M were unhappy and complained. 
Allianz maintained the wall was covered with vegetation, which indicated a lack of 
maintenance and wear and tear. 
Mr S and Ms M referred their complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our 
investigators who said she didnt consider Allianz had acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
As Mr S and Ms M didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been noted, the proximate cause of the damage here is landslip. But there is an 
exclusion in the policy which comes into force here because there was no damage to the site 
at the time the wall collapsed. So, Ive considered whether Allianz decision to decline the 
claim for storm damage was fair. And Im sorry to disappoint Mr S and Ms M, but Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill set out why.
The first question Ive considered was whether storm conditions occurred on or around the 
date the damage is said to have happened. Mr S says its well documented there were 
several named storms that impacted where they lived in the run up to the wall collapsing, as 
well as what he considers to be heavy rainfall earlier in January 2022. I dont dispute this. 
But its also accepted there were high winds in excess of 50mph on the date the wall 
collapsed so, overall, Im satisfied storm conditions occurred. 
The second and third questions to be considered are if the damage claimed for is typical of 
storm conditions and if storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
Ive considered the information provided by both sides, including the findings of the 
independent structural engineer who inspected the wall. He noted a section of the wall 
adjacent to the collapsed section was in poor condition and said the collapsed wall wouldnt 
have been sufficiently strong to support the vegetation behind it. Ive also considered the 
online mapping images that showed vegetation to be growing over the wall. Whilst these 
were from a couple of years before it collapsed, Im mindful of the comments from Mr S and 
Ms M that they hadnt carried out any maintenance of the wall since they purchased the 
property. It seems likely that the wall had a similar level of vegetation when it collapsed. 
Mr S and Ms M say the view of their structural engineer is the wall collapsed as a result of 
the high and changing direction of the winds with heavy and persistent rainfall which put 
pressure on the trees and land immediately above the wall.
Ive also noted Mr S and Ms Ms structural engineer noted rebuilding the wall as it had been 
before it collapsed wouldnt provide a sufficient level of support. The recommendation was 
any rebuilt wall ought to include reinforcement pins. When considering all of this evidence 
together, even if I accept there had been increased rainfall consistent with storm conditions 
before the collapse, Im not persuaded the damage of the collapsed wall is consistent with 
the type of damage wed usually see in storm conditions. Its true the structural engineer 
appointed by Allianz wasnt able to identify an insured event which caused the wall to 
collapse. But that doesnt mean the policy automatically must cover the claim. On balance, I 
think its more likely that the wall gradually deteriorated over time, and the poor weather 
conditions highlighted this.
I consider Allianz has acted fairly in concluding the damage was as a result of wear and tear, 
which is excluded under the policy. Im not going to require it to take any action in repairing 
the wall. I accept this wont be the answer Mr S and Ms M were hoping for, and Im sorry to 
disappoint them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman