DRN-2310169
Complaint
Mr D says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI).
Background
Mr D took out an MPPI policy in 2007, having taken out a mortgage with Santander in 2005. 
He paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
On 4 March 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision I explained 
that I agreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. But I provided some further 
clarification and gave Mr D and Santander an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of 
what I said:
Mr D says the cost, terms and conditions and exclusions were not explained to him and that 
he did not need or want the MPPI. Santander says Mr D would have had a choice about the 
MPPI and that it would have gained his consent before adding it to his mortgage. 
Santander has told us that the MPPI was taken out during a meeting at the same time Mr D 
applied for a further advance. Santander has told us that Mr D would have needed to 
complete a separate application form and sign a separate direct debit for the MPPI to be 
taken out.  It hasnt, however, been able to provide copies of the paperwork for the MPPI 
which Mr D wouldve completed at the time of sale. This isnt unusual given the sale took 
place some years ago and businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. 
Because the point of sale information isnt available, I have to base my findings on what I 
think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances. In order to uphold the complaint, 
I would need to see persuasive evidence to show that Santander didnt give Mr D a choice 
when it came to the MPPI. Ive thought carefully about what Mr D has said. But, taking into 
account the time thats passed and the limited information available by both parties, I cant 
assume that something went wrong, when theres no persuasive evidence to suggest that 
something did. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint on this basis. 
I also note that documentation relating to the MPPI was sent to Mr D following the sale and 
that at least eight payments were taken. If Mr D did not recognise the payment or was 
unhappy with the cover, I would have expected him to raise this with the business sooner 
than he did.
Due to the limited information available, Santander has presumed it recommended the MPPI 
to Mr D. This means it needed to ensure the policy was right for him. Based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time I think it was. He was eligible for cover and I cant see 
that he would have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-
existing medical conditions. 
Mr D has said he wouldnt have been entitled to any sick pay if he was too ill to work. When 
asked about savings and other means available to him, he has told us he didnt have any 
other insurance cover in place and gave us details of his approximate salary. So he hasnt 
told us about any savings or other means he could have used to cover the mortgage 
repayments if he ever fell on hard times. 
Having thought about what Mr D has told us about his circumstances at the time of sale, Im 
satisfied this shows he had a need for the MPPI. I say this because the MPPI would have 
paid out if Mr D was sick and also would have paid a benefit if he became unemployed. So I 
think the MPPI would have been useful to Mr D if he ever became too unwell to work or lost 
his job. It also looks like it was affordable. It follows that I dont think Santander was wrong to 
recommend the PPI to him. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr D about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr D doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the 
policy could have been useful to him. So I dont think better information would have stopped 
him buying it. 
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision. 
Neither Mr D nor Santander responded with anything further for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
As neither Mr D nor Santander provided any further evidence or arguments for me to look at, 
Ive reached the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons. So I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman