DRN-3263845
The complaint
Mrs M complains TSB Bank plc sent her credit card statements to the wrong address.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons: 
TSB hasnt disputed it continued to send Mrs Ms statements to the wrong address. 
And they did so despite dealing with a previous complaint in which they gave 
assurances her address had been updated. TSB has confirmed Mrs Ms address 
has now been updated correctly. So, Ive had to consider the impact of TSBs 
mistake on Mrs M.
Given the potential consequences of personal data getting into the wrong hands, 
I would have expected TSB to have taken sufficient steps to prevent their mistake 
from happening again. Its for this same reason I dont consider Mrs M has been 
unreasonable for being concerned about the security of her personal data. 
Fortunately, Ive not seen any evidence that suggests Mrs M has been a victim of 
fraud or any scams as a result of TSBs mistake. We can only make awards for 
things that have happened, not hypotheticals, so thats what Ive focused on when 
deciding Mrs Ms case.
Mrs M believed the issue with her statements had been resolved, so it would have 
been a shock to find out that wasnt the case. She was also inconvenienced by 
having to raise the matter with TSB again. Mrs M told us she tried to raise the issue 
in branch on a number of separate occasions, so her time was essentially wasted for 
something that should have been resolved some time ago. TSB acknowledged their 
mistake and offered Mrs M £150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
their mistake caused. Taking everything into consideration, I think this offer is fair 
and in line with what I would have awarded had TSB not already made their offer. 
Thats because Im satisfied TSB resolved the crux of her complaint, and that is 
ensuring her statements are sent to the correct address moving forward. I also had 
to place weight on the fact that raising a complaint inevitably comes with some 
inconvenience. So, given TSB acknowledged and rectified this second mistake 
relatively quickly, I dont consider a higher award is appropriate in the 
circumstances.
For these reasons, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint, albeit not quite in the way she hoped.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint about TSB Bank plc.
TSB Bank plc has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that TSB Bank plc should pay Mrs M £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman