DRN-2321066
The complaint
Mrs B complains on behalf of the estate of Mr B (her husband), about the sale of his annuity 
by Standard Life Assurance Limited in 2006.
What happened
Mr B paid into a Group Personal Pension Plan (GPPP) with Standard Life from 2000.
In 2006, at the age of 50, Mr B took a tax-free lump sum of 25% of the GPPPs value. With 
the remainder of the GPPP he bought an annuity with Standard Life. Mr B bought an annuity 
that had a ten-year guarantee. This meant that if he passed away within the first ten years 
the annuity would continue to pay his estate up to ten years from it having started.
Sadly Mr B passed away in 2010. His Standard Life annuity continued to be paid to Mrs B for 
the remainder of the guarantee period. After the guarantee period ended in July 2015 the 
annuity payments stopped.
Mrs B complained to Standard Life in 2019 on behalf of the estate of Mr B. She said that her 
husbands annuity had been mis-sold. She said that he would have wanted the annuity to 
provide an ongoing pension for her in the event of his death. She also said that he had 
health conditions that werent considered.
Standard Life considered Mrs Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that Mr B had 
made his own decision about his choice of annuity and they didnt provide financial advice. 
Standard Life said that Mr B was sent the information he needed to be able decide what to 
do. Standard Life didnt think that Mr B wouldve been able to obtain an enhanced annuity 
based on its understanding of his health and the availability across the market at the time.
Our investigator looked into this complaint but didnt uphold it. He said that Standard Life 
hadnt advised Mr B on the sale of his annuity. He said that Standard Life were responsible 
for providing clear information that was not misleading and he said that Standard Life had 
done that. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said that Standard Life should have asked her husband about his 
health conditions and lifestyle when they sold him the annuity on the phone. Mrs B is 
concerned that her husband took no financial advice and hadnt spoken to her about his 
decision although Standard Life said he had. She said that Standard Life should have 
highlighted the risks between different types of annuities during the phone conversations, 
with specific concerns that Mr B wasnt provided enough information to understand that his 
pension wouldnt continue to pay her in the event of his death.
Mrs B asked for her complaint to be reconsidered by an ombudsman. I looked into the 
circumstances of her complaint and issued a provisional decision, explaining why I didnt 
think this complaint should be upheld, and giving Mrs B and Prudential the opportunity to 
comment.
My provisional Findings
In my provisional findings I said:
Mrs B has referred to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Thematic Review published in 
October 2016 (TR16/17). This review found certain issues with the sale of annuities where 
providers may not have provided the correct information  about enhanced annuities and 
open market options (OMO)  to enable certain consumers to make informed decisions. 
TR16/17 required that businesses review their non-advised annuity sales, to their own 
customers, between May 2008 and April 2015. Mr Bs annuity sale in 2006 wasnt in the 
scope of this review, but that doesnt mean that there may not have been similar issues with 
the conduct of that sale. There was no reason for Standard Life to have reviewed this sale 
so the criteria for that review wont strictly apply. But there were similar rules in place around 
the conduct of businesses when selling annuities, so this sale should be held to the relevant 
standards in place in 2006. I make this point because the rules around the information that 
businesses should provide became stricter over time. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) released a statement of good practice for pensions 
maturity in December 2005. So this sets out the standards I think it would be fair to hold 
Standard Life to when they sold Mr B his annuity. Standard Life were also expected to 
explain the financial advantages and disadvantages in general terms of different types of 
annuity, communicating that in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
Ive listened to the calls Mr B made in December 2005 and in July 2006. In December 2005 
he makes a call asking about the value of his pension and asks about his options for taking it 
all out as a lump sum. Mr B made a second call later that day to take his 25% tax free lump 
sum, but then didnt go ahead with it when it was explained that he would have to use the 
remainder to buy an annuity at that point.
Standard Lifes call taker went through some standard annuity options on the phone and 
agreed with Mr B to send out the annuity quotes. There was no pressure on the call for Mr B 
to purchase any type of annuity, and the call taker suggested that Mr B seek advice and 
reminded him of the details of the independent financial adviser (IFA) linked to his policy 
already. In response he suggested that he would contact his adviser. Of course, the decision 
whether to speak to an IFA was a matter for Mr B. There would likely have been a cost to do 
so. It was neither compulsory for Mr B to obtain advice, nor for Standard Life to insist that he 
did. The fact that he didnt seek independent advice didnt make Standard Life responsible 
for providing financial advice instead. Their responsibility was to provide enough information 
in a clear and not misleading way for Mr B to make a choice. I think the way that call was 
dealt with was fair. Mr B wasnt advised about his choices but told he would be sent annuity 
quotes to consider in his own time.
In the call made in July 2006 Mr B was asked at the start if he was calling to go ahead or to 
do some quotes. He told the call taker No go ahead with it, Ive had that, Ive been through 
all that. So given the promise to send out the quotes and his comments when he called to 
go ahead with it, I think its more likely than not that hed been sent the quotes.
Standard Life havent been able to provide personalised copies of the annuity quotes or 
letters that Mr B was sent in 2005. Instead theyve provided copies of the annuity letter 
templates and the Retirement Guide that were in use at the time and that Standard Life say 
would have gone out to Mr B. Im satisfied that quotations would have been sent in a 
standardised format, particularly as Mr B didnt specify any particular options he was 
interested in during the call in December 2005.The template letter also referred to the 
Retirement Guide, so on balance I think its more likely than not Mr B would have received 
this information.Ive read that guide and under the heading providing a pension for your dependants it 
explained that there were annuity options that continued to be payable on death to a spouse. 
The information provided within that guide made this clear as an option. Its on the same 
page as the section headed the guarantee period option which outlined the option to 
guarantee an annuity to be paid for up to ten years. This was set out in a clear and simple 
way.
The guide also contained a brief section headed Other options. It said:
You dont have to buy your Lifetime Annuity from Standard Life  you may be able to 
get a higher pension from another authorised Lifetime Annuity provider.
And:
Depending upon your circumstances, an impaired life or enhanced lifetime annuity 
may be appropriate. These types of Lifetime Annuity may offer higher levels of 
pension to those who have a reduced life expectance. Standard Life does not 
currently offer this type of product. But your financial adviser will be able to tell you 
which companies do offer these.
I think that the information provided in that guide, whilst brief, gave Mr B the information that 
Standard Life had to provide to comply with the ABI good practice at the time. To have 
obtained an enhanced annuity Mr B wouldve had to have shopped around because 
Standard Life didnt offer that. 
Even though the information was meant to help him understand his options, the phone call in 
2006 when the annuity was sold, showed he didnt understand them. He called Standard Life 
several months after he had received the quotation pack. When Standard Lifes call handler 
asked him which option he wanted he simply said that he wanted the tax-free cash option. 
When pressed further on which choice of annuity he wanted with the remaining pension, he 
clearly hadnt decided and couldnt provide an answer. 
At that point the call handler then had to explain annuity options. He gave quotes on a single 
life annuity and explained the option of guarantee periods for five and ten years too. I think 
the explanation of these was fine and Mr B understood. But Mr B wasnt told about other 
options, for example joint life annuities or index linked ones.
Had Mr B completed his application in writing when he was sent his quotes, then the 
information he was sent - whilst it could have been more detailed - would have likely been 
enough to make his decision. In this case though he has made a phone call. The retirement 
guide did offer the option of phoning a customer service representative to explain the 
contents of the guide. So I would expect that the call handler should have done more to 
ensure Mr B understood his options, particularly as the call handler should have noticed that 
Mr B didnt understand what annuity options were available. The call handler should have 
taken more time to run through all of Mr Bs options in general terms. This wouldnt have 
been providing advice. But it would have satisfied their requirement to explain his annuity 
options in a clear and not misleading way. I can see that in both calls Standard Lifes 
representatives asked whether Mr B had taken advice. This was good but wasnt an 
alternative to making sure that Mr B understood. So I dont think that Standard Life did 
enough to meet their requirements at the point of sale. Some key information should have 
been repeated in the call, including the option to go to the open market, the availability of 
enhanced annuities and other annuity options.
Having decided that Mr B wasnt provided the service I wouldve expected, I need to decide 
what impact that had. Obviously I cant know what Mr B would have done if hed better understood his options. The phone call he made in 2005 makes me think that his main 
reason for taking his pension at that stage was to allow him to access a cash lump sum. I 
say that because, in that call, he was initially interested to know if he could take his whole 
pension as a cash lump sum. He wasnt allowed to do that though, although had the rules 
been different I think its likely he would have looked to do that, taking no annuity at all.
The maximum amount that Mr B could take as a lump sum though was 25% of his funds 
value. His fund was valued at £12,765.86 at the time so his maximum lump sum was 
£3,191.47, which he took. This choice along with his early conversation exploring how much 
he could take as cash, makes me think that he was prioritising early access to as much of 
his pension early as he could. 
The annuity that Mr B got was £453.96 a year. He opted to have this paid annually in 
advance which again indicates a wish to access the money as soon as possible. Given the 
way that annuities are priced, an annuity that would have continued to pay Mrs B until her 
death after Mr B passed away would have been significantly reduced. Given the fact that this 
was a relatively small annuity Im not persuaded that Mr B would have chosen an even 
smaller annual payment in 2005, so that it would provide benefits to his wife for longer. Im 
certainly not suggesting that Mr B wasnt considering providing for Mrs B after he passed 
away. After all he chose a guarantee period. But the size of the annuity involved just wasnt 
enough to have provided financial security for Mrs B. And a joint life annuity offering 100% of 
the annuity would have been considerably more expensive than a guarantee period. On 
balance I cant say its more likely than not Mr B would have chosen to sacrifice access to 
income at the time given the sums involved.  
Ive also considered whether the fact that Mr B wasnt told in the call about the availability of 
enhanced annuities or the OMO, wouldve made a difference. Both options wouldve meant 
a delay in Mr B accessing his pension. In the case of an enhanced annuity Mr B may even 
have needed to seek independent financial advice to find a provider that offered that. His 
tax-free lump sum wouldnt have changed though and shopping around would have meant a 
delay in his accessing that. On the call in 2006 he was very clear on wanting immediate 
access to his lump sum. So I cant say that its more likely than not, that Mr B would have 
delayed accessing his pension to shop around for an enhanced annuity or better deal, even 
if hed been told about the options.
I know that Mrs B is concerned that Mr B hadnt taken advice and that Standard Life said he 
had spoken to her. Ive listened to the call though and Standard Life are right in saying that 
Mr B told them he had spoken to friends and his wife. I cant say whether he had, but only 
that he told Standard Life that he had. But I dont think it would have made a difference. The 
decision about what to do with his pension was Mr Bs to make and Standard Life didnt have 
to act differently if Mr B had told them he had received no advice at all.
For the above reasons I dont think that Standard Life did all that they should have when 
Mr B came to take his pension with them. But, because Im not persuaded that Mr B would 
have made a different choice if he had, Im not proposing that Standard Life to do anything to 
put things right.The response to my provisional findings
Mrs B responded to explain that she didnt accept my decision. Mrs B was unhappy that I 
wasnt minded to uphold this complaint, even though I determined that Standard Life made 
mistakes in the way the annuity sale was handled. Mrs B has also suggested that I have 
reached my decision based on my interpretation and assumptions and not actual facts.
Standard Life had no further comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision Ive looked at all of the evidence and listened carefully to the calls 
that Mr B made to Standard Life. I explained in my provisional decision that I thought that 
Standard Life shouldve done more to ensure Mr B understood his annuity option at the point 
of sale. Ive noted Mrs Bs disappointment with the fact that Ive found fault with Standard 
Life, but havent asked them to do anything further. 
The role of our service isnt to punish businesses that do something wrong though. We arent 
the industry regulator. My job in considering a complaint where a business has made a 
mistake, is to decide what the impact was on the consumer. And where the consumer has 
been disadvantaged, try to put them back into the position they would have been in if the 
mistake hadnt happened.
Of course, Im unable to know what Mr B would have done. In this case Ive had to interpret 
the facts that Ive been given, to determine what I think on balance would have been the 
most likely outcome. In my provisional decision I explained why I thought it was more likely 
than not, that Mr B wouldnt have done anything differently. Mrs B hasnt provided me with 
any additional information to change my mind. So for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional findings, I think that its more likely than not that Mr B would have gone ahead 
with the annuity purchase that he did. Because I dont think Mr B would have done anything 
differently, neither he nor Mrs B will have been disadvantaged by Standard Lifes mistake. 
So I wont be asking Standard Life to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the above Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
   
Gary Lane
Ombudsman