DRN-3717087
The complaint
Mr E complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) wont accept his gadget 
insurance claim and about how it handled his claim. My references to AIG include its agents. 
Mr E is represented by a friend in his complaint to us.
What happened
Mr E had two laptops and bikes stolen from his accommodation. He claimed for the bikes on 
his home insurance which was paid. He claimed for his stolen laptops on his gadget 
insurance, which was insured by AIG.
AIG said before it progressed the claim Mr E needed to confirm he hadnt claimed for the 
laptops under his home insurance policy. He also had to put the laptops into lost mode 
through iCloud to show they could no longer be used. And it wanted confirmation the laptop 
was collected from the seller. AIG accepted it had given Mr E incorrect information during 
the claims process and hadnt managed his expectations. It had paid him £140 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr E complained to us. He said AIG had given him very poor service. It hadnt responded to 
his emails, kept chasing him for the same document which hed provided and wrongly 
charged two excesses (one was refunded). AIG had said it would send him replacement 
laptops but then said it would pay him money instead as his laptops were old versions. Mr E 
wants AIG to settle the claim on the information it has.
Our investigator said AIG acted fairly in saying it wouldnt progress the claim until Mr E 
provided the outstanding information it asked for. And AIGs payment of £140 compensation 
for Mr Es distress and inconvenience due to its service issues was reasonable.
Mr E disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said hed paid for his insurance, 
hed provided AIG with information when he made the claim and AIG was unfair not to pay 
the claim or provide replacement laptops.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I think there were problems with AIGs handling of Mr Es claim. It could have progressed the 
claim quicker, kept Mr E better informed and it gave him wrong information about the laptops 
being replaced which understandably caused Mr E confusion. AIG accepts there were 
problems with its service. I think the £140 AIG paid for Mr Es distress and inconvenience 
caused by its poor service was a reasonable amount and in line with our approach to 
compensation for such matters.
AIG hasnt said it wont pay Mr Es claim. Its said it needs him to provide specific information 
before it can progress the claim.
Mr E needs to prove he has a valid claim. The policy terms and conditions set out what 
information AIG needs and says it may ask for additional information and documentation in 
order to assess your claim. 
AIG wouldnt need to pay the claim for the laptops if Mr E had claimed for the items under 
his home insurance policy. He told AIG hed claimed for the other stolen items under his 
home insurance and I think its reasonable for AIG to ask for confirmation he hadnt also 
claimed under his home insurance for his laptops. I havent seen evidence that Mr E has 
given AIG the confirmation.
AIG says Mr E still needs to put the laptops into lost mode, and confirm that the relevant 
laptop was collected from the seller. Those are reasonable requirements from AIG so it can 
confirm the laptops were owned by Mr E and are no longer in use. I havent seen evidence 
AIG has the information. The screen shots Mr E sent to AIG show a discussion with a seller 
on social media about buying a laptop but doesn't confirm he collected the laptop, which 
would show he had owned the laptop.
If Mr E can provide the missing information AIG reasonably requires it can progress its 
assessment of the claim. Mr E has asked how AIG could say it didnt need to give him 
replacement laptops. If AIG accepts the claim once it has the outstanding information the 
policy says AIG will provide:
a replacement Device that is of the same kind, quality, and condition as Your 
existing Device immediately prior to the incident giving rise to the claim. (AIG) is 
under no obligation to provide You with a new replacement DeviceIf (AIG) is 
unable to provide a replacement, it will contact You to discuss an alternative claim 
settlement. 
So under the policy terms if AIG cant provide Mr E with an appropriate replacement laptop it 
can offer an alternative settlement, which would be a cash settlement.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman