DRN-1504864
 
complaint
Mr M complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV has withdrawn his Family 
Injury policy from the market. 
background
Mr M took out the policy over 30 years ago. Then in July 2019, CIGNA wrote to him to 
explain it intended to withdraw his policy as of his renewal date on 17 January 2020. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the policy terms 
allowed CIGNA to withdraw cover as of the renewal date. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matters been referred to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments from the outset, in order to decide what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
CIGNA has made the decision to exit the health insurance market, and so its chosen to 
withdraw cover under all its health policies. 
As our investigator has explained, CIGNAs decision to withdraw Mr Ms policy was a 
commercial decision that was made in the normal course of its business. It wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to comment on CIGNAs commercial decisions, however I can look at 
whether or not I think CIGNA has treated Mr M fairly.
Ive therefore looked at the policy terms. These confirm that the policy is annually renewable, 
and that the cover will be provided if the insured pays the premium and CIGNA agrees to 
accept it. 
Given that the policy renews each year, Im satisfied that it was up to CIGNA whether or not 
it renewed cover.
Mr M says that given his age, he thinks its unlikely that another insurer would want to insure 
him and his wife unless they undergo medicals. And even then, the premium would likely be 
much higher than the premium he paid to CIGNA. He wants CIGNA to continue to provide 
cover to him until he reaches age 66.
The terms and conditions explain that the policy pays benefit in the event of an accident 
which results in permanent disability, death, or hospitalisation. These are also known as 
personal accident policies. Whilst I can understand Mr Ms concerns, it might be helpful if I explain that applicants dont 
usually need to provide details of their health when taking out this type of policy. And they 
often provide cover up to age 80, so Mr M could still take out alternative cover with another 
insurer if he wishes. I note that CIGNA provided him with details of how he could go about 
arranging alternative cover. 
Although I appreciate Mr Ms frustration that CIGNA has withdrawn cover after hes been 
paying premiums for so many years, Im satisfied that CIGNA was entitled to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
 
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman