DRN-2809737
The complaint
Mr B complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA didnt provide him with a refund for 
faulty goods he purchased using his account with it.
What happened
Mr B had an account with PayPal. He purchased an item from an online website using his 
PayPal account. He says he received the item at the start of December 2020 and gave it to a 
family member as a gift. He says the item stopped working after only four days - three hours 
of use. He contacted the seller, but he refused to give him a refund.
Mr B raised a claim with PayPal on 7 January 2021 through its online resolution centre. He 
said the item hed purchased was significantly not as described and requested a full refund. 
He escalated his claim on 10 January when the seller refused to reach a settlement with 
him. PayPal considered his claim, but it said that because the item had worked for four days 
it didnt consider that it was significantly not as described.
Mr B disagreed, but PayPal didnt change its decision. Mr B referred his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint. He said Mr B hadnt been able to provide a 
copy of the advertisement. Hed said the advertisement described the item as used - but in 
working condition. 
Our investigator said that PayPals Buyer Protection wasnt a product warranty or a 
guarantee. It allowed buyers to claim a refund where the item was significantly not as 
described. In this case, our investigator said hed not seen anything to show that the item 
was faulty before it was delivered to Mr B. Mr B hadnt been able to show why the item had 
stopped working. So, he thought Mr B hadnt shown that the item was significantly not as 
described.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the item was clearly not fit for purpose and he should receive a 
refund. Because Mr B didnt agree the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked firstly at the User Agreement. This sets out the terms of the agreement between 
Mr B and PayPal. Mr B asked PayPal to provide him with a refund under the section of the 
agreement which deals with Buyer Protection. This allows a buyer, in certain circumstances, 
to ask PayPal for a refund. The User Agreement says that Buyer Protection may apply in the 
following circumstances:
the item is not received; or
the item is significantly not as described.
Mr B received the item. So, to make a claim he needed to show that the item he received 
was significantly not as described.
The User Agreement lists the circumstances where an item may - and may not - be 
considered as significantly not as described. 
Mr B says the item was not fit for purpose because it stopped working after only three hours. 
But fit for purpose is not listed as a reason why a claim for a refund can be brought under 
the Buyer Protection provisions in the User Agreement. And, Ive also noted that the User 
Agreement states that PayPal has no control over products or services provided by sellers. 
So, it specifically disclaims any implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose  this 
means that it doesnt guarantee that an item bought using a PayPal account will be fit for a 
specific purpose.
In order to get a refund under the Buyer Protection, Mr B would have to show that his claim 
met one of the circumstances listed in the User Agreement, under the heading significantly 
not as described.   
Ive looked at each of those circumstances and considered whether anything listed there 
might apply to what happened here. 
One of the reasons listed is:
 
the condition of the item was misrepresented. For example, the item was described 
as new but the item was used.
Mr B says the item was described as used but in working condition. He says this was a 
misrepresentation, given the fact that it stopped working after only three hours. 
I can understand why Mr B was disappointed that the item stopped working within such a 
short time. Its not clear why it stopped working. Mr B says he tried, unsuccessfully, to fix it. 
He says this means the item must have been faulty when he received it. I can see that the 
User Agreement also includes the following statement:
An item may not be considered Significantly not as Described if:
The item was properly described but did not meet your expectations
Mr B said the item was working when he received it. So, I think it was properly described as 
used but in working condition. And, even though Mr B may have expected it to have 
worked for a longer period of time, that doesnt mean the item can be considered as 
significantly not as described within the meaning set out in the User Agreement. 
In these circumstances, whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr B, I dont think 
PayPal made an error when it declined his claim or that it acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about PayPal (Europe) Sarl et 
Cie SCA.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman