DRN-4281855
The complaint
E, a limited company complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
handled its chargeback claim.
E is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr K. 
What happened
In July 2022, E bought a car through an online auction website using its Barclays Visa debit 
card. E was unhappy with the quality of the car and took its concerns to the merchant. 
As E couldnt resolve matters with the merchant, it asked Barclays to initiate a chargeback 
on 25 November 2022. Barclays initially said that E had started the chargeback process in 
time before saying that it had made the claim too late. Barclays then told E that as it had 
bought the car at auction, a chargeback claim would not have been successful and 
suggested that E contact the seller. Barclays offered E £100 to apologise for the 
misinformation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Es complaint be upheld. She explained that under 
Visas rules  a chargeback must be started within 120 days of the transaction date. As E 
initiated the chargeback 137 days after buying the car, the relevant time limit had expired. 
The investigator also said it seemed unlikely that the chargeback would have been 
successful due to the terms of the auction website.
Mr K disagrees with the investigation outcome. He says Barclays initially accepted E was 
eligible to make the chargeback claim and provided a reference number. After Barclays told 
Mr K that the chargeback was made too late, he says the adviser told him that if made in 
time  Barclays would have considered investigating and making refunds. 
Mr K thinks that if Barclays had given him the correct information, he would have been able 
to minimise Es losses. Instead, Mr K says he ended up disposing of the car for much less 
than it cost.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ive summarised Es complaint in less detail than the parties and that Ive 
done so using my own words. The rules that govern our service allow me to do so but this 
doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to us.
Im sorry to disappoint E but like the investigator, I dont think Barclays needs to do or offer 
more than it already has. Its unfortunate that Barclays told E that it had started the process 
in time. As Mr K now knows  this wasnt correct and Es chargeback request was made out 
of time. But just because Barclays initially logged Es chargeback claim, doesnt mean 
Barclays was obliged to follow through once it realised its mistake.
Even if E had requested the chargeback within 120 days, Im not persuaded that the claim 
against the auction website would have been successful.  The terms of the auction website 
say that it is a vehicle listing and information service and that it accepts no responsibility for 
any arising defects or discrepancies. But even if I didnt think this, I cant criticise Barclays for 
not proceeding with the chargeback process as the relevant time limit had expired.  
I agree that Barclays misinformed Mr K when he made the chargeback request on behalf of 
E. For this failing, I consider Barclays payment of £100 was fair. It reflects the 
inconvenience caused to E when Mr K spoke to Barclays about the chargeback and when 
there was then a delay  which I assume diverted time away from running the business of E. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Barclayss 
compensation payment was fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman