DRN-2397667
The complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a personal loan in 2002. 
Mr S applied for the PPI during a meeting with Nationwide.
The policy would have paid Mr Ss monthly loan repayments until he returned to work, or 
until the loan was repaid  whichever happened sooner  if hed made a successful claim 
for accident or sickness under the policy. And it would have paid his monthly loan 
repayments for up to 12 months if hed made a successful unemployment claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The credit agreement which Mr S signed included a concise table, setting out details of 
the cost of the loan and the PPI. The columns show the principal loan, Optional Credit 
Insurance and the total.
I think Nationwide made it clear that the PPI was optional. And I think Mr S took the 
cover, knowing that he had a choice  although I can understand how he may no longer 
remember this given the time thats passed. 
Nationwide says it wouldnt have made any recommendation to Mr S about the PPI. 
Based on what we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, I think thats 
likely to be right. This means Nationwide didnt need to check that the policy was 
suitable for Mr S. But it did need to give him enough information to decide for himself 
whether the cover was right for him.
Mr S has told us he was self-employed as a director a company when he took out the 
loan and PPI. But hes also said he was classed as an employee for PAYE purposes. 
He says if he couldnt work for any reason, hed still have been paid. Ive thought about 
what Mr S has said. But self-employed people could still claim successfully on the 
policy. And the conditions for doing so werent more onerous than they were for 
employed people. And even though Mr S has told us that if he hadnt been able to work 
for any reason, he knew hed still be paid, I think its unlikely he could have been sure 
that hed continue to receive his normal monthly level of pay indefinitely. 
So whether or not Mr S was technically self-employed, I dont think his work situation 
made the policy unsuitable for him. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay that Mr S received. So he could have used 
those to pay for other day-to-day expenses.
Mr S has told us he had savings when he took out the PPI. But Ive borne in mind that 
he chose to protect his savings by taking out a loan. And having the PPI would have 
allowed him to continue to keep his savings or use them to pay for other things if he 
made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment. So 
taking everything into account, I think Mr S could have found the PPI useful.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that I think he chose to take out the PPI - so I think 
its likely he wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now, so 
long after the event. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, Mr S was 
eligible for the policy. And he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things it didnt cover.
I acknowledge that Mr S has told us he had high blood pressure when he took out the 
PPI. But what hes said to us and to Nationwide about when he was first diagnosed with 
this hasnt been fully consistent. And Mr S hasnt been able to provide us with evidence 
of when he was diagnosed. Based on the available evidence, Im not satisfied that I can 
fairly conclude that the condition had been diagnosed before Mr S took the policy out. 
So Im not convinced there was any reason why he wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful claim under the policy if hed needed time off work for the condition.
The loan was repayable in monthly instalments over three years. The premium for the 
PPI was shown clearly on the loan agreement which Mr S signed, along with the interest 
payable on the premium if the loan ran to its full term and the monthly amount payable 
for the PPI. And although the premium for the PPI was added to the loan at the outset, 
the policy provided for a proportionate refund of the PPI premium if the loan was repaid 
early.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mr S would have made a different 
decision about taking the PPI even if hed been given better information about the 
policy. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ive taken account of all Mr Ss comments, including what hes said about Nationwides 
adviser having told him that because he was taking the loan to consolidate existing 
borrowing, he represented a bigger risk, and the loan would only be made if he took PPI. He 
says the adviser pressured him into taking the PPI, telling him it was his only option if he 
wanted the loan. And since he needed the loan to consolidate his other debts, he felt he 
had no option but to take the PPI. Ive thought about what Mr S has said. But pressure is a serious allegation. And I cant fairly 
conclude that Mr S was unfairly pressured into taking the PPI based purely on his 
recollection of a meeting that took place so many years ago. On balance, I think its more 
likely that he knew the PPI was optional, and he decided to take it out because he wanted 
the benefits that it offered. So this doesnt change my conclusion. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman