DRN-3676985
The complaint
Ms C has complained about the poor service she received from Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) when she made a claim under her home insurance policy following 
a fire. 
All reference to the insurer RSA in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Ms C made a claim to her insurer RSA for fire damage to her home in 2019. RSA assigned 
the claim to a third party agent to deal with on RSAs behalf. 
Ms C complained to RSA about the very poor service she received. She was also unhappy 
with the contents settlement part of her claim. 
In August 2022 RSA upheld Ms Cs complaint. It said it could see there had been several 
times when it had failed to progress and update Ms C. It acknowledged it was responsible 
for avoidable delays during the lifetime of the claim and this had caused Ms C distress and 
upset. 
For this it paid Ms C £1,000 compensation. 
RSA said it hadnt settled all of the contents Ms C had claimed for. It agreed to cover the 
remaining items. 
Ms C asked us to look at her complaint. She said the compensation award wasnt enough to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to her since 2019. She said she had been in ill 
health as a result of the handling of the claim and not having contents replaced sooner. 
Ms C said the settlement offered by RSA for a TV wasnt suitable as she couldnt use 
existing accessories with a different model of TV. 
Our Investigator asked RSA to consider Ms Cs reasons for why the settlement offer for the 
TV wasnt adequate. In response, RSA agreed to meet the costs to replace a TV suitable for 
Ms C to use the accessories with. 
Our Investigator thought RSAs compensation award and agreement to settle the final issue 
for the contents claim was enough to resolve to put things right. 
Ms C didnt agree. She says the compensation award isnt enough and wants an 
ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having to deal with a claim, particularly one of a fire or flood inside the home, can cause a 
considerable amount of inconvenience, upheaval and distress. In this case RSA caused 
distress and inconvenience over and above what would be considered expected for this type 
of claim. I can understand that RSA made what was already a difficult time worse for Ms C 
by the poor service and delays it caused. 
Ms Cs bed was returned to her after repairs were done to her home with damage. Ms C 
says living with the bed in this condition has caused her ill health over a prolonged period of 
time. 
The compensation amounts we award for distress and inconvenience are modest. I think the 
amount RSA has offered is in line with an award amount we would recommend where daily 
living has been impacted over a significant period of time, causing substantial distress and 
worry. 
I agree that RSAs handling of the claim has been poor and it hasnt acted reasonably. 
However I think the compensation sum it has paid of £1,000 and its agreement to settle the 
outstanding contents items as Ms C required is enough to put things right in this case. Im 
sorry to disappoint Ms C, but this means Im not asking RSA to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
think RSA has done enough to resolve Ms Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman