DRN-3772068
The complaint
P, a sole trader, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited didnt do enough to defend 
chargebacks of payments and so it is now left with considerable debts.
What happened
P had entered into a merchant services agreement with WorldPay to process card 
payments. P complains about chargebacks of payments for two clients it provided with 
medical services. P received information that there had been a claim of fraudulent card use 
in relation to the first (Client 1), and that the service provided was said to be defective for the 
second (Client 2). P insists it carried out the treatment and provided the records to show this. 
Instead WorldPay told P that it had to repay the money and that if it didnt then it would be 
subject to further charges.
WorldPay said that it hadnt made a mistake. It said that it had to follow a set of rules about 
chargebacks which were set by the relevant card schemes. Card payments arent 
guaranteed, and the risk of chargebacks lay with P. There were heightened potential risks 
too with card not present (CNP) transactions such as these. There had been three different 
cards used for payments for Client 1. WorldPay had attempted to defend the dispute but the 
information had been insufficient, and the card issuers had confirmed the payments as 
fraudulent. It said that in respect of Client 2 no documentation was received to dispute these 
payments. And so, P would need to repay the outstanding amounts due.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She referred to the terms 
and conditions of the agreement:
6.1 Each Chargeback and each Assessment represents a debt immediately due and 
payable by you to us
6.4 In the event that you wish to dispute a Chargeback, it is your responsibility (i) to prove to 
our reasonable satisfaction (which shall, subject to clause 6.5 and without limitation, be 
conditional upon the relevant Card Scheme, Card Issuer, Other Financial Institution, or 
Alternative Payment Provider, as the case may be, confirming it is satisfied) that the debit of 
the Buyer's account was authorised by such Buyer; and (ii) (additionally) to provide us with 
such other evidence as we or any Card Issuer, Other Financial Institution, Alternative 
Payment Provider or Card Scheme may require you to provide in support of your claim. The 
evidence required to be provided will depend on, among other things, the nature of the 
Chargeback, and may vary accordingly. 
6.5 Subject to the Network Rules, neither we nor any Other Financial Institution shall be 
obliged to investigate the validity of any Chargeback or Assessment. You acknowledge and 
agree that any decision or determination of the relevant Card Scheme or Alternative 
Payment Provider as to the validity and extent of any Chargeback and/or Assessment shall 
be final and binding.
She said there had been no documentation provided in relation to Client 2 and so these 
chargebacks couldnt be defended. 
The three payments from Client 1 had been made on different cards. There were file notes 
of the discussion P had with WorldPay about them. And that the payments were CNP ones. 
The information that had been provided about them hadnt been sufficient to establish that 
these were genuine. And so, P was liable for these. 
P didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It said that it had provided the 
service to Client 1 and supplied the relevant records and the report made to Police and 
Action Fraud. P claimed that it had sent similar records for Client 2. And the debt owing had 
been doubled once a debt collector had become involved. P said it had an agreement with 
WorldPay for many years and expected better service. This wasnt professional or ethical 
behaviour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id seen from the documentation that P has said on more than one occasion that it had 
provided documentation to WorldPay to defend the chargebacks for Client 2. While the case 
was being prepared for decision I asked our investigator to request this again and she wrote 
to C on 9 August 2022. Ive not since seen other than those records for Client 1 were sent.
Our investigator set out a key part of the terms and conditions about chargebacks above. 
These relate to an industry scheme and not a legal right. But wed expect chargebacks to be 
defended where there was a basis to. The terms are clear that P is responsible for the 
chargeback and that its not WorldPay that makes the final decision about them.
WorldPay has provided a copy of chargeback letters it sent about Client 2. One related to a 
payment of £3,950 dated 19 September 2020 and the other for £94.81 dated 30 September 
2020. Each gave P 10 days to respond. WorldPay has no record of any response and as I 
say Ive not seen one either. Even if a response had been received in time, this could then 
be a complex issue about how a procedure was performed and not one WorldPay would 
make the decision about.
There were three payments relating to Client 1. A chargeback letter in relation to the first for 
£500 was sent to P dated 8 July 2020. And a further two for payments of £3,000 and £1,500 
sent on 16 July 2020. P did respond to WorldPay and it notes receipt on 22 July 2020. That 
wasnt in the timescale given for the payment of £500 but the others were defended.
I dont doubt from what P has provided that it carried out a procedure for Client 1. The issue 
is whether the cards being used were fraudulently obtained. There were three different card 
numbers and the person(s) holding those cards said each payment was fraudulent. While P 
says that it knew that the names on the cards were those of its client Im not clear how that 
was possible. The payments were processed as CNP ones. If the cardholder had been 
present then they should have been processed in a different way. The information is that full 
3D secure verification was not used. And the records P provided dont show a link between 
these cards and Client 1  that would need to be by inference- and WorldPay says it isnt 
given the cardholder names. It is also clear that the information about the latter two of these 
payments was sent as part of the chargeback defence. And the issuing banks involved didnt 
accept that these were from the genuine cardholder. 
There are specific risks with CNP transactions and even if payments are initially authorised 
this is no guarantee of payment. Im afraid I dont think WorldPay could reasonably do 
anything more. Its records show it discussed this with P and explained the position. Ive seen a breakdown of the amount WorldPay says P owes it. And thats before any fees 
for debt collectors. It seems that P received the settlement of payments for Clients 1 and 2. It 
then owed this money back to WorldPay when it was charged back. But it seems also had a 
temporary credit of the amounts of £1,500 and £3,000 before it had done so. WorldPay says 
P had cancelled its direct debit and also owes invoice fees for the period until January 2021 
when the account was closed.
I appreciate that P expected WorldPay to protect it from fraud and also from unfounded 
claims about its services. And that its position is that it is subject to the loss of a significant 
amount of money having provided those services in good faith. Unfortunately, as set out in 
the terms and conditions the responsibility for any chargeback is Ps. There are rules about 
how these can be defended, and the timescales involved. And that relies on evidence and 
how this is interpreted by the card scheme and not here WorldPay. So, while I understand 
Ps position I dont have a basis to say that WorldPay has made a mistake or acted 
unreasonably. P will fairly need to discuss repayment of the amounts outstanding with it or 
its agents. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman