DRN-3453763
The complaint
Mr M complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance (UKI) unfairly 
declined his request under a mileage moneyback scheme. 
What happened
Mr M submitted a request under the mileage moneyback scheme attached to his motor 
insurance policy. The scheme was designed to give policyholders some money back if they 
drove less than expected within a policy year. The scheme had its own terms and conditions. 
UKI declined Mr Ms request under the scheme as they say he made the request too late. Mr 
M wasnt happy with this and complained. He didnt think the scheme terms were clearly 
highlighted to him in respect of the time limit he had to submit a request. 
UKI responded maintaining their position but offered Mr M £15 compensation for the call 
waiting times. Mr M didnt think hed been treated fairly, so he approached our service. 
An investigator here considered things but felt UKI had treated Mr M fairly. Mr M didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsman to decide, and the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme was set up outside Mr Ms contract of insurance and had its own terms and 
conditions. Ive also followed the information Mr M provided which he thinks demonstrates 
the terms regarding when to submit a request were unclear and not clearly highlighted. And, 
whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I dont think these were unclear. 
The document Mr M provided clearly highlights how the scheme works, a link to find the 
terms and conditions applicable to it, and states that once the renewal invitation is received 
(30 days before the policy end date) a policyholder can then submit their mileage reading. 
And Im satisfied it makes clear a policyholder has up to seven days after the policy year 
comes to an end to submit the request. 
I appreciate why Mr M thinks this should have been made clearer to him, but I find this is 
clear and havent been satisfied UKI treated him unfairly. Mr M was a few weeks late in 
submitting his request, and even if he had submitted the request on day eight, as an 
example, Id still expect UKI to treat him in the same way they have here. This scheme didnt 
form part of Mr Ms contract of insurance with UKI, so I wouldnt expect them to have 
highlighted these terms differently in the way Mr M thinks they should have.  
Mr M says he changed positions at work on or around the time his policy year ended. Its 
reasonable to say Mr M would have been occupied with this, but I dont think this is sufficient 
ground to require UKI to act outside the scheme terms and accept the request. 
Ive also looked at the way things were handled and have seen UKI paid Mr M £15 for call 
time lengths which I find to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate to the complaint. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve his dispute with UKI  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman