DRN-3240568
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M are unhappy Scottish Widows Limited has reduced the sum assured on 
their policies following a critical illness claim. 
Mr M has brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, so for ease Ive referred to 
him throughout the decision. 
What happened
In 2002 Mr M took out a mortgage term assurance policy with critical illness cover which had 
a sum assured of £88,350. And in February 2003 he took out a life insurance policy with a 
sum assured of £144,809. 
Sadly, Mr M suffered a heart attack in September 2020 and a critical illness claim was made 
under the term assurance policy in November 2020. Scottish Widows considered the claim 
but felt Mr M hadnt answered the following question correctly when he applied for the 
policies;
Q. In the last 12 months have you used any tobacco products? 
A; No.
This was because when Scottish Widows considered the claim it says Mr M told it he was an 
ex-smoker and thought both of his policies had already had smoker rates applied to them.  
As a result, Scottish Widows reduced the value of Mr Ms critical illness policy from £88,350 
to £50,572 and a further reduction was made from September 2020 to £29,427 because his 
cover was decreasing. Scottish Widows also reduced his life insurance policy to £65,756. 
Mr M was unhappy with this decision, so he made a complaint. Scottish Widows considered 
the complaint but upheld the decision its claim team made. But it did offer £350 for the 
delays it caused when considering Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He said 
Scottish Widows had treated him unfairly and had breached his data when it didnt provide 
copies of his medical records when he requested them. 
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he was satisfied Mr M 
had told Scottish Widows during the claim that he was an ex-smoker and that Mr M had 
mentioned in a later application in 2005 he had smoked twelve months before applying for 
that policy and there were references to smoking in 2003 and 2004. The investigator said Mr 
M hadnt raised a complaint to Scottish Widows about a potential breach of his data. But that 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) would be better suited to consider that point. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he wasnt smoking twelve 
months prior to taking out the policies. He said when Scottish Widows spoke to him following 
his heart attack about his smoking history, he tried his best to recall when he was smoking, 
but he shouldnt be expected to recall all the dates from such a long time ago. He said it took 
too long for Scottish Widows to query the answers he gave when he applied for the policy, 
and that it wasnt fair that the reductions were made to the policy at a time when he needed 
the money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
As the policies were sold in 2002 and 2003, Ive considered the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI) Code on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly (the Code). 
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Mr M made a misrepresentation when     
taking out these policies and if so, whether Scottish Widows has shown it wouldnt have 
offered them at all or wouldve done on different terms.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Ive carefully considered all the evidence here. Having done so, Im satisfied  on balance  
that Mr M didnt answer the question about smoking correctly when he applied for the 
policies. 
Mr M has said that when he made the critical illness claim he thought Scottish Widows were 
asking him if he had smoked before the claim. He said hed just had a heart attack, so it was 
understandable that he might not have been able to recollect when he had started smoking 
and periods when he wasnt. 
Ive reviewed the claim notes and Ive seen that when Mr M made the critical illness claim in 
November 2020 he told Scottish Widows that he thought smokers rates had been added to 
the policy because his premium was more expensive than his wifes. When he spoke to 
Scottish Widows later on in the claim, he told it that he had smoked for a very long time but 
then said he started smoking in 2013. Scottish Widows then told Mr M it had an application 
from 2005 where Mr M had said he was smoking ten cigarettes a day and that Mr M recalled 
smoking in 2004.
Its difficult for me to be certain if Mr M was smoking in the twelve months before he applied 
for these policies. Thats because Mr Ms testimony has been inconsistent when discussing 
his smoking history with Scottish Widows. But having considered that Mr M told Scottish 
Widows in 2005, that he confirmed he was smoking in 2004 and that he thought the critical 
illness policy already had smoker rates applied to it when he made the claim, Im satisfied on 
balance, Mr M was more likely than not smoking when he took out the policies. That means, I believe he shouldve answered the question differently in relation to smoking 
when he applied for his policies. So, I think its fair that Scottish Widows said he failed to 
take reasonable care when answering the question.
Was it fair for Scottish Widows to add smoker rates and reduce Mr Ms sum assured? 
Scottish Widows has said Mr Ms misrepresentation should be classed as careless. Ive 
considered this carefully. Having done so, I agree that Mr M was careless when completing 
his applications. Guidance issued by the ABI says that to classify a misrepresentation as 
careless, it needs to be shown that Mr M didnt take reasonable care and this can include 
anything from an understandable oversight, or an inadvertent mistaken, to serious 
negligence. So, I believe Scottish Widows has correctly said Mr M was careless here.  
Scottish Widows has provided evidence from its underwriter that if Mr M had told it he was 
smoking it wouldve charged him a higher premium. I note Mr M said Scottish Widows is only 
now asking for his smoking history when this shouldve been requested when he applied. 
But under the Code Scottish Widows is entitled to reduce the sum assured on both Mr Ms 
policies where its satisfied a misrepresentation has taken place. And having seen the 
calculations from the underwriter, Im satisfied its fairly made reductions to both Mr Ms 
policies.
Scottish Widows handling of the claim
Scottish Widows has offered Mr M £350 for the delay it caused when he appealed its claim 
decision. Its said this appeal shouldve been assessed quicker and its paid that money into 
Mr Ms account. 
I can understand why Mr M was frustrated by the length of time the claim took to be 
resolved. So, Ive reviewed the timeline of the claim. Claims such as Mr Ms can take some 
time to review and process due to various bits of information needing to be requested from 
different medical professionals. I note in this case there were delays in waiting for the 
medical information from some of the medical professionals. But that Scottish Widows did 
cause a delay when it was reassessing the claim. Having considered the delay and the way 
this matter was handled, the offer of £350 seems reasonable to me and in line with what Id 
expect in similar cases. And if Mr M believes his data was breached by Scottish Widows 
then he should raise this with the ICO. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman