DRN-2931153
The complaint
Ms S complains that Paypal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA didnt refund her for a payment she 
made.
What happened
Ms S made a claim via Paypals buyer protection policy after being unhappy with the quality 
of an item she purchased online. Paypal asked Ms S to return the item to the seller, which 
she did so via recorded delivery. But the item didnt reach the seller, so Paypal declined the 
claim.
Ms S complained but Paypal didnt change its mind  so Ms S asked this service to review 
the matter. Paypal refers to its terms and says it cant refund Ms S given theres no proof the 
item arrived back with the seller. But Ms S says shes provided proof the item was sent, so 
this should be enough for Paypal to agree the refund.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed that Paypal had applied its terms 
fairly. Ms S didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For similar reasons as our investigator, Im not upholding this complaint. I know Ms S will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Paypals buyer protection policy explains that Ms S may claim a refund if the item she 
received is significantly not as described. Ms S says the item she ordered arrived 
damaged, so the policy is relevant here. Paypals buyer protection policy also sets out that 
Ms S may be required to return the item to the seller and that Paypal has sole discretion to 
determine whether a claim is eligible.
Ms S says she sent the item back and has provided proof of postage which includes a 
tracking number. However, to date the item hasnt arrived at the sellers address. Its unclear 
why the item seems to be stuck in transit, but I cant say that Paypal acted unfairly given the 
item hasnt been delivered to the seller.
Paypals terms require Ms S to provide proof of delivery  unfortunately, the proof of postage 
Ms S has provided doesnt confirm the item has been delivered back to the seller. I note 
Ms S comments that what happened after she posted the item is beyond her control. But I 
dont think its fair to oblige Paypal to refund what Ms S paid for the item if the terms havent 
been met. Paypal isnt responsible for the return of the item or its transit once the item has 
been posted. So it wouldnt be fair to ask it to refund Ms S if it has nothing to do with what 
may have gone wrong.
Im satisfied that Paypal took reasonable steps to help Ms S. Paypal says it extended the 
claim period to allow more time for the item to arrive at the sellers address. Its unfortunate 
that delivery didnt take place before Paypal decided to close the claim. But I think it acted 
fairly by allowing more time in the first instance.
Ms S says she paid to insure the return of the item based on Paypals advice  so now shes 
out of pocket. Ms S also says she received £70 from the courier because the item wasnt 
delivered to the seller. Although I havent seen details of the advice that Ms S says she was 
given, I dont think it was unreasonable advice, given the value of her purchase. And it 
seems purchasing cover for the return postage allowed Ms S to claim back some of what 
shes lost out on. So I dont think the advice Ms S says she received has left her more out of 
pocket. 
I empathise with Ms S situation. But my role is to determine whether Paypal treated her 
fairly  I think Paypal has fairly applied its terms here, so I wont be asking it to do anything 
differently in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman