The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank PLC has done to put things right following his 
complaint about the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In November 2018 Mr L contacted Lloyds to complain about PPI alongside two credit cards. 
Lloyds investigated Mr L's complaint. It said Mr L didn't have PPI on one of the cards. But it 
said the complaint about the PPI alongside the other card should be upheld. It said it would 
send Mr L a cheque for £3,929.07.
But when Mr L didn't receive the cheque, he chased Lloyds. Lloyds said the letter Mr L had 
received was sent by mistake. It said Mr L had made a successful claim on the policy. It says 
the amount Mr L received when made this claim was more than the extra he'd paid for for 
the PPI. It deducted this amount from its offer - and this means Mr L gets nothing.
Mr L says that following the original offer of compensation he booked a holiday and ordered 
a new bed. He thinks he should be paid the original offer. He also thinks he should get 
compensation for the distress and upset Lloyds has caused.
After the complaint was referred to our service, Lloyds offered to pay Mr L £100 for the 
trouble and upset it caused. Our adjudicator looked at this offer. The adjudicator said it was 
fair for Lloyds to deduct the successful claim from the compensation it offered - and also 
thought that the £100 Lloyds had offered was fair.
Mr L doesn't think this is enough.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has agreed that Mr L's complaint about the sale of PPI should be upheld, so in this 
decision I'm looking at whether what it has offered is fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, I'd expect any compensation to put the consumer as far as possible in the financial 
position they'd be in if the PPI hadn't been sold.
Lloyds has sent us calculations showing how it worked out Mr L's compensation. The PPI 
was charged to his card account each month, and Mr L had to repay this extra amount, with 
interest, in line with the terms and conditions of the card. Lloyds's records show that Mr L 
DRN-1046099was charged £1,711.93 in PPI premiums, and was charged an extra £522.53 in interest 
because of this. So in total, Mr L had to pay an extra £2,234.46 to his card because of the 
PPI. But this is a lot less than the amount Mr L got when he claimed on the policy - Lloyds 
says the claim was £6,358.33. If he hadn't bought the policy, he couldn't have made this 
claim. For this reason, I think it's fair for Lloyds to deduct the amount Mr L got when he 
claimed on the policy from any compensation due. This is also something that's allowed by 
the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority, which I've taken into account in reaching 
this decision. As Mr L got more out of the policy in benefits than he paid for it, this means 
Mr L now gets nothing.
But I have gone on to consider whether Lloyds should pay Mr L for the trouble and upset it 
caused. Lloyds has told us that when it originally worked out Mr L's compensation, it didn't 
take the claim into account. It says it carried out a second calculation including the claim - 
but sent Mr L a letter that reflected its original calculation.
Mr L has told us that, following receipt of this offer, he booked a holiday and bought a new 
bed. I recognise that Mr L has since been able to cancel these purchases without a penalty 
or fee. But I also recognise that this must have been very disappointing. It also appears that, 
because of the mix-up with the calculations, Lloyds initially told Mr L it had no records of the 
letter he'd received offering a compensation payment - I see he had to send Lloyds a copy of 
this letter and it took until March to sort things out.
That said, where I make an award for trouble and upset this isn't designed to punish the 
business but to reflect the impact its actions had on Mr L. I think that Lloyds gave Mr L an 
expectation that he'd receive this money. But for the reasons I've explained, I think the way 
Lloyds has now worked out Mr L's offer is fair. In the circumstances, bearing in mind that 
Mr L hasn't lost out because of Lloyds's mistake, I think the £100 it has offered is fair 
compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. I make no further award.
Putting things right
For the reasons above, I think it's fair for Lloyds to deduct the value of the successful claim 
from the refund of what Mr L paid for the PPI.
Lloyds's offer to pay Mr L £100 for the trouble and upset it caused is fair. I understand that 
Lloyds has already issued this to Mr L by cheque. If the cheque has expired uncashed, 
Lloyds should send Mr L a new one.
I make no further award.
My final decision
Mr L's complaint about the PPI has been upheld. Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right by 
doing what I've said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman