DRN-2458015
The complaint
Miss G complains she was mis-sold life insurance by National Westminster Bank Plc. 
In short, she says: 
She was pressured into taking out life insurance alongside her loans. 
She had no family so did not need life insurance. 
She is being assisted by Mr W. 
What happened
Miss G says that she was led to believe that life cover was a condition of her borrowing in 
2008 and 2010 when she took out loans with Nat West.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
In October 2008 and November 2010 Miss G signed declarations confirming these 
policies were sold on a non-advised basis.  
As no advice was given, shes unable to investigate the suitability of the life cover 
and or determine whether the policy was mis-sold. 
That notwithstanding, shes seen nothing to say that the life cover was a condition of 
the loans, or that Miss G had no choice but to take out life cover. 
Despite what Miss G says about her language issues, there were no issues with the 
loans she took out and dealt with on her own at the bank. 
In the circumstances, the responsibility was on Miss G to ensure that the life cover 
was suitable for her needs.   
Miss G disagreed with the investigators view. In short, Mr W said:
The outcome is unfair. 
Miss G didnt speak English sufficiently well to give consent to the life policies.
Her signature on the documentation doesnt mean this wasnt a mis-sale.
She has provided testimony that she was pressured into these sales.  
Nothing Nat West has said contradicts her account.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In short, she said:
Nat West has shown that the policies were sold without advice. 
It was for Miss G to ensure that the policies matched her needs.
Despite what Mr W says theres no evidence that she was pressured into taking the 
policies. 
She had a cooling-off period within which to cancel her policy if it wasnt what she 
wanted.
Miss G disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Mr W, on her behalf, said:
I can understand that this is not enough evidence to pursue this - especially as NatWest is 
not being asked to investigate or present evidence.
However, I cannot possibly see how a piece of paper signed by someone under duress in
language they didn't understand serves to confirm that they were happy with the 
arrangement. That is a very flawed conclusion.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr W says Im unable to safely 
say that Nat West has acted unreasonably.  
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Miss Gs 
strength of feeling about this matter. With the help of Mr W, shes provided detailed 
submissions to support this complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Miss G and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss G says, Im unable to safely 
say that the life cover policies werent taken out on a direct basis. In other words, despite 
what Miss G says, I cant safely say they were sold with financial advice. 
I note that the plans arent generally considered to be complicated and its not unlikely that 
Miss G, despite any language issues, wouldnt have taken out the plans without advice. Im 
mindful that she went to Nat West  on both occasions without anyone to assist her  to take 
out the loans. This doesnt suggest that her command of English was such that she didnt 
know what was going on. On the contrary, it suggests that she had a reasonable command 
of English to deal with these matters herself. 
I appreciate Mr W says that Miss G didnt go to Nat West for life cover, but for her loans, and 
that she might not have been aware of the life cover available. But I also note that Nat West 
accepts that it provided her with information about the different life policies it had and that it 
was up to Miss G to decide how she wished to proceed. I dont think that providing information about a product  that she probably didnt know about 
in 2008 but did by 2010  is evidence that advice was given and or that duress/pressure 
was applied. On balance I think its more likely than not Miss G bought the policies of her 
own volition, and as a result, Im unable to consider the suitability of the policies. 
Im mindful that Miss G completed the loan declarations in English but signed her complaint 
letter in a different language which I assume is her native language. But on balance I dont 
think her language issues are such that she could only communicate in her native language. 
I think its unlikely she wouldve gone to Nat West for a loan  on her own  if that was the 
case. So, I believe the onus was on her to make sure the life policies were suitable for her 
circumstances. 
I note Nat West says Miss G cancelled the 2010 policy days later  within the cancellation 
period  on 08 November 2007  I think the date should read 08 November 2010. 
So, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, she wouldve known, or ought reasonably 
to have known, that life cover wasnt a condition of her borrowing when she cancelled the 
policy in 2010. It would therefore follow that shed have no reason to continue with the 2008 
policy until she stopped paying the premiums in 2019  unless of course, she wanted to 
continue with that policy. 
Im aware that mis-selling can take place based on the nature of advertising and the 
representations contained within. But in this instance, Im satisfied the documentation 
supplied to Miss G, before she wouldve accepted the life cover policies, was clear, fair and 
not misleading. Ive seen nothing to suggest that she was advised to take out the plans or 
that she couldnt have the loans without cover.
In the circumstances, I also must consider any documentary evidence available from the 
point of sale. And having done so I note Miss G signed a declaration on the application form 
 in 2008 and 2010  confirming this was a non-advised sale, in the following terms:
oI acknowledge that the personal illustration has been prepared on the basis 
requested by me. I also confirm that I have not received financial advice from 
National Westminster Life Assurance or from any company within The Royal 
Bank of Scotland group of companies.
I appreciate this doesnt if itself mean the policies were suitable. It just means that Im unable 
to look into the suitability of the policies.  
Whilst I appreciate Miss Gs frustration, Im unable to ask Nat West to do anything because I 
dont think it has done anything wrong. In conclusion, on balance Im satisfied these were 
non-advised sales, and sufficient documentation was provided to make clear the nature and 
operation of the policies. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman