DRN-3897928
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim for storm 
damage.
Mr and Mrs R held joint buildings and contents cover with UKI. Because Mrs R brought the 
complaint, Ill refer mainly to her.
What happened
In brief, Mrs R claimed under her home insurance policy after her roof was damaged during 
a storm. Initially, UKI accepted the claim, but then declined it. Mrs R complained to UKI 
about its delays handling her claim, and its decision to decline. 
On considering the complaint, UKI agreed it had declined the claim prematurely because the 
survey didnt support its reason for the decline. UKI offered £150 by way of apology for the 
service shortfalls Mrs R experienced in its handling of her claim.
UKI then went on to decline again under the policy exclusion of poor workmanship, so Mrs R 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Rs complaint in part. He said the evidence supported UKIs 
eventual decision to decline for poor workmanship, but he didnt think its offer of £150 
adequately compensated for the service shortfalls. Our investigator proposed an additional 
£150, bringing the total compensation to £300.
Mrs R didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint in part. This means Im satisfied 
that the reasons UKI gave for declining her claim were fair and in line with the policy, but I 
dont think it handled her claim as well as it couldve done. Ill explain.
Storm damage
Theres no dispute that Mrs Rs roof was damaged during a storm, or that the type of 
damage she suffered is typical of that caused by a storm. The issue is whether the damage 
was wholly or mainly caused by the storm.
Looking at UKIs final position, it declined Mrs Rs claim because it thought that poor 
workmanship was the main cause of damage. The policy doesnt provide cover for damage 
resulting from poor workmanship.
The evidence UKI relied on to reach its decision includes a surveyors report, photos of the 
roof, and a statement from the roofer who carried out the repairs.
Mrs R provided confirmation of her roof replacement three years earlier, her neighbours 
experience of a claim for the same type of damage, and her own experience of UKIs 
handling of her claim. 
While I can understand Mrs Rs frustration on seeing her neighbours roof damage repaired 
and paid for so quickly, it wouldnt be fair for me to draw comparisons. I can only consider 
UKIs actions in respect of Mrs Rs claim, and for which Ive seen evidence. 
Mrs R thinks her roof was damaged by the storm because it was a relatively new roof and 
the flat roof felt lifted during a storm. But UKI declined her claim because, on inspection, it 
identified that the felt on the flat roof hadnt been properly attached to the tiled, pitched roof. 
The photos supplied as evidence support its opinion, showing a lack of fixings and uneven 
edges.
The roofer who repaired the damage couldnt be sure whether it was poor workmanship or 
the storm that caused the damage. He commented that the roof hadnt been cleared of old 
covering before laying the new felt, and there was a lack of suitable fixings. So, there was 
clear evidence of poor workmanship, but the roofer couldnt determine whether the storm 
was the more significant contributory factor. In the absence of a clear and differing view to 
that of UKIs survey, I have no reason to doubt that the main cause of damage was the poor 
workmanship.
In summary, the evidence suggests that the main reason the storm lifted the felt roof was 
because of pre-existing poor workmanship. Had the roof been installed properly, its unlikely 
the storm wouldve caused any damage.
Mrs R pointed out that she paid a professional to replace her roof and she trusted that it 
wouldve been done properly. So, she didnt think it was fair that her claim was declined for 
poor workmanship. I accept that she might not have known whether the work was of a 
suitable standard, but Mrs R hasnt provided any evidence which persuades me the work 
definitely was done properly. UKI can reasonably expect that if Mrs R has work done to her 
home, it will be done properly. So, I cant fairly hold it liable for repair costs which have more 
likely arisen because of the poor standard of work completed by Mrs Rs roofer.
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied that UKI fairly declined Mrs Rs claim for her roof.
Ceiling
UKI accepted Mrs Rs claim for her ceiling damage which was caused by water ingress 
through the damaged roof. This part of her claim was settled under the separate accidental 
damage section of her policy and isnt disputed.Claim handling 
The damage happened to Mrs Rs roof in November 2021. A surveyor visited around two 
weeks later, but nothing more happened until towards the end of March. During that time, 
Mrs Rs home suffered further water damage. UKI eventually declined Mrs Rs claim in July 
2022.
While Ive agreed that it was fair for UKI to decline the claim, for a substantial period of time 
Mrs R believed her claim was either accepted or being considered. UKIs notes reflect its 
own uncertainty about the status of Mrs Rs claim, so I can accept what she says about the 
distress this situation caused to her and her family.
However, Mrs R doesnt think that £150 is enough. She pointed out that the condition of her 
home got worse during further storms over the months that followed the original damage. 
Had UKI given a prompt and accurate response to her claim, she may have been able to 
prevent that further damage. 
I certainly dont disagree with what Mrs R said here about the internal damage getting worse. 
UKI covered the cost of repairs under her policy, but I accept that it wouldve been a 
distressing time for Mrs R. However, having considered UKIs offer of compensation, along 
with the further amount proposed by our investigator, I cant see any evidence which 
persuades me that a further increase is warranted. To be clear, the compensation is to 
address the distress and inconvenience caused  it is not intended to contribute towards any 
of the repair costs not covered by the policy.
Im satisfied that total compensation of £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and U K 
Insurance Limited must:
pay Mrs and Mr R £150 compensation in addition to the £150 already paid, bringing 
the total payment to £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman