DRN-1655090
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited allowed him to discuss details of his credit card 
account without correctly passing the data protection questions. So, he doesnt think its fair 
that theyve continued to add charges to that account for his failure to pay his minimum 
payment.
What happened
On 1 August 2019, Mr S called Vanquis to discuss his credit card account. Mr S deliberately 
provided the incorrect date of birth to see whether Vanquis would continue to discuss his 
account. 
Vanquis didnt identify the correct date of birth he provided and allowed him to pass the data 
protection questions. Mr S complained about this, saying he didnt feel his account 
information was safe with Vanquis. So, he didnt think he should be required to pay the 
remaining balance and was unhappy that he was being charged for not making his required 
minimum payment. He was also unhappy that this was reported on his credit file.
Vanquis upheld Mr Ss complaint. They agreed theyd made an error when accepting the 
incorrect date of birth and offered a payment of £100 to recognise the upset this wouldve 
caused. But they thought theyd added charges to Mr Ss account fairly when he didnt make 
his monthly minimum payment. Mr S wasnt happy with this response and maintained he 
thought the remaining balance should be waived. So, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She agreed that Vanquis had 
made a mistake but thought the £100 they offered in recognition was a fair one. She 
explained that Mr S still had a duty to maintain his account, so Vanquis acted reasonably 
when adding interest and charges and reporting to his credit file.
 Mr S was unhappy with this view. He explained he no longer trusted Vanquis and that if it 
hadnt been him trying to discuss his complaint, it couldve left him in serious financial 
difficulty. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Its not in dispute that Vanquis made an error when they failed to identify that Mr S had 
provided an incorrect date of birth. So, Ive focused on the impact this had on Mr S and what 
I think should be done to recognise this.
Ive no doubt that Mr S has been left upset by his ability to discuss his account after 
purposely providing the incorrect date of birth. He did this to test the security of Vanquis and hes been let down by the outcome. So, I think he should be compensated for the upset and 
worry he felt following the error.
But Im unable to compensate Mr S for what may have happened, only what actually did. Mr 
S is unhappy that if that call had been made by someone genuinely trying to defraud his 
account, he wouldve been affected financially. So, he thinks his outstanding balance should 
be waived and the account closed to recognise the risk his account suffered. 
While I understand Mr Ss point of view, factually this didnt happen. It was Mr S who called 
Vanquis and passed the security questions incorrectly. So, Mr Ss account wasnt at risk on 
the call and the error didnt impact him financially. So, it wouldnt fair for me to consider any 
financial impact when considering what compensation would be fair.
Because of this, I think the £100 payment Vanquis offered reasonably recognises the upset 
and worry Mr S experienced and I dont think they need to offer anything more. 
Mr S has also explained he stopped making his minimum payments as he lost trust in 
Vanquis and felt their error meant the outstanding balance should no longer be in place. So, 
he didnt think Vanquis acted fairly by adding charges and interest on the account and 
reporting this information to credit reference agencies. 
While I understand Mr Ss unhappiness with Vanquis, I dont think the error impacted Mr Ss 
responsibility to maintain his account. Mr S benefited from the use of the credit card account, 
so it was Mr Ss responsibility to make the minimum payment that was due. I think Mr S 
wouldve been aware of the implications hed face if he didnt pay the amount and hes 
confirmed it was his own decision to miss it. So, I think Vanquis have acted reasonably when 
adding the associated interest and charges to the account.
Vanquis also have an obligation to report the way Mr S managed his account on his credit 
file. So, I cant say theyve done anything wrong when they reported a missed payment as 
this was a true reflection of Mr Ss account at that time.
Mr S has also recently explained that hes experiencing financial difficulty due to his personal 
circumstances and the additional interest and charges are making things worse. He wanted 
this to be factored in to any decision I made, and any compensation I directed. But, while Im 
sorry to hear about Mr Ss personal situation, I cant agree that Vanquis has acted unfairly in 
their actions after Mr S chose to not to make his minimum payment. So, I dont think they 
need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman