DRN-3144075
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank unfairly registered 
a late payment on his credit file.
What happened
Mr B says his Tesco credit card account was set up for a minimum direct debit payment to 
be taken each month. He says he changed that amount in early February 2021 so that the 
full amount would be taken each month but noticed on 27 February 2021 that the payment 
hadnt been taken. Mr B says he made the required payment and Tesco refunded the late 
payment fee, but it reported the late payment to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). He 
says that decision was unfair and will affect a mortgage application. Mr B would like the 
adverse information removed from his credit file.
Tesco says it sent Mr B his account statement in January 2021 telling him a payment 
needed to be made by 14 February 2021. It says it makes clear when a direct debit is 
amended that a change may result in a payment not being made that month and that 
customers should consider making a faster payment or manual payment. Tesco says the 
direct debit was amended on 7 February 2021 and it wrote to Mr B on 19 February 2021 
telling him there was a missed payment. It says it is obliged to provide accurate information 
the CRAs and hasnt made a mistake here.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
Tesco told Mr B when he amended the direct debit that the change could result in a payment 
not being taken that month. But the investigator thought it wasnt fair and reasonable to 
register the late payment in these circumstances and when Mr B received a statement telling 
him the payment would be taken on 14 February 2021. The investigator thought Mr B may 
not have received Tescos missed payment letter and recommended it remove the adverse 
information.
Tesco doesnt accept that view and says it has a duty to provide accurate information to the 
CRAs and says it told Mr B what he needed to do to make a payment.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I didnt uphold it. I appreciated 
Mr B would be disappointed by my view.
I looked carefully at Tescos records and the account statements as well as what Mr B would 
have seen when the direct debit was amended. The January 2021 statement is dated 20 
January 2021 and told Mr B he needed to make a payment by 14 February 2021. I was 
satisfied that Mr B would have either received that statement or had access to it shortly after 
that date- 20 January 2021. I said there was no dispute here that on 7 February 2021 Mr B 
changed the direct debit amount. So, I appreciated Mr B says he received a statement telling 
him a payment would be taken on 14 February 2021 after he amended the direct debit 
amount. But having looked at Tescos records and the statements dates, I found that the 
statement was sent some time before the direct debit amendment. So, I didnt think Mr B 
would have been misled into thinking that Tesco would take the direct debit on 14 February 
2021 in circumstances where he amended the direct debit after the statement was 
generated.
I also looked at the screenshot of what Mr B would have seen when he amended the direct 
debit. I was satisfied Tesco made clear that by amending the direct debit a payment may not 
be taken and that customers should consider alternative payment methods such as a faster 
payment. So, I was satisfied Tesco made clear to Mr B that a direct debit may not be taken 
and in those circumstances, as Mr B is responsible for the account management, he ought 
reasonably to have checked and monitored the position.
I was satisfied that Tesco also wrote to Mr B on 19 February 2021 some eight days before 
he called it about this issue. I accepted it is not clear when and if Mr B received that letter, 
but I have made clear I think Tesco gave Mr B sufficient warning when the direct debit was 
amended. 
I thought it likely that Mr B would have received his February 2021 account statement on or 
around 20 February 2021. That statement dated 20 February 2021 made clear there was a 
missed payment. I thought Mr B could have made a payment shortly after receiving that 
statement which may have avoided the outcome here.
I accepted Tesco has a regulatory duty to provide the CRAs accurate information about its 
customers accounts. I was satisfied that Tesco gave Mr B sufficient warning about changing 
the direct debit and told him in letter and by statement there was a missed payment. In those 
circumstances I didnt think Tesco made a mistake or acted unfairly by reporting the late 
payment to the CRAs.
Mr B has replied to my provisional view and in summary says the changes to his wifes 
account went through and that he shouldnt be punished for being a loyal Tescos 
customers. He says he thought our role was to apply common sense and order the adverse 
marker be removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
I cant fairly comment on why Mr Bs wifes account changes were made and his were not, 
but I have made clear that Tesco warned him that he ought to check the payment as such 
changes would affect the direct debit collection. I appreciate Mr B says our role is to apply 
common sense to the situation, but our role is to look at a complaint independently and we 
do not act on the side of either party. And I think that Tesco gave Mr B warning about the 
direct debit change and didnt mislead him about the date it would be taken. I also think that 
Tesco told Mr B by letter and in the statement that a payment had been missed which would 
have given him sufficient time to avoid the adverse information being registered on his credit 
file.
It is not our role to comment on if a customer is loyal and such matters are for, as here, 
Tesco to consider.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman