DRN-3835652
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund her after she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Miss H was tricked into making two card payments, totalling £1,600, to buy gift cards. Miss H 
told us that in April 2022 she began work with a new employer. On her first day of working 
from home she was contacted by someone she believed to be her boss asking her to 
purchase some gift cards. He explained that he would reimburse her when he was out of his 
meetings. But unknown to Miss H at the time, the messages were from a scammer 
impersonating her boss.
On 27 April 2022, Miss H visited a well-known supermarket and purchased £800 worth of gift 
cards using her Monzo debit card. After Miss H had purchased the vouchers, she was asked 
to scratch the back of the cards and provide the scammer with the unique voucher codes. 
She was also asked to provide copies of her receipts, so she could be reimbursed.
After Miss H had passed over the unique voucher codes, the scammer asked her to go back 
and buy more gift cards. Still thinking she was communicating with her boss, Miss H 
explained she didnt have any funds with which to purchase any more gift cards. But 
eventually she was persuaded by the scammer to borrow money from her partner, and so 
proceeded with a second purchase for £800. Miss H was again asked to provide the unique 
reference numbers to the scammers. Miss H was tricked into making a third purchase  but 
using her other bank account  so this transaction is not subject of this complaint. Miss H 
later realised this was a scam when she got a call from a colleague at work.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She felt that the transactions werent unusual 
or large enough to have triggered Monzos fraud detection systems. She also felt that Monzo 
didnt have to raise a chargeback in this situation as Miss H received the goods she paid for. 
She also didnt feel that Monzo had failed in its service to Miss H.
Miss H did not agree. She considers two £800 transactions within the same hour unusual. 
Other than the two recent transactions for £500, she had never made a transaction of more 
than £100 - £200 in a day. She feels Monzo should have done more to question the 
payments. Miss H explained that £1,600 is a very large sum of money to her personally. In 
terms of Monzos customer service  she couldnt get through to anyone to speak to  only 
in writing through their chat service. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss H, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Monzos actions, I dont think it did act unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the 
transactions to be made from Miss Hs account. So, having considered everything, Im not 
going to uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Miss H, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
Monzo should reimburse her with the money she unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill 
explain why. 
Monzo can only hold Miss H liable for the payments if the evidence suggests its more likely 
than not that she made or authorised them herself.  Here, it is not in dispute Miss H 
authorised the payments, indeed she says herself she did. So even though Miss H was 
tricked, I cant fairly say she didnt authorise the transactions. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
But banks, such as Monzo, have obligations to be alert to instances of fraud. This means 
that there may be circumstances where a firm should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Monzo ought to have identified Miss H might have 
been at risk of financial harm when she purchased the gift cards and whether it should have 
done more than it did. 
Ive first thought about whether the payments Miss H made were out of character and 
unusual. Having reviewed Miss Hs statements for the six months leading up to the scam, I 
dont think the payments were so unusual or suspicious in comparison to Miss Hs normal 
account activity that it ought to have alerted Monzo that Miss H may have been at risk of 
financial harm. While £800 (and £1,600 in one day) was the largest payment Miss H had 
made, there are transactions over £100 and some over £500. Theres a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and ensuring minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments  bearing in mind one-off needs sometimes arise. It was a 
payment to a well-known supermarket and Miss H had made payments to it before. It seems 
to me that there was no reason why the payment wouldnt have seemed genuine and I dont 
consider the bank missed a clear opportunity to identify a potential scam risk. 
So, I dont think Monzo acted unreasonably in not making enquiries about the transactions 
before processing them.
I am sorry that Miss H has been tricked into making payments, and I appreciate this is a lot 
of money for her to have lost. I also understand the whole experience was very frustrating 
and upsetting for her. But in the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
order Monzo to refund Miss H the money she has lost.
For completeness, I will add that banks dont have to raise chargebacks if it looks clear that 
the cardholder would lose. Here, Im satisfied thats the case because Miss H received the 
service she paid for  albeit she was tricked into doing so. So, Im not persuaded that Monzo 
has done anything wrong in this respect. I appreciate she may have got a refund from her other bank but that doesnt mean that should automatically happen here.
Whilst things took longer to sort out than Miss H would have liked, I dont agree that this 
automatically means that someone must have been at fault. I can see Monzo responded 
shortly after she first contacted it at 12:43 on 27 April 2022 and within an hour Monzo had 
referred the matter on to its fraud team. At 13:41, Monzo explained they would be in touch 
within 24 hours. They also explained at this time that they werent in position to guarantee 
she would get her money back - as the fraud team would need to investigate. 
The fraud team were in touch with Miss H later in the afternoon of 27 April 2022 to gather 
more information and, again, later that day to respond to Miss Hs messages and apologise 
they hadnt been able to resolve matters yet. This was still within the 24-hour time frame. 
Miss H chased the matter with Monzo again the following morning. A final answer was given 
by the fraud team at 10:53 on 28 April 2022  all within the 24-hour time frame originally 
given by Monzo.
It is clear and understandable Miss H was not happy with the outcome and, in response to 
her messages, at 12:17 on 28 April 2022 Monzo explained it would raise the matter with its 
Advocacy team. Monzos message did suggest the team would call Miss H and I can see 
Miss H responded saying she would like to be called quickly. In response to her at 12:22 on 
28 April 2022, Monzo explained a timeline of four days had already be outlined. The 
Advocacy team was in touch within the four working days; although I appreciate this was via 
the chat and not a call.
Miss H has strong feelings about this matter. I can understand that - she was out of pocket 
and wanted her money back as soon as possible. Whilst I acknowledge Miss Hs frustration 
with the unenviable situation, she found herself in through no fault of her own, its clear that 
Miss H was annoyed by how the banks systems and procedures are set up. I cannot require 
it to change those systems and procedures - so I cannot say it has done something wrong 
by not calling her. It did respond to her within the timeframes it set  which werent 
unreasonable in my view. Ultimately, I am unable to require Monzo to pay compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to her in situations where the bank has not done 
anything wrong and did not treat her unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023. 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman