DRN-3041913
The complaint
L complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) wrongly returned a payment sent to its account 
back to the remitting bank.  
To put things right, L wants Santander to reimburse it for the value of the returned payment. 
What happened
L was sent a payment by a third-party based abroad in February 2020. L says it was owed 
this money for a breach of contract by the third-party. 
After a few days of the payment being sent, Santander, following a review, sent the money 
back to the remitting bank account. Unhappy with this, L complained. 
In its response, Santander said it found no evidence it made an error. It said payments held 
for additional checks are part of the terms and conditions of the account. And, all incoming 
and outgoing payments are subject to additional checks, which as a result, may be returned. 
Santander offered, and upon acceptance of L, paid it £75 as a goodwill gesture for the 
inconvenience it suffered.  
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, L referred its complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter. In summary, they found: 
- In order to meet its regulatory and legal obligations, Santander can carry out a review 
of its customers accounts. 
- Santander has provided information showing that during the review it requested 
information from both L and the third-partys bank. And based on this, Santander 
decided to return the money back. 
- The terms of account permit Santander to restrict access to funds if it has security 
concerns. And it can return the funds back to source if it still has concerns within two 
months. 
- Santander didnt cause unreasonable delays during its review. 
Unhappy with what our investigator said, in summary L has said: 
- It was never asked for information by Santander about the payment. L cannot speak 
for what the third party was asked but would like to see the evidence related to this. 
- L only knew about the payment being made when Santander called to query it. L 
says it explained why the payment had been made. 
- Santander then explained that it would look into the matter and get back to L. L never 
heard anything again and no explanation was given. 
- The funds never made it to Ls account, so how can Santander restrict them. 
- Santander hasnt adequately followed its protocols.  
This matter has now been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that Ive decided not to uphold Ls complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
news for L  so Ill explain why. 
I appreciate the problems Santanders review has caused L  even though this wasnt 
properly explained to it - and I think this is understandable. But businesses like Santander 
has very important legal and regulatory obligations to observe. And sometimes it might need 
to take an action on an account to ensure it is complying with these responsibilities. 
It is also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship.
That sometimes means financial businesses need to restrict customers accounts  or in this 
case, more specifically, payments into it. 
Im satisfied based on all the information I have seen, and the basis for Santanders review 
and subsequent decision, that its actions were reasonable. 
L says that it was never asked for any information by Santander as part of a review  and 
that it would like to see what information was requested from the third-party. But L has said 
Santander called to query the payment, and that L explained why it was being made. To my 
mind, this is Santander asking for information. 
Additionally, when L referred this complaint this service, it said: 
I then received a telephone call, on 28th February 2020, from a person from Santander, 
asking me about the payment. I explained why the payment was being made, and this 
person asked if I could get some information from the person in [foreign country]. I explained 
this was unlikely as I was threatening legal action against this person for failure to pay. I also 
told this person that the person who owed the money had asked his bank to get the payment 
back.
Given what L told us, Im persuaded Santander had asked both parties for information 
relating to the payment. Santander has given me screenshots from its internal systems 
which show it was carrying out a review and making relevant investigations. In any event, L 
was made aware by the third-party that it had requested the money bank from its bank. So 
its likely, alongside Santanders review and subsequent decision to return the funds, the 
third-partys request for the money back contributed to what happened. 
Overall, Im satisfied Santander had a lawful basis for taking the action it did.  
I would like L to know our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive
information.Some of the information Santander has provided is information I consider should be kept
confidential. But Id like to reassure L that Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen,
Santander has acted fairly by returning the funds to source.
I note L says the funds never made it into its account. But Santander carried out its review 
based on the funds being destined for Ls account. Banks generally have sundry accounts 
where it can hold money if a review, like this, needs to be carried out.  
L says it never received a call from Santander as promised when it was carrying out a review 
and in response to a call it made to query the payment. I have no reason to doubt what L 
says about this. Other than this, I havent seen anything to show Santander caused any 
undue delay in carrying out its review. 
Im persuaded this matter caused L inconvenience. I note Santander has paid L £75 as a 
goodwill gesture. I dont think it needs to do anymore. 
So, in conclusion, and after weighing everything up, Im satisfied Santander hasnt done 
anything wrong in reviewing the payment sent to L, and then returning it to source. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
Ketan Nagla 
Ombudsman
