DRN-4512430
The complaint
X complains that Capital One (Europe) plc agreed a repayment plan for Xs credit card only 
to then default Xs account.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 14 November 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator 
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 12 December 2023. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
X complains that Capital One (Europe) plc agreed a repayment plan for Xs credit card only 
to then default Xs account.
What happened
On 1 March 2023, Capital One sent X a default notice letter. This set out that Xs credit
card account was overdue by £224.15 and, to prevent a default, this had to be paid by 29
March 2023. This letter also set out a number of actions to avoid a default and mentioned
that a default would be reported to Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
On 6 March, X called Capital One to explain changes in X challenging circumstances. X 
explained X vulnerable position was proving challenging in the short-term, and a discussion 
took place on affordability, breathing space and payment plans. X said the agent clearly 
stated that in order for me to ensure the account does not default I would need to pay a 
higher amount of £71.00 by 29th March 2023. On 24 March 2023, X paid £71.00 towards X 
account. However, Capital One still actioned a Statement of Default on 3 April 2023.
X complained to Capital One as X felt X had been misinformed and treated
unfairly. Also, X considered the information registered to CRAs to be defamation.
Capital One said their default action was correct and a plan to pay £71 per month hadnt
been agreed.
X complained to our service and during the process Capital One maintained their version of 
events but, to resolve the dispute, made an offer to remove the default after 6 monthly 
payments of £70. X was unhappy with this offer. X thought it indicated that
they knew they had acted incorrectly yet were refusing to offer the original plan for £70 which
X paid before the given deadline of 29th March 2023.
Upon her final review our investigator considered that Capital One had made an error and 
said the default should be removed and a plan of £70 should be implemented.
However, Capital One said they would only agree to lift the default after six monthly 
payments of a higher amount. They also said that X outstanding balance had not changed, 
and interest and fees no longer apply due to the default. But explained the arrears have 
increased since the account defaulted due to X not making any payments.
So, this case has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have a different view to the investigator and Im not upholding this 
complaint.
This is because I cant see that Capital One acted unfairly or unreasonably when defaulting
Xs account. Also, I cant see that X was ready to agree a plan that wouldve enabled Capital 
One to lift the default before the deadline date.
However, recognising Xs challenging position here, Im pleased to see that Capital
One is still willing to help a customer, with characteristics of vulnerability, by offering a plan.
I appreciate this will be a higher amount due to X not making payments and this has
previously been offered and rejected.
I first considered whether Capital Ones 29 March 2023 deadline, to pay £224.15, was fair
and reasonable. Although X was open and honest about X financial difficulties and I
empathise with Xs very difficult circumstances, I think it was. I say this as there is evidence
that X broke the terms of X Credit Agreement by not paying monthly minimum
payments and Capital One had informed X of this on 1 March 2023.
The dispute here is about whether or not Capital One agreed to a £70 monthly plan to avoid
the default before the deadline on 29 March 2023. So, I listened carefully to the call X
had with a Capital One representative on 6 March 2023 to see what was agreed.
I found the representative to be both clear and helpful. She said the only way to get the
account down and avoid a default would be to pay £224.15 or, as that was clearly
unaffordable, for a £70 monthly payment plan to be set up before the 29 March 2023
deadline. However, after completing an expenditure review, which highlighted this would be
challenging for X in the short-term, a plan wasnt agreed. Instead, it was left for X
to consider whether X could afford this and although it was clear X had no desire to
default on X account, X said, Ill be back in contact and the representative said,
call us back.
In addition, Capital One followed this up the next day with a breathing space email which 
included the following:
you are at risk of being defaulted
To help you at this difficult time, we're stopping interest and fees on your account.
We won't call you. but we are always here if you need to speak to us.
It's important that you contact us if your situation changes
So, Im satisfied that the onus was on X to contact Capital One before the deadline where X 
decided X could afford regular payments of £70 per month.
X feels that the representative should have been more considerate and offered a lower
plan option (an amount less than £70) and, although I can understand Xs vulnerability
and requirement here, I found the representative acted in a responsible way. She discussedsupport services, offered and explained low breathing space payments but ultimately,
because of the amount of debt X owed, lower payments just wouldnt bring Xs
account up to date within the required business timeframes to avoid a default.
Although X paid the £71 prior to the default deadline on the 24 March 2023, and this
may have indicated X could afford the potential plan discussed on 6 March 2023, I cant
see any evidence that X got back in contact with Capital One to further discuss and
agree the plan. So, having listened to the call, Im not persuaded that there was confusion
about the plan being agreed and / or a £71 payment prior to the 29 March 2023 being
sufficient action to stop the default.
Furthermore, the reason X didnt agree the plan on 6 March was because X had to
consider X ability to be able to consistently pay £70 (or more) per month and Xs later
comments on 1 April 2023; that the plan amount shouldve been lower, X had lot of
expenses this month, X was now short of money having paid the £71 on 24 March 2023
and needed an extra month, I think it is more likely than not that X wasnt yet in a position to
commit to a regular payment of £70 prior to the deadline.
Although X dismissed the following offer from Capital One:
While we are unable to offer a 12-month plan moving forward, we would be able to set a
payment arrangement for a maximum of 6 months. However, these payments would be
higher than the original plan offered at £70.00 per month, the customer would need to call us
to discuss this further to check affordability. The arrangement would need to be set on the
account within the next 30 days. Once the 6 payments were consecutively made with no
breaks in the payment arrangement, we would remove the associated default.
I cant see that Capital One have explained their reasoning here and I can understand X 
thinking this indicates they did make an offer and didnt act correctly. So, before I make a
final decision, it would be helpful if Capital One can clarify the reason for their offer.
I found that X contacted Capital One after 29 March 2023 deadline, which had been
communicated verbally and in writing, and two days before the default was registered. So,
as their representative, later, indicated a payment plan couldve still been agreed at a late
stage, I also considered whether Capital One shouldve contacted X to further discuss 
payment plans on this date or 24 March 2023 when X made a £71 payment.
I didnt think this was a reasonable expectation because of the short timeframe. Also, as 
mentioned above Capital One had been very clear that X needed to make contact.
Furthermore, even if it had been possible, due to Xs comments Im not persuaded that X 
was in a position to agree a plan starting in March.
So, having considered all the above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision not to uphold this complaint.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 12 December 
2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both parties the opportunity to provide any comments or 
new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final decision.
Capital One clarified the offer they made wasnt because theyd made an error. They said it 
was because:
The customer may have been under the impression that X payment would prevent the 
default, and our offer is based on the intention behind the payment X made.
X disagreed with my provisional decision and said:
It feels very biased as The focus often shifts to the onus being on myself whilst 
mentioning in another sentence that the account have defaulted due to the arrangement 
not being set on the account correctly. I see not much mention of the agent at Capitol 
One explaining how the system works and why the account defaulted being there error 
going as far to say this should not have happened. There system did not recognise the 
£71 payment was made was the exact words of the agent. Was this call listened to ?.
It feels a rushed response and I have been discriminated and my circumstance is being 
used against me to uphold this complaint in the favour of Capital One. You mention alot 
about what Capitol One have said and less about the number of calls and contact I made 
to prevent this from happening. No further payments were made as I was told this would 
be investigated further. The have affectively agreed to remove the default on the basis of 
them receiving 6 months of payments first. This was either correct or not why was it on 
the basis of anything if they had received these payments but were willing to leave my 
account in a default state for a further 6 months which would have an adverse affect on 
myself/credit file. What I was asking for was simply for the payment plan I wanted to pay 
to be reinstated and the default removed.
In order to fully understand Xs response, I asked X some follow up questions and I 
appreciate Xs response.
Although Capital One confirmed they hadnt made an error, which was consistent with their 
submissions, due to both Xs and Capital Ones comments, I again considered all the 
information on file. This included reviewing the latest submissions and listening to the calls 
again.
In calls X had both with our service, and with Capital One after the 29 March 2023 deadline, 
X consistently said X did what was required to avoid a default by paying £71 before the 
deadline and thats why X has been treated unfairly here. However, Im satisfied that the 6 
March call recording, summarised in my above provisional decision, clearly shows that no 
plan was agreed. X said X would review X financial situation and get back to Capital One 
before the deadline
From reviewing the file, Im persuaded X wanted to avoid a default if X could, however Im 
unclear on why X paid the £71 on 24 March 2023. Possibilities include X misinterpreting the 
representative or only recalling part of the conversation. However, from listening to the 6 
March 2023 call and Xs comments I find these possibilities difficult to understand. Also, 
based on Xs call with Capital One shortly after the deadline, where X expressed 
dissatisfaction with the representative for not offering a plan lower than £70 and couldnt 
really afford this until late April, it appears that X wasnt in a position to request the plan 
before the 29 March 2023 deadline and required a plan with a lower amount or later start 
date.However, although I cant be sure about the reason X paid £71 on 24 March 2023, I found 
that Capital One clearly explained the position to X, followed this up in writing, said they 
wouldnt contact X and clearly communicated to X two options to avoid a default. These 
were paying £224.15 or agreeing a £70 plan before the 29 March 2023 deadline. So, 
although I empathise with Xs situation, as my role is to be impartial and objective, it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable to ask Capital One to lift the default when they didnt make an error and 
X paid £71 without discussing or agreeing a plan.
As X paid the £71 before the deadline and called Capital One after the deadline, but prior to 
the default action which occurred after 29 March 2023, I did consider whether Capital One 
shouldve contacted X or stopped the default.
The £71 on 24 March 2023 was made on-line four working days before the deadline. Even 
though X was a vulnerable customer, as this was lower than the required £224.15, and a 
plan wasnt in place, I thought it unlikely and unreasonable to expect a system to alert 
representatives. In addition, Capital One made it clear both verbally and in writing that they 
wouldnt contact X and the onus was on X to make contact if X was in a financial position to 
agree a plan. 
X spoke to a Capital One collections representative shortly after the deadline. The 
representative wasnt sure about the system cycle date and if the default had yet been 
generated. However, the deadline had clearly passed and, as mentioned above, X was 
looking for an alternative plan as X explained X was short having paid the £71 on 24 March 
2023.
I do recognise that, at the compliant handling stage, a Capital One representative did make 
several comments which suggested Capital One had made an error, such as the plan 
wasnt set correctly, the plan was set up on the £20 rather than the one to avoid the 
default, maybe some information may have been overlooked, maybe we jumped the gun. 
However, I found the representatives comments to have been speculative. I say this 
because he didnt have the facts to hand and know a £20 breathing space was agreed, was 
speaking as he was reading notes and made comments such as I cant tell you for certain, 
the notes dont make an awful lot of sense to me, I dont want to say the agent is wrong. 
In addition, the representative was responding to Xs explanation of the 6 March 2023 call 
which, as mentioned, was different to the call recording I listened to.
So, having considered everything again, Im not upholding this complaint as I cant see that 
Capital One have made an error with the default.
Finally, Capital One have made an offer to X and although it has taken some time for them 
to explain their rationale, I think this is a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman