DRN-4023555
The complaint
Mr S complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (ELL) lent to him 
irresponsibly. Hes also said theyre reporting incorrect data on his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S complaint about irresponsible lending
We dont have the power to investigate every complaint brought to our Service. We can only 
deal with those that fall within the remit of the rules that govern us. The relevant rule in this 
case is DISP 2.8.2. This says we cant consider complaints raised:
more than six years after the event complained of; or if later,
three years from the date the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) they had cause for complaint.
We can only consider complaints raised outside these time limits if the financial business 
consents to our involvement, or the delay in complaining was caused by exceptional 
circumstances. ELL hasnt consented to our involvement, so Ive had to decide if Mr S raised 
his complaint in time.
Mr S complains ELL lent to him irresponsibly, so this is the event complained of. Mr S took 
out the loan in March 2016, so he had six years from that date to raise his complaint. This 
means Mr S needed to complain by March 2022. Mr S didnt complain until June 2022, so he 
was around three months too late when he did so - and he was out of time under this part of 
the rule.
I next had to consider when Mr S became aware or ought reasonably to have become aware 
he had cause to complain. In the context of this complaint, for me to say the clock starts, Id 
need to identify when Mr S became aware/ought reasonably to have become aware:
his loan was unaffordable;
the unaffordable loan caused him loss; and
it was ELLs actions, or failure to act, that caused him loss.
Im aware that Mr S has brought several complaints to our Service regarding irresponsible 
lending, and some date back to October 2018. Given that Mr S was notified in 
November 2017 that his loan account would be defaulted, I consider he ought reasonably to 
have been aware he had cause to complain a lot sooner than June 2022. 
Mr S previous complaints demonstrate that as far back as October 2018 he had at least 
some understanding of the obligations on financial businesses to lend responsibly. 
Therefore, given what we know about his financial circumstances at the time, and the impact 
hes said this had on his personal life, I consider he could have raised his complaint a lot 
sooner than he did.
The above means Mr S had three years from October 2018 to raise his complaint, meaning 
the deadline under this part of the rule was October 2021. As this predates the deadline 
under the six-year part of the rule, the March 2022 deadline still stands  and Mr S 
complaint was still raised out of time.
If a complaint is raised out of time, were able to get involved if the delay was caused by 
exceptional circumstances. However, the bar for this is a high one as demonstrated by 
DISP 2.8.4 which says, An example of exceptional circumstances might be where the 
complainant has been or is incapacitated.
Mr S has said he didnt complain sooner because he thought he could only complain to our 
Service about payday lending. I appreciate Mr S may not know every detail about what we 
can and cant investigate, I dont consider his misunderstanding amounts to exceptional 
circumstances under DISP. Thats because DISP defines a complaint as an expression of 
dissatisfaction, and Ive seen nothing to explain why he couldnt have told ELL he was 
unhappy with their lending decision when he was taking steps to deal with his financial 
situation in 2018. Therefore, I still consider this aspect of Mr S complaint isnt one we can 
deal with because it was raised out of time.
Data on Mr S credit file
Mr S has said ELL have reported his loan twice on his credit file and wants them to correct 
this.
Ive seen a partial copy of Mr S credit file, but I cant see that the debt has been reported 
twice. What I have seen is that there is information showing the status of Mr S account 
(what he owed) when it closed after being defaulted. Ive also seen theres an entry that 
explains a CCJ was issued and the amount of that judgment.
While I accept these entries are referring to the ELL loan, Ive not seen anything to show his 
credit file is saying he owes more than he really does. Because of that, I cant conclude ELL 
has reported incorrect data to Mr S credit file. As such, I wont be asking ELL to do anything 
to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr S complaint about Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman