DRN-1374521
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with BoS since 1994 and they took out an MPPI policy in 
2001. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The mortgage was jointly held but only Mr 
B was named on the MPPI. The policy wouldve covered their repayments for up to 12 
months at a time if Mr B was unable to work through accident, sickness or if he was made 
redundant.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs B said that they didnt consent to the policy and didnt have any knowledge of it 
until much later. BoS said that Mr and Mrs B took the policy out in a branch dont have any 
documentation from the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither BoS nor Mr and Mrs B 
have any documentation from the sale. Mr and Mrs B think this shows that it was added 
without their agreement. Whilst acknowledging that things could have happened just as Mr 
and Mrs B said, considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So having considered all the 
submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that BoS wouldve made Mr 
and Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it, even though they 
may not remember that now, many years later. 
BoS says they recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B. And whilst Mr and Mrs B thought 
that no advice was given, because it makes no difference to the outcome of the complaint, 
whilst placing a more searching test on BoSs sale, I will consider this complaint as if advice 
was given. This meant BoS needed to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was 
suitable for them. 
I think BoSs recommendation was right for Mr and Mrs B based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. I explain why below.Mr B was eligible for the policy and it looks like he was the only working partner at the time. 
Mr B also doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover, for example, any unusual employment terms or pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs B said Mr B would not have received any some sick pay from his employer if he 
was unwell. And Mr and Mrs B told us they had no other means they could rely on in that 
event or if he lost his job. The PPI policy wouldve covered Mr B for up to 12 months if he 
couldnt work through accident or sickness, or if he lost his job. So, considering all of this, 
and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on their home, I 
think they couldve found the policy useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
B.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs B, BoS also had to give them clear 
enough information about the policy, so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was 
suitable for them, I dont think better information wouldve stopped them from buying it. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman