DRN-4195479
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint relates to the advice given to him by Lanyon Financial Planning Limited 
(Lanyon) in 2007 to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. Following a review of the advice carried out by a law 
firm on behalf of Lanyon, this concluded that Mr G would most likely have still gone ahead 
with the transfer had the advice been carried out correctly. Mr G disagrees. He says hes 
been treated unfairly and has lost out as a result of the advice he received.
What happened
An investigator upheld the complaint and required Lanyon to pay compensation.
I issued my provisional decision saying that, while I intended to uphold the complaint in line 
with the investigators overall conclusion, I wanted to expand on my reasoning. A copy of the 
background to the complaint, and my provisional findings, are below in italics and form part 
of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
In 2007, Mr Gs employer offered him an incentive to consider transferring away from his DB 
scheme pension in the form of an enhanced transfer value. Mr G met with Lanyon and 
sought advice on his options.
Lanyon asked Mr G to complete a fact-find to enable it to gather information about Mr Gs 
circumstances and objectives. This recorded that Mr G was married; he was 48 years old; he 
had two dependent children; he planned to retire at 60 (approx.); and his DB scheme was 
his only pension.
The fact-find also contained a question about Mr Gs attitude to investment risk  but this 
was not completed.
On 26 June 2007, Lanyon offered its written advice to Mr G. Its conclusion was that, if Mr 
Gs primary aim was to maximise his retirement income, its recommendation was to stay in 
the DB scheme. But it went on to say that if any of the following were of greater importance 
to Mr G, it would recommend he transfer. These were:
Receiving benefits before age 65.
Maximising lump sum death benefits.
Maximising tax-free cash
Receiving a cash bonus now.
Transferring because of concerns about the schemes under-funding.
It asked Mr G what he wanted to do.
In a follow up letter of 27 July 2007 after Mr G had completed his personal pension plan 
application, Lanyon confirmed its recommendation that Mr G should transfer away from his 
DB scheme. It said that Mr G was unlikely to receive benefits equal to what he could expect 
from his DB scheme, but it said that Mr G wanted to transfer because, amongst other things 
he had concerns about the solvency of his employer and he wanted to retire before 65. 
Lanyon said that it therefore recommended Mr G transfer his benefits to a personal plan 
based on his current circumstances and the results of the Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) 
report. It said that in terms of fund choice, Mr G had chosen to select his own investment 
funds.
Mr Gs pension transfer completed in September 2007 and around £91,000 was transferred 
to his new personal pension and invested in a balanced lifestyle fund.
In 2018, as part of a review commissioned by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Lanyon instructed a law firm to carry out a review of its transfer advice to consumers who 
had been offered enhanced transfer values as an incentive to leave their employers DB 
scheme. And Mr G opted in to be part of this review.
In March 2021 Mr G was issued with the results of this review. It concluded that, while the 
advice Mr G was provided with by Lanyon was not suitable or compliant, he wouldve likely 
gone ahead and transferred anyway had he been properly advised. In summary it said that, 
based on the available evidence - including the questionnaire Mr G had completed as part of 
its review as well as a telephone conversation - Mr G understood the implications of  
transferring and that it was the ability to retire earlier than his scheme wouldve allowed, and 
the higher cash lump sum on offer, that influenced his decision to transfer and outweighed 
any reason for staying in the scheme.
Because Mr G was dissatisfied with the outcome of the review, the legal firm responsible for 
it said it would revisit its conclusions. And having done so, on 28 June 2022 it reconfirmed its 
conclusions as set out above.
Mr G referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator upheld the 
complaint and required Lanyon to pay compensation. In summary they said the advice was 
unsuitable and a transfer wasnt in Mr Gs best interests. They said the growth rate required 
to match Mr Gs DB scheme benefits meant he was likely to be worse off in retirement. They 
didnt think Mr Gs retirement plans were known  his income needs werent established by 
Lanyon and there was nothing to suggest he needed access to a higher tax-free cash lump 
sum. They said that death benefits shouldnt have been prioritised over Mr Gs retirement 
income need. And while they noted that Mr Gs DB scheme didnt provide for a spouses 
pension, there was no evidence that the option of life cover was considered. Overall they 
said there was no compelling reason for Mr G to have transferred his pension  he didnt 
need to risk his pension benefits at this time when his decision couldve been made nearer 
to his intended retirement age when his needs wouldve been known.
Lanyon disagreed. In summary it said that it was confused by the investigators conclusions 
because it had already conceded that the advice provided to Mr G was deficient.
 It said the disagreement is about causation - specifically its view that, on balance Mr G 
wouldve transferred out in any event - which it couldnt see the investigator had properly 
addressed. It asked the investigator to revisit their assessment.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion and they clarified that they 
believed if Mr G had been suitably advised he wouldve followed that advice and remained in 
his DB scheme.Lanyon replied. In summary it said the investigator had unfairly refused to engage with its 
request to re-visit the assessment of the complaint and that theyd ignored the strength of 
evidence which shows that, amongst other things, Mr Gs desire to retire early was 
instrumental in his decision to transfer. It maintains that the weight of evidence demonstrates 
Mr G wouldve transferred in any event and regardless of the unsuitable advice he received.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Lanyon's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COB 5.3.29A(2):
When the firm is recommending a customer to transfer or opt out of any other type of 
occupational pension scheme, the suitability letter should include:
(a) a clear explanation why transferring or opting out is more suitable than remaining in the    
occupational scheme.
Presumption of unsuitability
COB 5.3.29G specified the information a business should gather from the consumer and the 
DB scheme in order to assess suitability. And importantly it also said that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been renumbered to COBS 
19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook. So, Lanyon should have only considered a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
I can see from Lanyons response to the investigators assessment of the complaint that, it is 
not disputed there were failings in the advice it provided to Mr G at the time and so wasnt 
suitable. What is in dispute is whether those failings have resulted in Mr G losing out  
Lanyon says Mr G wouldve likely still gone ahead if things had happened as they should 
have, while Mr G disagrees. This is therefore the crux of the complaint. But before I address 
this point, for the sake of completeness I think it is appropriate and necessary for me to firstly 
explain why I think the advice Lanyon provided to Mr G was unsuitable  albeit perhaps in 
less detail than I would ordinarily do given the broad agreement on this matter.
Financial viability
Lanyon carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Gs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
Mr G was 48 at the time of the advice and he indicated that he wanted to retire at 
60(approx.). Lanyon produced analysis to show the critical yields required to match Mr Gs 
benefits at both age 60 and 65, which were:
Age 60 - 11.60% if he took a full pension and 10.5% if he took a lump sum and a 
reduced pension.
Age 65  9.8% if he took a full pension and 9.2% if he took a lump sum and a 
reduced pension.
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 
8.7% per year if Mr G took a full pension and 8.5% per year if he took a lump sum and a 
reduced pension.
This compares with the discount rate of 6.5% per year for 16 years to retirement (age 65) 
and 4.1% for six years to retirement (age 60) in this case. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9% the middle projection rate 7%, and the 
lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Gs 
assumed attitude to risk of balanced given his fund choice, and also the term to retirement.
In my view there would be little point in Mr G giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme.But here, given the lowest critical yield was 9.2%, which was significantly above the discount 
rate and above the regulators upper projection rate, I think Mr G was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result 
of transferring his pension to a personal arrangement and investing in line with a balanced 
attitude to risk. This would also be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
Ive said that I have assumed Mr Gs attitude to risk was balanced, which is based on the 
investment fund selection Mr Gs pension monies were ultimately invested in. This is 
because as I indicated earlier on, Mr G did not complete the attitude to investment risk 
section of the questionnaire prior to his discussions with Lanyon. And I cant see that Lanyon 
made any attempt to question or make an assessment of Mr Gs attitude to risk in 
formulating its advice, which is something I wouldve expected it to do. Mr G might have 
chosen his own investment fund as recorded on the advice paperwork (Ill discuss this later 
on)  but I still wouldve expected Lanyon to have carried out this assessment so it could 
make a recommendation on the whole transaction envisaged  not simply whether to 
transfer or not.
I can see that Lanyons suitability report said that it was unlikely the growth rate required to 
match Mr Gs DB scheme benefits was unlikely to be achieved and based on income levels 
alone it would recommend Mr G retain his DB scheme benefits. And in my view this is where 
Lanyons recommendation shouldve stopped  for this reason alone I think a transfer out of 
the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Gs best interests.
Nevertheless I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice  something Lanyon argues in this case. There might be other considerations which 
mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this 
below.
Flexibility - early retirement possibility and access to a higher cash lump sum
It appears that the key reason for the recommendation to transfer was to provide Mr G with 
the option of taking his benefits before his schemes normal retirement age of 65  Mr Gs 
DB scheme didnt appear to allow Mr G to access his benefits early other than on ill health 
grounds. But while Mr G might have said he liked the idea or the option of retiring early, I 
think this is the answer the vast majority of working people would give if asked the question 
about when they wanted to retire. The advice paperwork recorded that Mr G wanted to retire 
at 60 approx - Im not persuaded this demonstrates he had any concrete retirement plans.
Lanyon didnt carry out any assessment of Mr Gs likely future income need (no income and 
expenditure analysis was recorded.) So Lanyon couldnt determine if early retirement was a 
realistic possibility for Mr G and so whether it was suitable for him to transfer his pension to 
achieve things. In my view, early retirement before age 65 was not a true objective of Mr Gs 
 it was simply a feature or consequence of transferring to a personal pension arrangement.
Similarly the advice paperwork refers to the possibility of Mr G accessing a higher tax-free 
cash lump sum through a personal pension. 
But again, Lanyon didnt determine why the larger tax-free cash available from a personal 
pension was necessary - what he needed it for and when - or why the amount on offer 
through Mr Gs DB scheme at age 65 wouldnt have been sufficient to meet any future need.
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr G to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be.Death benefits
The recommendation also referred to Mr Gs desire for lump sum pre-retirement death 
benefits.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr G. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr G might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr G about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  it is not a legacy planning tool. In my view 
Lanyon should not have encouraged Mr G to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
I accept that based on Lanyons analysis, Mr Gs DB scheme did not provide any pre- 
retirement death benefits and post retirement there was no spouses pension (Mr Gs 
pension wouldve continued to be paid for five years from the date of retirement.) But if Mr G 
genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend on investment 
returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Lanyon shouldve 
instead explored life insurance. And the starting point for this ought to have been to ask 
Mr G how much he would ideally like to leave to his spouse, and this couldve been explored 
on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension/SIPP justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr G. And I dont think 
that insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Reference was made in the suitability letter to Mr Gs concerns about his employer and the 
solvency of the pension scheme  it said he wanted to break all ties with his employer and 
would prefer to move your funds to an individual plan that is under your control.
I think Mr Gs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr G was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr G  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme. And as far 
as the funding of his employers DB scheme, Im not persuaded this was in a position such 
that Mr G should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. 
Furthermore, if the scheme did end up moving to the PPF, I think Lanyon should have 
explained that this was not as concerning as Mr G thought. As Ive shown above, Mr G was 
still unlikely to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he 
transferred out to a personal pension.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr G. But Lanyon 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr G might have thought he wanted or sounded like a 
good idea. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr G needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr G was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr G was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr G shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just for the option of early retirement when he had no plans to do so, and/or when 
no assessment was carried out as to whether it was realistic or achievable. And I dont think 
the potential for higher death benefits was worth giving up the guarantees associated with 
his DB scheme.
So, I think Lanyon shouldve advised Mr G to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, and as I set out earlier on, it is necessary for me to consider whether, if things 
had happened as they should have, Mr G would've gone ahead anyway against Lanyon's 
advice. Lanyon argues, in detail, that this is the case. Its said that the weight of evidence, 
including the advice paperwork, the questionnaire Mr G completed as part of its review of the 
advice and the phone conversations it had as part of that review, demonstrate Mr G 
wouldve gone ahead with the transfer in any event. In particular Lanyon points to Mr Gs 
desire for early retirement, amongst other things, as being instrumental in his decision to 
transfer.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr G wouldve likely insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Lanyons advice. I say this because firstly and 
foremostly Mr G was an inexperienced investor and there is no evidence to support Mr G 
being someone who possessed either the requisite knowledge, skill or confidence to go 
against the advice they were, particularly in complex pension matters. I think Mr G relied 
solely on the advice Lanyon provided. There is nothing to indicate that Mr G was a 
significant risk taker and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Gs retirement 
provision. So, if Lanyon had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
I can see from the advice paperwork that Mr G chose his own investment fund for his 
transferred pension monies and this might suggest Mr G had the knowledge or confidence in 
investment matters. But Im not persuaded this is the case here. In my view the fact Mr G 
chose his own funds stems from Lanyons failure to assess Mr Gs attitude to risk and advise 
him on the suitability of the whole of the transaction being considered. I think its likely that 
because Mr G didnt complete the attitude to risk section of the fact-find, Lanyon believed 
(wrongly in my view) that Mr G wanted to make his own investment decisions. In any event, 
choosing to invest in a balanced lifestyle fund does not, in my view, demonstrate Mr G was a 
skilled investor who has the knowledge and confidence to take control of his own investment 
decisions.
Im not persuaded that Mr Gs desire for the option of taking his pension benefits before 65 
or his concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer 
knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was 
suitable for him or in his best interests. 
If Lanyon had explained that because Mr G had no concrete plans to retire early, there was 
no need for him to risk his guaranteed pension at this time, and his concerns about his 
employer were not sufficient justification for transferring out of the scheme, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr G would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme.Lanyon appears to have placed great weight on the review questionnaire and the phone call 
(the transcript of which Lanyon has provided) in which Mr G was asked about his 
recollections of the advice he received 2007. In particular, Lanyon argues that it was Mr Gs 
desire to retire early that was instrumental in his decision to transfer.
Ive already set out earlier on why Im not persuaded Mr G had any firm plans for early 
retirement  I think he simply liked the idea of having the option of retiring early, which was a 
feature of transferring to a personal pension arrangement. It was not, in my view, a firm 
objective of Mr Gs. And I think Mr Gs answer on the review questionnaire supports this. I 
say this because, Mr G might have ticked the box to indicate that wanting to retire early was 
relevant to his decision to transfer. But underneath this he also wrote:
another topic at the time was, if you stayed in the scheme you could not take anything from 
your pension until 65, however transfer and you could access funds at 50.
In my view this shows that Mr G simply liked the idea of retiring early  it is not persuasive 
evidence that Mr G had an overriding desire to retire early such that he wouldve gone 
against the advice he received and wouldve transferred his pension in any event.
I can see that Lanyon refers to Mr G being advised by a family members accountant that 
he should transfer. But Im not persuaded he received advice  not in the formal sense. Mr G 
indicated in Lanyons review questionnaire that he had not sought advice from anyone else 
about his pension. In my view Mr G describes a casual conversation, so Im not persuaded 
he wouldve placed greater weight on this conversation over the formal advice he received 
from Lanyon  advice as I said above he had sought out.
More generally Im not persuaded that I can place much weight on what Mr G said in the 
review phone call Lanyon had with Mr G around 2018 to support the view he wouldve 
transferred in any event. This phone call was 11 years after the advice was given and Im 
mindful that at this stage Mr G was unaware of the failings in the advice he received so he 
had no cause to question that advice or believe that he might have lost out as a result of 
transferring. In my view many of Mr Gs comments appear based on his circumstances at 
the time of the phone call and arent reflective of his thoughts or his likely actions at the time 
of the advice in 2007. For example his comment about it being important he has a fund now 
that if he needed to access he could, was said in the context of him coming 60 years of 
age.
It is clear from the phone call that Mr G did not know or remember the value of his DB 
pension benefits he was giving up by transferring  an annual income of around £17,200 a 
year at age 65 based on Lanyons analysis  or understand that the investment return of 
9.8% the representative referred to as being the growth rate required to match his scheme 
benefits was required each and every year until pension age. Mr G referred to his pension 
having achieved a 17% return over two years and appears to have misunderstood that hed 
exceeded the return required. And I think this is why he said he made the right decision to 
transfer  he didnt believe anything had gone wrong at this point.
Overall, for the reasons I have detailed above, if things had happened as they should have 
and Mr G was advised to remain in his DB scheme, Im not persuaded that Mr G would have 
gone against that advice and insisted on transferring out of his scheme.
In light of the above, I think Lanyon should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Finally I can see that the investigator recommended Lanyon pay Mr G £300 in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. But having thought carefully about this, Im not currently persuaded that Mr G has suffered to the extent that an award is 
warranted in this case. So I dont intend on making an award here.
Both Mr G and Lanyon said they had anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, because neither party has given me anything new to consider, I see no 
reason to change mind  so Ive reached the same conclusion and for the same reasons as 
set out in my provisional decision, which as I said above forms part of my final decision.
I uphold this complaint and I require Lanyon to do the following to put things right.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Lanyon Financial Planning Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
For clarity, Mr G has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr Gs acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Lanyon Financial Planning Limited should:
always calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line  with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr G accepts Lanyon Financial Planning Limiteds offer to calculate how much of 
their redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr G for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr G as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Lanyon may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lanyon Financial 
Planning Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also intend to 
recommend that Lanyon Financial Planning Limited pays Mr G the balance.
If Mr G accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Lanyon Financial 
Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept any 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman