DRN-3857823
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr M says he opened an account in July 2021 to trade in cryptocurrency. And that he was 
tricked by friends to allow payments into his account. He didnt know that this was fraudulent. 
The marker has affected his ability to access financial products.
Monzo Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It had received reports that money paid into     
Mr Ms account had been obtained fraudulently. It had grounds to add the marker.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, the marker removed and Mr M 
paid £200 in compensation. She explained that there is a high bar for adding a marker. And 
Monzo Bank didnt contact Mr M before adding it and it hasnt met the standard of proof 
required. She said that she found Mr Ms explanation to be plausible having spoken to him. 
He said hed been told that the money was from the sale of cryptocurrency and that he could 
keep some of the funds as a thank you. And could learn how to trade to make money. 
Mr M said that he accepted the recommendation. Monzo Bank said that having reviewed the 
position it would change the marker from one stating that Mr M had retained a wrongful 
credit to Third party fraud facilitator- funds received- conduct unexplained. It said that this 
was an appropriate loading for a money mule who transferred the funds themselves. And it 
said that as a result the compensation wouldnt be appropriate. Our investigator told Monzo 
Bank that she still didnt think it had met the standard of proof for adding a marker and so 
shed refer the case for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr M was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
I note that on 15 July 2021 having been told about the decision to close his account Mr M 
stated in an online chat with Monzo Bank that I trade thats why I can also provide evidence 
of my transactions. But Monzo Bank said it couldnt give any more information or do more.
Our investigator has now spoken with Mr M and finds his account of what happened to be 
plausible. I dont have reason to go behind that and I note he has evidenced his other trading 
in cryptocurrency. He may have been able to provide more information to Monzo Bank at the 
time as hed offered to, and I think hes been consistent in what hes said. So, Im not 
persuaded on the information that he was a witting participant in what happened and that his 
intention was to facilitate fraud. I also dont think that Monzo Banks offer now to change the 
marker is a sufficient response given this finding. I dont consider it has met the standard of 
proof required.
I agree that the recommendation of our investigator is fair and note that it was a matter for 
Monzo Bank to decide to close the account in line with its terms and conditions.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
1) Remove the CIFAS marker.
2) Pay Mr M £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman