DRN-3193407
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) declined its request for a loan under the Recovery Loan Scheme.
Rs director, Miss R, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
R banked with NatWest and approached the bank with a request to borrow £250,000 under 
the Recovery Loan Scheme in April 2021. 
NatWest initially declined Rs application without fully considering it, on the basis that the 
company hadnt been trading at the requisite time. But this was an error, arising from some 
miscommunication within the bank about the eligibility requirements. When Miss R 
complained, NatWest confirmed it had made a mistake and that it would proceed to fully 
assess Rs application. It apologised for the inconvenience caused and paid £300 to R.
NatWest duly reviewed Rs application, but decided to decline it. When confirming its 
decision to Miss R on 6 May 2021, the bank said its main reasons were the lack of 
contribution from her side (or the companys), the lack of a trading track record and that the 
request had failed to meet the banks affordability criteria. 
In responding to a further complaint from Miss R, NatWest confirmed that its decision would 
remain unchanged. In response to concerns that Miss R raised about a credit check that 
would be reported on her credit file, the bank said that this had been conducted as part of its 
standard process and would therefore not be removed.
Miss R asked us to look into things, as she didnt think NatWest had handled Rs application 
fairly. She thought the company was eligible for the loan and wanted the bank to provide it. 
She remained unhappy with NatWests handling of the request initially, where it had 
misadvised her. And she was concerned that a credit check had been incorrectly recorded, 
as the abortive application ought not to have been processed as far as it did.
One of our investigators looked into things, but didnt recommend that NatWest take any 
further action. She said, in summary, that:
NatWest had the authority to decide whether to offer a loan to R and, in doing so, 
could consider whether the application represented a viable business proposition. 
Looking at the information on which the bank had based its decision to decline the 
application, she didnt think it had acted unreasonably.
The bank had carried out a credit check in line with its standard process and Miss R 
had given her consent to this when submitting her application. 
While NatWest had caused R some inconvenience in how it had handled the request 
initially, it had taken reasonable steps to put this right in proceeding to consider the 
application in full and paying £300 compensation for any inconvenience caused.
Miss R didnt accept our investigators view. While our investigator had referred to two 
applications, she said there had actually been three  and it was the third application that 
had incorrectly generated an additional credit check. She also disputed the banks 
conclusion that the proposal wasnt viable, given that it was aware R had secured a 
£300,000 contract and that she hadnt been told by her relationship manager that the 
business wasnt viable.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why. I should point out that in doing so, I wont address each and every 
point that Miss R has raised over the course of hers correspondence with us and the bank, 
which I hope she wont see as discourteous. Rather, Ill focus on the matters that I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached my decision.
Under the rules of the Recovery Loan Scheme, lenders were entitled  and expected  to 
assess the viability of the lending proposition. Applications were still subject to affordability 
and creditworthiness assessments in a similar way to conventional loans, with lenders 
retaining the discretion to consider requests in line with their usual underwriting policies.
In explaining its decision to decline Rs application, NatWest pointed to a number of factors. 
One was the viability of the proposal, which it said had failed to meet its most basic 
affordability criteria (before any sensitisation, or stress-testing, had been applied). I know 
Miss R doesnt think that was justified, but it is subjective and the bank was entitled to apply 
its own parameters in assessing affordability and/or viability. Looking at the information the 
bank considered, I think its conclusion on this was reasonable. 
Even setting that issue aside, NatWest also held concerns from a risk perspective  noting 
both Rs lack of a track record (having only been established in mid-2020) and the minimal 
contribution being staked by the company or Miss R as its director in light of the £250,000 
loan it was seeking. Those concerns, in and of themselves, wouldve been legitimate 
grounds for the bank to turn down the request.
Taking all of this into account, I think NatWests decision to decline the loan was a 
reasonable exercise of the discretion it had under the Scheme rules.
In assessing Miss Rs application, NatWest carried out a search of her credit file. It obtained 
her consent to do so, so I dont think it did anything wrong. Miss R says that more than one 
credit check was conducted, but Ive not seen that was the case from the evidence weve 
been provided. I understand that Miss R considers the bank ought to have realised that the 
application wouldnt succeed as the fact that the company hadnt been trading for long 
enough wouldve been obvious at the outset  and so it shouldve declined the request 
without needing to run a credit check at all. But I dont think there was a specific order in 
which NatWest needed to complete its various checks, or that the bank ought necessarily to 
have reached its decision on the whole proposal based solely on the date of Rs 
incorporation. There was, as NatWest has already accepted, errors in how the bank handled Rs 
application initially. It incorrectly turned down the request without considering it fully. This 
delayed matters, but ultimately I dont think it prejudiced Rs position as the application was 
ultimately declined anyway. This did, though, put the company to some inconvenience as 
Miss R had to follow up on matters and the application process had to be restarted. Its right 
that R is compensated for this, but to that end I think the £300 that NatWest has already 
paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman