DRN-3811810
The complaint
Mr E complains that Marsh Finance Limited (Marsh) irresponsibly granted him two hire 
purchase agreements he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2018, Mr E acquired a car financed by a hire purchase agreement from Marsh. Mr E 
was required to make 34 monthly repayments of £241.11, followed by one final payment of 
£241.51 The total repayable under the agreement was £19,189,96. Mr E paid a deposit of 
£2,500 plus he used a benefit of £8,000, being the part exchange value of his previous car. 
The agreement ended in September 2020, after the car had been written off following an 
accident.
In September 2020 Mr E acquired another car from Marsh, again financed by a hire 
purchase agreement, Mr E was required again to make 36 monthly repayments, made up of 
35 payments of £340.28 followed by a final payment of £350.28. This time Mr E paid a 
deposit of £8,500, being able to fund this due to money paid out by the insurers following his 
previous car being written off. The total repayable under the agreement was £12,260.08. 
The agreement is still continuing.
Mr E had a third, earlier agreement with Marsh which he has also complained about. I have 
previously issued a jurisdiction decision in which I explained why, applying our rules, we do 
not have power the merits of that part of his complaint as it has been made too late. 
Mr E says that Marsh didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreements werent affordable for him. Marsh didnt agree. It said that 
it carried out a thorough assessment for each agreement and there was no reason for them 
not to have been accepted. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint about each of the two agreements be 
upheld. He thought Marsh ought to have realised both agreements were unaffordable for 
Mr E. 
Marsh didnt agree and said it carried out adequate checks and that Mr E had demonstrated 
a good payment record on the first agreement which helped to show the second agreement 
was likely to be affordable for him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Marsh will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
I have decided to uphold both agreements and will explain why. 
The 2018 agreement
The credit check Marsh carried out shows Mr E had a credit account that had gone into 
default in August 2015 and remained that way with a balance of around £3,300. Mr E was 
also making payments on a mortgage, had several credit card balances and also a 
catalogue account. At the time Mr E was also making use of pay day loans and other short 
term lending, often for relatively small amounts of money. I agree with our adjudicator that he 
already had around £8,000 in total debt at this point, demonstrating a real risk that Mr E 
could be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Marsh to have 
got a more thorough understanding of his financial circumstances before lending.
Marsh took steps to check that Mr E was in full time employment and find out about his 
annual and monthly income by asking for a copy of a payslip. At the time Mr E was earning 
net monthly pay of around £1,736. But from what Ive seen, Marsh didnt ask Mr E about his 
regular spending and other credit elsewhere. Without knowing what Mr Es regular 
committed expenditure was, Marsh wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of 
whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate 
checks. 
I therefore think it would have been proportionate for Marsh to have found out more about 
Mr Es committed expenditure and living costs. I cant be sure exactly what it would have 
found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to 
place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Es bank statements as to what 
would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed bank statements for three months from before the lending decision. These 
show that Mr E was making regular use of his overdraft and only going into credit for a short 
time after being paid each month. And from the details Ive seen about his day-today 
expenditure on things such as food shopping, petrol, payments to utilities, plus his payments 
towards his existing mortgage and other credit, he had total monthly outgoings of around 
£2,000. This would leave him without any disposable income. So any further lending would 
have been likely to worsen what was already a weak financial situation. 
To sum up on this agreement, I think it was clear that Mr E wasnt in a position to afford the 
repayments towards the new agreement without financial difficulty or having to borrow 
further. Had Marsh completed proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have 
discovered this too.
It follows that I dont think Marsh acted fairly by approving the finance.
The 2020 agreement
Marsh says it ran checks at the time that showed the new agreement was affordable, 
including obtaining payslip evidence from Mr E. It also took into account the way hed 
managed his previous agreement. Marsh points out that Mr E had always made his 
payments on time and not missed any payments. Marsh also says that Mr E passed most of 
the credit checks it carried out at the time and that there wasnt enough to suggest that the 
new agreement would be unaffordable for him. However, having seen Mr Es credit report, I 
would reiterate that Mr Es financial situation showed him still reliant on short term lending, 
with a significant level of credit borrowing alongside his existing mortgage payments. I again 
think that these are things that ought to have indicated that Mr E may be struggling 
financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Marsh to have got a more thorough 
understanding of his financial circumstances before lending. But from what Ive seen, Marsh 
again didnt ask Mr E about his expenditure. I dont consider that the credit check alone was 
enough to establish whether the new agreement was likely to be affordable for Mr E. So 
again for this agreement, I dont think Marsh completed proportionate checks. 
At this time Mr Es net monthly income was £1,546 - less than at the time he took out the 
previous agreement - although his required monthly payments were now significantly higher. 
I again think it would have been proportionate for Marsh to have found out more about 
Mr Es committed expenditure at the time of this further agreement. I say this taking into 
account that Mr E had around £15,000 in active debt at this point, including his use of 
overdraft, mortgage and credit card borrowing.  Whilst I cant be sure exactly what Marsh 
would have found out if it had asked, I think it was still reasonable for Marsh to place 
significant weight on the information contained in Mr Es bank statements as to what would 
most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. Mr E was 
still making extensive use of his overdraft facility and incurring daily fees for doing so. He 
was continuing to rely on his overdraft for most of the month, whilst his monthly outgoings of 
around £1,500 suggests hed have less than £50 available each month by way of disposable 
income. So from what Id seen he wouldnt have enough funds to afford the new agreement. 
Had Marsh completed proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered this 
too. It therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance for this second agreement.
I therefore again dont think that Marsh acted fairly in approving this lending. 
Putting things right  what Marsh needs to do
Mr E told our adjudicator that he wishes to keep his car as he need it for his work. I 
understand he has been keeping up to date with his payments under the current agreement. 
I therefore require Marsh to do the following in respect of each of the two agreements. 
July 2018 Agreement
As I dont think Marsh ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr E should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £17,500. Anything Mr E has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Es complaint Marsh should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr E has made in excess of £17,500, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Marsh to take off tax from this interest. Marsh must give 
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
September 2020 Agreement 
As I dont think Marsh ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it tobe able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr E should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £18,500. If Mr E hasnt paid the full cash 
price of the car, the refund due to him from the July 2018 agreement by way of 
compensation should be used towards paying off any shortfall. 
To settle Mr Es complaint Marsh should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Calculate how much Mr E has paid in total, taking into account the refund now due to 
Mr E for the 2018 agreement, which should then be set off against the total cash 
price figure of £18,500. 
If there is still a cash shortfall, Marsh should arrange an affordable and sustainable 
repayment plan for Mr E for the outstanding balance. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Marsh to take off tax from this interest. Marsh must give 
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for both agreements and direct Marsh Finance Limited to put things 
right in the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman