DRN-3586280
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Black Horse Limited has been unable to find any record of a loan 
account taken out in 1998 that he believes had PPI associated with it.
What happened
Mr W says he had three car loans, taken out in 1991, 1998 and 2000 respectively. 
Mr W had previously approached Black Horse in 2012 and 2016, who at those times were 
unable to locate any loans. However, when Mr W subsequently used a claims management 
company to make a complaint about PPI mis-selling in 2018, Black Horse was able to find 
details of the loan taken out in 2000 and it paid Mr W redress for the mis-sale of PPI 
associated with that loan.
Mr W accepts that the 1991 loan was long enough ago that he wouldnt expect Black Horse 
to still have records of it, so that does not form part of his complaint. However, he feels that, 
as Black Horse was able to find the loan that started in August 2000, it should be able to 
locate the loan taken out in 1998, particularly as the last payment on that loan was in June 
2000.
Our adjudicator explained that Black Horse had carried out the same type of searches each 
time but that it was improvements to its systems that meant that it was finally able to locate 
the last loan in 2018.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Black Horse had done anything wrong and so didnt uphold 
the complaint. Mr W disagrees with the adjudicators view and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has kept his own financial records of the loans he had, so he knows the start and end 
dates and the amount he was paying each month. Unfortunately, he doesnt have any point 
of sale documentation for the 1998 loan which might show whether he had taken out PPI or 
not.
I agree with Mr W that, given the third loan began only two months after the second loan 
finished, you might reasonably expect the second loan to show up in Black Horses 
searches. I put this to Black Horse who responded that, given the resources currently at its 
disposal for locating historic credit agreements, it should be possible to find a loan 
agreement taken out in 1998. However, when it re-ran its searches again there was still no 
trace of the loan.
Mr W considers that Black Horse should still have access to information about the 1998 
loan. To be clear, banks arent expected to hold records indefinitely and we wouldnt expect 
them to. Although Black Horse has indicated that loan agreements from 1998 are generally 
available, its possible that its records are incomplete, which is not surprising given the 
passage of time. Im satisfied that Black Horse has taken all necessary steps available to it 
to try and locate the loan. As such, I dont see what else it could do. 
I appreciate it must be very frustrating for Mr W that Black Horse has been unable to find this 
loan when it was able to find the next loan taken out shortly afterwards. However, on 
balance, Im unable to conclude that Black Horse are at fault for no longer having a record of 
the 1998 loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman