DRN-2204903
The complaint
Mr S complains that, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, he was unable to visit a branch of 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to make a payment. As a result, he says RBS will not 
now re-open his account as it had promised. He wants compensation.
What happened
RBS decided to close Mr Ss account in 2019. It then agreed with Mr S that he could pay the 
outstanding balance of around £450 in instalments. The first payment was due to be made at 
one of its branches in April 2020.
Mr S says he has had to shield during the pandemic because of his circumstances, so he 
couldnt go to the branch as agreed. RBS then told him it wouldnt arrange a new payment 
plan.
In response to Mr Ss complaint, RBS said it should never have set up a payment plan for 
him in the first place. It apologised and credited £187.42 to his account to clear the 
remaining balance. It also arranged for the account to be closed without the need for Mr S to 
take any further action. 
Our investigator thought RBS had done enough to put things right. Mr S disagreed. He 
thought he should receive significantly more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I must be clear that I cant reconsider Mr Ss complaint about RBSs decision to 
close his account. One of my ombudsman colleagues has already decided that complaint, 
and concluded that RBS was entitled to close Mr Ss account and that it hadnt treated him 
unfairly in doing so. 
I have noted Mr Ss general comments about the financial services industry. I am not the 
regulator. My role is to consider individual complaints about businesses covered by this 
services rules. So I will only deal with Mr Ss complaint about RBS as set out above in this 
decision.
I can certainly understand why Mr S wasnt prepared to go to the branch in April 2020. He 
was following government guidance to stay at home. This was particularly important for him 
given his age and health. In addition, the regulator of the financial services industry, the 
Financial Conduct Authority, had urged customers only to visit branches where absolutely 
necessary and to use other means of doing their banking where they could.
Against this background, it wouldnt be fair for Mr S to be disadvantaged because he couldnt 
get to the branch. But I dont think he has been. I think its clear that RBS isnt prepared to 
re-open his account and wouldnt have done so had Mr S made the April 2020 payment. It 
had decided to close his account because it felt its relationship with Mr S had broken down, 
and that hasnt changed.
RBS has accepted it made a mistake  insofar as it set up a payment plan in circumstances 
in which it would not usually do so. It has said sorry to Mr S. It has also paid him just under 
£200 compensation by way of a credit to his account.
I find that Mr S has been caused some confusion and stress, and he has spent some time 
on this matter which could have been avoided. However, in all the circumstances, I consider 
RBSs apology and payment of compensation are a fair and reasonable settlement, so I 
dont require RBS to do or pay any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman