DRN-2094757
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999 by post. The policy was
taken out at the same time as Mr M applied for his credit card. It gave him protection against 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. The 
bank no longer has a copy of a 1999 policy document, so Ive relied on one from the nearest 
available date for my analysis.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I'll explain why.
Mr M says he didnt know the PPI was optional, there was a pre-ticked box for insurance. 
But from what Ive seen Mr M selected PP on his credit card application form. The option to 
decline the insurance was set out with equal prominence. Neither option had a pre-printed 
tick. And Mr M signed to confirm he wanted PPI. 
So I think Bank of Scotland made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr M chose to
take it out. I can understand he might not recall this given how long ago the sale was.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt need to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to Mr M to decide whether the policy was right for him, bearing in 
mind his ability to make his credit card repayments if he was unable to work.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as
clear as it shouldve been. But Mr M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have
wanted this type of cover. It seems he wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or
limitations. He was self-employed but this policy covered self-employed people and didnt 
make it any harder for them to make a claim. And the policy was reasonably priced for the 
benefit it offered and it was apparently affordable.
Mr M wasnt entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay as he was self-employed, and he 
had no savings. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months for all successful claims. 
So, overall, based on his circumstances and the terms of the policy, I think it unlikely Mr M 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I 
think he would still have taken out the policy.
Overall, I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold the policy to Mr M. But Bank of Scotland has
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of
the PPI premium) so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Bank of Scotland
didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this
case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman