DRN-4369699
The complaint
Mr P complains about Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) who declined his claim under 
his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P held a policy with Fairmead which was valid from 16 October 2021 until 15 October 
2022. The cover was for a beach hut that Mr P purchased. Following named storms, erosion 
occurred on the land surrounding Mr Ps hut. The district council deemed the area where the 
hut was located as unsafe and unusable, which meant that Mr P was unable to have the use 
of the hut. 
Further, as there was subsidence, Mr P enquired about making a claim under his policy. 
Fairmead assessed the information that Mr P had reported and declined the claim, due to 
the policy terms and conditions. It said that as there hadnt been any direct physical damage 
caused to Mr Ps hut, under the policy there was no cover, as the claim wasnt for an insured 
peril.
Mr P raised a complaint, but Fairmead maintained its position regarding the claim, that is 
that it remained declined, as there was no damage to the hut itself. 
Mr P referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint 
and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that Fairmead declined the claim on the basis 
that there was no physical damage caused to the hut. It had based this on the policy terms 
and conditions. And those terms and conditions were clear. So, there was nothing further 
she could reasonably ask Fairmead to do. 
Fairmead accepted the view, Mr P did not. He said that our investigator hadnt fully or 
correctly considered the evidence that he had provided. That she had interpreted the policy 
terms and conditions too narrowly and he maintained that there had been damage to his hut. 
So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr P, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, and the evidence theyve provided. I think the main 
issue of this complaint is whether Fairmead was fair to have declined the claim, under the 
policy terms and conditions. 
Mr P has provided me with reports from the district council, photos of the hut and the area 
surrounding the hut, as well as comments that he wished me to consider. I should say at the 
outset, that Ive reviewed all of the evidence provided. 
Both parties have also provided me with the policy documents which I have carefully 
reviewed. I think the starting point of this complaint is to look at the policy terms and 
conditions, as well as what Mr P initially reported to Fairmead, when he enquired about 
making a claim. 
From the evidence, Mr Ps initial report to Fairmead was that the surrounding area of the hut 
was collapsing, but there was no physical damage to the hut itself. Consequently, Ive next 
considered the policy terms and conditions to see what was covered. 
The policy terms and conditions, which are essentially the agreement between the parties, 
outlines what is and is not covered. Fairmeads obligations was to provide cover under those 
terms and conditions. Mr Ps obligations (where he wished to make a claim) was to prove 
that he had a valid claim. 
On page three of the terms and conditions it gives definitions of words or phrases that 
appear in the policy wording. So, the definition of building is: 
Building (s): The property at the risk address shown in the schedule including:  its fixtures 
and fittings  solar panels permanently attached to the property which you own or for which 
you are legally responsible for. 
From this definition I think its clear that cover is to the building itself. 
It goes on to outline what is actually covered on the policy (including any exclusions). On 
page five of the policy document on the policy cover section relating to buildings it states: 
We will pay for: 
The cost of repair or replacement of the building(s) shown in the schedule including any 
fees, as a result of: 1. direct physical loss or damage arising out of a sudden unforeseen and 
unexpected event occurring outside your control. 
We will not pay for: 
a. more than the sum insured shown in the schedule less the policy excess.
b. for any claim under this section where your building has not suffered direct physical loss 
or damage.
I think this term is clear and unambiguous, in that Fairmead has outlined that it will not pay 
for any claim where the building itself, hasnt suffered from any direct physical loss or 
damage. I think the key section that relates to Mr Ps complaint, is b and that he would need 
to provide evidence of physical damage to his hut. 
I understand that Mr P has relied upon a technical report, but having reviewed that report, as 
well as the email exchange with the district council, I cant agree that there was mention of 
any damage to Mr Ps hut. I accept that there is mention of erosion to the land and a 
conclusion that the land was unstable, but this is not evidence of damage to the hut itself. 
Indeed, having reviewed the photos that Mr P provided; I cant see any physical damage to 
the hut. In addition, I've not seen any specific evidence of any physical damage to Mr Ps hut 
incurred during the policy term, nor have I seen that Mr P provided Fairmead with this 
evidence during the claim. As there is no expert or specialist reports to show that the hut had 
been damaged (which is what we would expect a consumer to show when making a claim 
under the policy) I cant agree that Fairmead were unreasonable or unfair to decline the 
claim under the policy terms and conditions. 
I acknowledge Mr Ps strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he 
referred it to our service. I understand that my findings are likely to be a disappointment to 
Mr P. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to 
show that Fairmead acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman