DRN-3319033
The complaint
Mr F complains about esure Insurance Limiteds valuation of his car after it was stolen, 
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Fs car was stolen so he made a claim to esure. The business valued the car based on 
the industry trade guides and offered £16,646 excluding the policy excess. It says this was 
the average of the guide prices it obtained, which it thought was a fair assessment of the 
cars market value. 
Mr F says he had added a number of modifications to his car, which meant it was worth 
more than esures valuation. He says he contacted esure after the modifications had been 
added and was told he didnt need to declare modifications unless it was about the cars 
engine. The modifications Mr F had made include alloy wheels, a vinyl-wrap and footwell 
lights amongst some other items. The car also had a factory fitted panoramic sunroof and 
leather/suede seats. 
Mr F says that after the theft of his car he discussed the modifications with esure again. At 
this point esure agreed to add them to his policy. This resulted in an additional charge to 
reflect the changes in risk associated with these modifications. Mr F queries why this was 
agreed, and he paid an increased premium, when the modifications had no impact on 
esures valuation. 
esure says its valuation reflects the market value of Mr Fs car at the time of the theft. It says 
the modifications Mr F made dont affect the market value of the car. But the level of risk 
increased because of the higher costs involved in repairing the car should it be damaged. 
Mr F didnt think esure had treated him fairly and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought esures approach to valuing the car had 
been fair based on the average of the industry guides. He checked the guides but found the 
additional extras and modifications didnt impact on the market value. 
Our investigator didnt think there were grounds to ask esure to pay Mr F more for his car but 
thought its offer to refund the additional premium Mr F paid was fair. 
Mr F didnt think this outcome was fair and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint in part. I wont be adding to the 
award our investigator set out and understand this will be disappointing for Mr F, but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Our approach is to consider whether esure has settled Mr Fs claim in line with the terms
and conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably. So, Ive considered the terms of the
policy and the offer made in order to determine whether esure has acted fairly.
I can see that Mr Fs policy covers him for the theft of his car. The terms set out what esure 
will pay in these circumstances.  
The policy terms say:
market value  The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell 
your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment 
of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition 
and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor 
trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when 
you purchased the car.
Our usual approach to complaints about car valuations is similar to esures and that is to 
look at the motor trade guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive 
because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The 
guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price would 
be. This considers all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage. 
If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its reasonable 
to ignore it. This depends on the circumstances and the value of the vehicle. 
esure says it took an average of the industry guide valuations to arrive at its settlement 
figure. The valuations it obtained were for £16,085, £16,553 and £17,300 from which it 
calculated an average value of £16,646. esures calculation discounted a lower valuation of 
£15,196. I think this was fair as this valuation was considerably lower than the other three.  
Ive checked the motor trade guides at the time of Mr Fs loss. This confirmed the values 
esure used are reflective of the market value of his car. 
I have thought about Mr Fs view that he paid a lot of money on modifications to his car and 
that this should be reflected in its valuation. He says he thought his car would be worth 
closer to £20,000.   
I can understand Mr Fs disappointment that hes spent a lot of money on his car, and this 
isnt reflected in esures valuation. We asked esure for its comments. It says the wrap, 
wheels and lights dont add to the market valuation. It says some people may be attracted by 
these modifications and be willing to pay more, but they also put other people off. Meaning 
they would pay less for the car.  
We take a similar view in relation to vinyl wraps and other modifications, including the interior 
decorations Mr F describes. Although some people may be willing pay more for a car that 
has been modified in this way, its value may decrease in the eyes of other potential buyers. 
So, we think its unlikely that such modifications will increase the market value of the car. 
The trade guide valuations werent impacted by the sunroof and seat cover options. So, I 
cant say that esure treated Mr F unfairly when valuing his car and providing the settlement 
offer it did.
I have also given thought to the additional premium Mr F paid following the loss of his car. 
He says he contacted esure in May 2021 to let it know he had made modifications to his car. 
But it told him he neednt declare modifications that werent related to the engine. After the theft when discussing the issue again, esure told him it would add the modifications and 
make an additional charge for the impact this wouldve had on the premium. 
We asked esure about this additional charge. It says this shouldve been raised in May 2021 
when Mr F changed the vehicle registration and informed it about the vinyl wrap. It says its 
call handler confirmed this would be added to the notes, but it wasnt added as a 
modification to the policy. It says although the addition premium charge was applicable it is 
willing to refund this as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr F had made modifications to his car which resulted in an increased insurance risk and a 
slightly higher premium. So, I think it was reasonable for esure to apply this charge, albeit 
this charge should have been applied and taken in May 2021. Because of this I think its 
offer to refund this charge is fair.  
In considering all of this, I think esure treated Mr F fairly when valuing his car and offering a 
payment based on its assessment of its market value. But it shouldve added the 
modifications to the policy and taken the additional premium earlier, so I think its fair that 
this payment is refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. esure Insurance limited should:
refund the additional premium to Mr F.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman