DRN-3552959
The complaint
Mr E complained that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited (Southern Rock) 
declined his claim following a road traffic collision. 
What happened
Mr E took out a motor insurance policy with Southern Rock in May 2019. He was covered to 
use his car for social, domestic and pleasure purposes. 
Mr E was involved in a car accident in November 2019. He submitted a claim to Southern 
Rock. He told it he was travelling to his place of work to collect some files he had left there 
when the accident happened. 
Southern Rock told Mr E his policy didnt provide cover for travelling to his place of work, so 
it declined the claim. It later told him that it had decided to settle with the third party insurers 
on a 50/50 basis and that he would need to cover costs of over £3,000. 
Mr E complained to Southern Rock about it declining to cover the claim. He said it was only 
on very rare occasions, such as on the day of the accident when he needed to pick up some 
files, that he used his car to travel into work. He said it was cheaper and more convenient for 
him to catch a train. Mr E said when he took out the policy he didnt think he fitted the 
description of commuting, given how regularly he used public transport.  
Mr E thought Southern Rock should have followed the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) when dealing with this matter.
Southern Rock responded to Mr Es complaint in August 2020. It said when Mr E took out 
the policy online, he was asked to select the type of cover he wanted, and he selected 
social only. Southern Rock said it cannot upgrade the level of cover after an accident to the 
level of cover that a consumer intended to purchase. It said it was Mr Es responsibility to 
choose the appropriate level of cover. 
Mr E then complained to this Service. Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He said 
Southern Rock should have relied on CIDRA when dealing with Mr Es claim, as it was the 
relevant law here. Our investigator concluded that while Mr E made a misrepresentation 
about how he used his car, this was not a qualifying misrepresentation and so Southern 
Rock wasnt entitled to decline his claim. He suggested the Southern Rock deal with Mr Es 
claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy and pay Mr E £200 compensation. 
Southern Rock didnt agree with the outcome and so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Southern Rock said it declined this claim because Mr Es policy didnt cover him for 
commuting to and from work, and this was what Mr E was doing when the accident 
happened. Having seen the relevant policy documents, I can see that this is the case  
Mr Es policy provided cover when his car was used for social, domestic and pleasure 
purposes. So Southern Rock said it didnt think CIDRA should be used here, as its simply 
the case that Mr E didnt have the right sort of cover in place when he had the accident. The 
question here is whether Southern Rock acted fairly when it took this approach, and I dont 
think it did. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies 
provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For a misrepresentation to be qualifying it would have to have made a 
difference to the terms the insurer would have offered.
Whether or not a misrepresentation has been made depends on the question asked at the 
application stage. If a consumer is simply asked to select what cover they want, then it would 
not be fair to use CIDRA, as the information provided by the consumer isnt used by the 
insurer to decide what cover to offer. But if the consumer is asked what they use their car for 
and they make a misrepresentation about its use, then CIDRA applies. 
In Mr Es case, as part of his application, he was asked What do you use the car for?. 
He was then provided with options to choose from, and he chose social. So Mr E wasnt 
asked to select what cover he wanted, he was asked a question about how he uses his car 
and, as outlined in more detail below, I think he answered this incorrectly. It is this type of 
situation that CIDRA is in place to address  where a policy holder has been asked a 
question and answered incorrectly. So Im satisfied Southern Rock should have used CIDRA 
when assessing Mr Es claim.   
The first step when applying CIDRA is to decide whether a misrepresentation was made. 
And Im satisfied one was made here. Mr E was asked a clear and unambiguous question 
about how he uses his car and he provided incorrect information. I can see that other options 
were offered in answer to the question about what Mr E uses his car for, and one of these 
was social and commuting. I think Mr E should have chosen social and commuting as his 
answer, as he occasionally uses his car to travel to and from his place of work. I can also 
see that guidance for answering the question was provided, which described social only as 
covers normal day to day driving, but not driving to or from a place of work. While I 
appreciate Mr E saying he doesnt think occasional travel into work is considered 
commuting, I think its clear that social only does not cover any travel into work. So Im 
satisfied Mr E didnt take reasonable care when answering this question and misrepresented 
his circumstances. 
The next step is to look at whether this was a qualifying misrepresentation  so if Southern 
Rock had known at the application stage that Mr E used his car for commuting, would this 
have made a difference to the policy offered by it to him, whether in relation to the cost or the 
terms. 
Southern Rock has said it would have provided commuting cover to Mr E at no extra cost if it 
had known he also used his car to travel to and from work. So if Mr E had taken reasonable 
care and answered the question correctly, it wouldnt have made a difference to Southern 
Rock. This means Mr E didnt make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA and, in 
these circumstances, Southern Rock wasnt entitled to decline Mr Es claim in the way it did.Im satisfied that a fair outcome here is for Southern Rock to reconsider Mr Es claim, subject 
to the remaining terms of the policy, as if he had selected cover for commuting. I understand 
that Mr E hasnt been able to afford to have repairs carried out to his car and so has been 
inconvenienced by having to drive around in a damaged car. For these reasons, I agree with 
the amount of £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience suggested by our 
Investigator. 
My final decision
I require Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited to reconsider Mr Es claim in line with 
the remaining terms of the policy, as if he had selected cover for commuting, and pay Mr E 
£200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman