DRN-3538740
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds valuation of their 
car when they claimed under their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W were in an accident that wasnt their fault. Admiral decided the car was 
uneconomical to repair and offered them £100,500 for its market value, less the policy 
excess. Admiral didnt agree. They said their car was in exceptional condition and still had a 
manufacturer warranty, so their replacement car had to have that too, which made the 
market value higher. 
The investigator didnt recommend that their complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Mr W and Mrs W Admirals valuation was fair and reasonable. They felt that Admiral, and 
we, didnt properly understand the comparables about their cars specification and mileage. 
Admiral didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained to Mr W and Mrs W our approach regarding complaints about car 
valuations. We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether 
or not the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations 
in the trade guides. These guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely 
selling prices and, although they dont have access to actual selling prices, they use 
averages and auction prices to work out what likely selling prices would have been at the 
time of the incident. We believe they give a reasonable and independent guide and take 
account of a number of factors including mileage, condition, and any extra features. Overall, 
we find them more persuasive than adverts. So the issue for me to decide is whether 
Admiral have acted reasonably in deciding the value of Mr W and Mrs Ws car.
Admirals policy say they will pay the cars market value which is defined as  The cost of 
replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage, and condition 
based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term 'market' 
refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from industry 
recognised motor trade guides.
The investigator checked that Admiral had valued Mr W and Mrs Ws car in accordance with 
our guidance, considering its model, additional features, and the actual mileage. She looked 
at three UK price guides that collate the sales information across the UK to compare their 
prices with Admirals offer. Usually if the insurer has made an offer within the ranges of these 
valuations, we wouldnt usually ask them to increase the offer made.
Admiral arrived at their valuation by looking at two guides. A and B. We also use guide C. 
The investigators results were :
 
Guide A : £10,495
Guide B : £9,340
Guide C C: £7,474
Admiral had got a Guide A valuation of £10,500. This type of small difference can occur and 
if so,  we use the higher figure, which is more favourable to the consumer. So we treat Guide 
A as £10,500. Also, where one of the guides is significantly lower than the others, again in 
the consumers interest, we discount it as it would adversely affect the average. So we take 
the average of Guides A and B, which is £9, 920. We would consider that to be a fair 
settlement offer. As Admirals offer of 10,500 is more than that, and is also the highest of the 
guide amounts, the investigator considered that their valuation offer was reasonable. I think 
thats the correct approach and I agree with the investigators view. Mr W and Mrs W felt the 
investigator was relying on broad brush tools that they didnt believe accurately reflected the 
value of their car. However that is our published valuation process, and Admiral have 
followed that.
Mr W and Mrs W thought that insurance was meant to put them back in the same position as 
they we were in prior to the accident. That to them meant a car in immaculate condition, 
which was still covered by a manufacturer warranty, and had a full service history. They said 
this meant that they had to buy a replacement car from the same manufacturer, which 
limited their options and made the replacement purchase price higher. They also felt that the 
valuation didnt take into account their recently bought new tyres, a timing belt and water 
pump.  But as the investigator explained, we dont think that the market valuation should 
include the warranty as it was a benefit associated with the car, and generally we think that 
new tyres and other parts are about maintenance, which keeps a vehicle in retail 
condition, rather than increasing its value. So we dont think that they make an overall 
difference to the guides valuation. 
Mr W and Mrs W showed us adverts to show they couldnt get a like for like replacement 
car for what Admiral had offered, but I dont think they support the valuation amount that they 
are looking for. In any event, we think that the amounts sellers and dealerships advertise for 
cars dont properly reflect their value, because cars usually sell for less than the advertised 
price. I dont think that adverts prove the actual selling price any car was sold for.
 
I appreciate that it must have been frustrating for or Admiral Mr W and Mrs W to have lost 
their car through no fault of their own, but I think that Admirals market valuation is fair and 
reasonable and in line with our published approach, and so I dont require them to do any 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive discussed above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
