DRN-3945925
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as D complains that Santander UK Plc treated them unfairly 
when theyd needed financial assistance and also provided incorrect information about their 
complaint to this service.
 
The complaint is brought on Ds behalf by their directors Mr and Mrs W. 
What happened
D held a business account with Santander.
 
D told us:
They had applied for lending with Santander under the Coronavirus Business 
Interruption Loan (CBIL) scheme in May 2020 but were incorrectly informed they 
were ineligible for the scheme. They then approached a different lender and received 
a £250,000 CBIL in December 2020.
They believe Santander should have applied for the CBIL on Ds behalf in May 2020 
and because it didnt do so, D suffered a consequential loss from not being able to 
invest in the company as they would have liked due to less cashflow. 
After theyd been declined the CBIL, they asked Santander if it could provide other 
financial assistance. The bank agreed over the phone to provide an interest-free 
overdraft facility but then didnt make this available, so theyd incurred extra costs.
When they brought their complaint to this service, Santander incorrectly informed us 
that D had been offered a £250,000 loan under the CBILS and had been given a 
£50,000 Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
Santander told us:
It had made a mistake in telling this service that D had received a BBL, the company 
did have another loan, but this wasnt taken out through the BBL scheme. 
It hadnt offered D an interest free overdraft this had simply been a hypothetical 
option that had been mentioned when discussing a previous complaint. However, it 
had offered D a term loan for £250,000 in October 2020 after D said it needed more 
funding to undertake maintenance repairs. 
It had offered D a refund of £3,808.71 plus 8% interest to cover the costs they had 
incurred from using their overdraft with the bank instead of the CBIL they would have 
preferred  and were eligible for  between May and December 2020. 
It accepted D had been incorrectly told initially that they couldnt have a CBIL, 
however once it clarified the scheme in more detail, it had discussed this with D  but 
they chose to continue with another provider. But it acknowledged it could have 
reviewed this option sooner and offered D £500 compensation for the inconvenience 
this had caused. 
Our investigator thought Santanders offer was fair. She said that Santander wasnt able to 
apply for the CBIL on Ds behalf as thats not how the scheme worked. However, the bank 
acknowledged that it should have identified D could apply for a CBIL with it sooner and had 
offered to refund the financial loss incurred from the difference in interest rates paid by D 
and this along with the compensation for having to apply elsewhere was enough to put 
things right. She also acknowledged that D was claiming for a consequential loss, however 
she wasnt persuaded this had been caused by Santander based on the timeline D had 
provided. 
D didnt agree. They said that as a result of Santanders actions, they werent able to take on 
more pupils which based on average timescales the pupils were with D meant a loss of 
£500,000 profit. They also said the bank had agreed to a £150,000 interest free overdraft 
until their mortgage with the bank was in place (this has been dealt with under a separate 
complaint reference) but they only used the overdraft to finance wages when needed  had 
they had the CBIL in May when theyd applied, they would have had a year without having to 
make a payment and also the funds to take on students at that time. They also dont think 
Santander met their lending obligations as they hadnt been given the right product for their 
needs and were unhappy with the information mistakes which had caused the directors 
distress.
  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D reiterated that Santander told them they could have the £150,000 overdraft on an interest 
free basis. However, this has already been addressed under a separate complaint reference, 
so I wont be commenting on this again. The key findings of this decision relate to the CBIL 
and whether Santander treated D fairly when they initially approached the bank to apply for 
this. 
However, theres not much more that I can add to what our investigator already said. 
D told us that Santander treated them unfairly as it told them they werent eligible for a CBIL 
when they initially approached the bank for lending, and they believe this was done for profit 
purposes. But Im not persuaded thats the case. Its not disputed by either party that 
Santander could have offered D a CBIL sooner than it did, however Ive looked at the 
evidence from both parties and based on what Ive seen I think its more likely that this was a 
misunderstanding of how D was classified as a business under what was a new government 
scheme, rather than the bank looking to provide D with more costly funding. 
I say this because the overdraft provided to D, although at a higher rate was unsecured, and 
only payable on the funds used. However the CBIL offered a government backed guarantee 
and would have received interest on the drawn down balance in line with the scheme rules. 
By offering D a CBIL, this would have meant less risk to the bank, given the guarantee of 
repayment on the full balance, compared to the overdraft where the bank only received 
payment on the funds as they were used by D. 
D says that because they werent given the CBIL when requested, they werent able to 
benefit from the year of deferred repayments and they also lost around £500,000 profit. 
However, Im not persuaded that D would have lost that level of profit because Mr W told us 
that D can take on additional students at any point throughout the year due to the nature of 
their business. So even if D werent able to take on the extra students in June  assuming 
the CBIL had been agreed by then  they could have taken on the students in December 
and the income would have started from this point. So D wouldnt have lost the subsequent four and a half years income (based on the average term quoted by D) which Mr W says the 
company lost. 
I recognise D says that had they received the CBIL in June 2020, they would have received 
an interest free period of 12 months and not had to make any repayments at that time either. 
However, its not for me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake, and I have to take 
into consideration that D was still able to receive the CBIL from another lender in December 
2020 - and therefore still have use of the scheme terms, such as the interest free period  
albeit six months later than they wanted. 
I acknowledge that D was caused inconvenience by this as they had to look for alternative 
ways to finance the company at that time. But Ive seen that Santander did provide D with an 
overdraft facility from March 2020 (when Mr W says D first approached the bank about the 
CBIL) so they did still have financing available which was drawn down in £50,000 tranches 
when they needed it. Santander has also offered to refund the overdraft interest that D 
wouldnt have paid had they been granted a CBIL in May 2020 as they should have been, 
until the date they took out the CBIL with the other lender. This means that D wouldnt have 
incurred a direct financial loss from the delay in receiving a CBIL. So I think Santander has 
done enough here to put this right.
Mr W also told us that there wasnt really a discussion with the bank about how much 
financing D needed at the time the £150,000 overdraft was provided, because they were 
also looking at another loan which was expected to be received shortly. I recognise that D 
says they told Santander in July 2020 that they would need further funding if this loan wasnt 
received as expected. But Ive looked at the email and I cant see that there was any further 
contact with the bank to request any further funding until the end of September 2020 when D 
said they needed a further £100,000 of funding to undertake urgent repairs. 
Ive also seen that a new loan was agreed within a couple of weeks to provide this  but D 
chose not to proceed with the loan but to look elsewhere for finance. So I cant fairly hold 
Santander responsible for D not having sufficient funds to take in more students if the 
company chose to seek alternative financing elsewhere. 
So whilst I agree that Santander could have told D more quickly that they were eligible for 
the CBIL, Im not persuaded this led to the losses which D says they have incurred. 
Therefore given all the circumstances of Ds complaint, I think Santanders offer to refund D 
the difference in the interest they paid on the overdraft compared to what they would have 
paid on the CBIL plus interest at 8% per year simple, for the loss of opportunity along with 
£500 for the inconvenience caused is a fair way to resolve this part of Ds complaint.
Mr W told us that the directors had been caused distress and inconvenience due to 
Santanders actions. But this complaint has been brought on Ds behalf, so D is the eligible 
complainant. This means that I cant look at any distress or inconvenience caused to the 
directors in a personal capacity. Limited companies like D, as corporate bodies rather than 
individuals, are not capable of suffering distress, which means I can only look at the 
inconvenience caused to D by Santanders actions. 
D says that Santander behaved unprofessionally when it told this service that theyd 
received a BBL. However, Im satisfied that this was a genuine error by the bank as it 
referred to Ds existing loan as a BBL. Furthermore, this error was clarified before this 
service made a finding on Ds complaint and Santander has apologised for this error. So Im 
satisfied thats enough to put this right. 
Putting things right
I think its clear that Santanders error in declining Ds request to apply for a CBIL caused 
them inconvenience. To put things right I think Santander should refund the difference in the 
interest D paid on the overdraft compared to what they would have paid on the CBIL plus interest at 8% per year simple, along with £500 compensation  both of which it has already 
offered.
My final decision
Santander UK PLC has already made an offer to refund D the difference in interest they paid 
on their overdraft and what they would have paid on the CBIL plus interest at 8% per year 
simple and pay D £500 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Santander UK should refund D in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman