DRN-2802191
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited declined his critical 
illness claim. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2011 Mr K set up a life and critical illness assurance policy with Royal London. It provides 
£108,000 of level cover over a 20-year term. 
Mr K suffered a heart attack in October 2017 and so he made a critical illness claim under 
his policy. Royal London declined the claim. They said while thered been myocardial 
infarction (heart attack) diagnosis, Mr Ks troponin T levels didnt exceed the policy 
requirement for a claim to be paid. 
Mr K appealed this decision and referred to comments made by his consultant in relation to 
the troponin T policy criteria. The consultant said the high sensitivity troponin T assay now in 
use is a different generation (newer) than the previous troponin T assay, which was not high 
sensitivity. He added that the results using the new assay are not directly comparable to the 
previous generation. 
Royal Londons position didnt change and so a complaint was raised by Mr K. Royal London 
didnt uphold the complaint. In short, they said:
The policy definition of a heart attack, which is there to ensure only heart attacks of a 
specified severity are covered, requires troponin T levels to exceed 1.0ng/ml. 
Mr Ks troponin T readings of 18 and 19 October 2017 were 32 ng/L, 35 ng/L and 39 
ng/L. Translating the highest reading of 39 ng/L to ng/ml (the policy definition unit 
measurement) becomes 0.039 ng/ml. This is below the 1.0 ng/ml policy definition 
requirement for a heart attack claim to be paid.
Their Chief Medical Officer (CMO) considered the medical evidence and Mr Ks 
consultants comments. The CMOs opinion was that while all assays in use have 
marginally different performance figures, it was highly unlikely that a different assay 
would have generated radically different results. And that in Mr Ks case, it was 
estimated the difference would have to be over 20 times higher for the condition to 
meet the policy definition. 
 
The matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
but she didnt think Royal London had unfairly declined the claim. She noted that Mr Ks 
consultant had highlighted a difference in the types of assays but explained that insurers are 
entitled to make a business decision on the terms of cover they are willing to provide. And, in 
Mr Ks case, his troponin T levels hadnt reached the required level as per the definition of a 
heart attack in his policy terms.
Mr K disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly wish to reassure Mr K that I dont underestimate the seriousness of his condition. But 
what I must consider here is whether Royal London has fairly declined the claim. I realise 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr K but, having done so, I think they have and for 
similar reasons to that of our investigator. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms set out what Mr K is covered for. And these say Royal London will pay a 
critical illness claim if, during the term of the cover, the person covered is diagnosed with any 
of the critical illnesses listed in Section D (definitions of the words we use). This section 
defines Heart attack  of specified severity as:
Death of heart muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has resulted in all of the 
following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
new characteristic electrocardiographic changes,
the characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes or troponins recorded at the following 
levels or higher:
Troponin T > 1.0 ng/ml
AccuTnl > 0.5 ng/ml or equivalent threshold with other Troponin I methods. 
The evidence must show a definite acute myocardial infarction. 
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
other acute coronary syndromes including but not limited to angina. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr K suffered a heart attack. However, the policy only covers those of a 
severity as defined above. So, for Mr Ks claim to be paid, his heart attack must meet these 
requirements. Ive therefore considered if thats the case here.
One of the requirements is that troponin T levels  which is an indicator of a heart attack - 
must be above 1.0 ng/ml. And Mr Ks readings were between 32 and 39 ng/L. And so, the 
highest reading of 39 ng/L, when converted to ng/ml, would 0.039 ng/ml which is below the 
policy definition threshold.
Mr K has however argued that, as per his consultants comments, the assays used to 
measure troponin T levels have changed and so arent comparable. Mr K therefore doesnt 
think it is fair for his claim to be declined on this basis. 
Ive given this careful consideration. But, while Ive noted Mr Ks strength of feeling about 
this, Im not persuaded the use of newer high sensitivity assays opposed to the methods 
used when the policy was taken out means his claim has been unfairly declined. This is 
because although the assay method has changed, allowing for a more accurate diagnosis, 
the underlying enzyme being measured as a way of identifying whether a heart attack has 
occurred remains as Troponin T. Royal Londons CMO has also explained that, while assays will have marginally different 
performance figures, its highly unlikely that the newer method wouldve generated radically 
different results. And certainly not to the degree that it would have to be more than 20 times 
higher to reach the policy definition requirement. So, while Mr K did suffer from a heart 
attack it wasnt of the severity required for a claim to be paid. 
Mr K has also referred to how the NHS measures a positive Troponin T level and provided 
policy literature that says Royal London wont require a minimum Troponin T level when 
considering a heart attack claim. Ive considered this but, while the NHS may consider a 
lower Troponin T level to be positive, the measure that is relevant here is that which is set 
out in Mr Ks policy terms (>1.0 ng/ml). And the literature Mr K has provided to support his 
claim isnt related to his policy. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr K is hoping for but the policy terms - which he agreed to in 
2011  set out what he is, and isnt, covered for. And the heart attack he suffered wasnt of 
the severity required under the policy terms. It therefore follows that I dont think Royal 
London has acted unfairly, or outside the policy terms, by declining the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman