DRN-2770535
The complaint
Ms S has complained that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA 
Financial Services (BMWFS) allowed her to enter into a hire purchase agreement to acquire 
a car. 
What happened
In July 2019 Ms S acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. As part of 
the deal Ms S part exchanged another car she had with a different finance company. 
It looks like the supplying dealer paid Ms S £17,000 for the car she part exchanged. She 
owed around £21,500 to the finance company. So there was about £4,500 of negative equity 
brought to the deal. 
The car that Ms S acquired under the hire purchase agreement with BMWFS cost around 
£20,000. This meant that in total she needed to provide the supplying dealer with around 
£24,500 for the car that she acquired and the negative equity for the car she part 
exchanged. 
BMWFS financed Ms S around £22,500 under a five-year hire purchase agreement. And it 
lent her around £2,000 under a five-year fixed sum loan agreement. I understand the car 
was registered to Ms S partner at the time  who was the main user of it. 
It looks like Ms S contacted BMWFS in February 2020 to ask for a settlement figure because 
I believe she was splitting up with her partner at the time, and so they wanted to know what 
the situation was. I understand at this point Ms S told BMWFS she was not insured on the 
car, and it was registered to her partner. And BMWFS told her this wasnt allowed under the 
agreement. So, from what I can see, Ms S partner intended to pass the registration to Ms S 
to resolve the issue. BMWFS notes also say around this time Ms S explained since she was 
splitting up with her partner she was concerned because she couldnt afford the finance any 
more. 
Things took a turn when Ms S requested the sales documentation. She said that upon 
reviewing the documents she noticed the supplying dealer had supplied a copy of a driving 
licence in her name that wasnt hers. She says she held a provisional licence but the licence 
the supplying dealer had copied was a full driving licence. She also said the picture on the 
licence wasnt hers. 
She also complained the supplying dealer had registered the car to her partner, when it 
should have been registered to her  as BMWFS customer. 
Finally, she complained that she didnt sign the fixed sum loan agreement for around £2,000. 
She also says she later found out that BMWFS wouldnt have accepted her as a customer 
had it known she only held a provisional licence. So she thinks something has gone very 
wrong and that the dealership has committed fraud and set up a fronted agreement in order 
to achieve the deal. 
BMWFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said it hadnt found the supplying dealer had acted 
fraudulently. And that if the deal was fronted it would request the cars registration is 
transferred to the finance holders name. It didnt think unwinding the deal would be 
appropriate. 
More recently, I understand the car was repossessed because Ms S had stopped making 
payments from March 2020. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt recommend BMWFS take any 
action. She said the supplying dealer had explained it had seen and verified the driving 
licence. And that shed seen a copy of the licence taken by the supplying dealer and the date 
it was signed and certified by the sales person was the date Ms S entered into the hire 
purchase agreement. She didnt think there was enough evidence to say the supplying 
dealer fraudulently provided the full driving licence. She agreed that BMWFS wouldnt have 
offered finance in this way on the basis of a provisional licence. But she noted it wasnt in 
dispute Ms S wanted to enter into the agreement to acquire the car. 
Our investigator also considered the fixed sum loan. She noted Ms S had acknowledged she 
was aware shed have two payments to make. And that Ms S could have queried this sooner 
if she had any concerns. She said the fixed sum loan was taken out in order to clear the 
negative equity on Ms S previous car. So she didnt think BMWFS needed to take any 
action in relation to it.  
Finally, our investigator turned to the fact the car wasnt registered to Ms S. But she thought 
Ms S was happy with the arrangement for her partner at the time to be the person that used 
the car and be the registered keeper. And she thought that if there was an issue, the car 
couldve been transferred back in to Ms S name. But she didnt think the agreement should 
be unwound as a result of the way it was registered. 
Ms S didnt agree. In summary, she highlighted shed not received any pre-contract 
agreement to look over. And she said the picture within the full driving licence wasnt of her 
and that it had a different expiry date. She reiterated the cars registration should not have 
been put into someone elses name. She also complained again about BMWFS response to 
the complaint.
As things couldnt be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms S acquired the car using a regulated hire purchase agreement. And our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreement. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA) says BMWFS can be held responsible for antecedent negotiations carried 
out by the credit broker  in this case the supplying dealer. 
I think the main things I need to decide are whether BMWFS needs to take any action in 
relation to:
1. The driving licence issue.2. The fixed sum loan agreement and pre-contract documentation. 
3. The car not being registered to Ms S. 
Turning to the first point. Like our investigator pointed out, its difficult to know whats 
happened with the driving licence. On the one hand, Ms S has shown she only has a 
provisional licence and has provided a copy of it. And on the other hand the supplying dealer 
has said it took a copy of the licence that was given to it. The recollections are conflicting. So 
I think there are only two viable explanations for whats happened:
Ms S provided the full licence.
Ms S provided the provisional licence and the supplying dealer forged a full licence 
using some of the details. 
The copy of the licence from the supplying dealer was signed on the day Ms S entered in to 
the agreement. So I think it would be unlikely the supplying dealer wouldve been able to 
forge the full licence straight away. But I take Ms S point that it may have forged it at a later 
date. 
I find it concerning that the dealership has said its process is to use an ultraviolet light and 
then certify it and send a copy to the lender, and that a fake licence wasnt spotted  
particularly given the expiry dates didnt match and the picture wasnt of Ms S. 
Ill never know what happened here. But, like our investigator has pointed out, its not in 
dispute that Ms S wanted to enter into the agreement. Had her argument been that her 
identity had been stolen and that shed not agreed to enter into the contract then there would 
be grounds to say she shouldnt be held liable for it. But shes not saying that. Shes saying 
she did agree to enter the contract, but the documentation was tampered with so that shed 
be accepted by BMWFS  because it wouldnt have offered her finance otherwise. 
I have to bear in mind that its not impossible for someone with a provisional licence to enter 
into a car finance agreement in order for someone else to use the goods that are being 
financed. Indeed  that sounds like what happened with Ms S previous car. Also, while I 
appreciate its a different scenario to Ms S, BMWFS itself has said it may have in fact 
considered offering finance to a customer with a provisional licence if there was a guarantor 
and the customer provided documentation showing when their driving test was. So the fact 
Ms S only has a provisional licence doesnt automatically mean she could never get a car 
finance agreement. 
Considering everything above, its not in dispute that BMWFS offered to contract with Ms S. 
And its not in dispute that Ms S agreed to contract with BMWFS. The acceptance of a 
customers driving status is a question for BMWFS. So, in this case, I dont think I have the 
grounds to say it acted unfairly by deciding not to end the contract on the basis of the issue 
with the licence. 
Turning to the second point. Ms S has said she didnt sign the fixed sum loan agreement. 
And that she was willing for a handwriting expert to look in to things. But Ms S has indicated 
she was aware there would be two payments shed have to make. And she hasnt made the 
argument she wasnt aware there was negative equity for her part exchanged car. So taking 
my calculations into account I dont think Ms S has been asked to pay something back she 
didnt fairly owe. That is, she was asked to pay the finance for the car, and the negative 
equity from her previous car. 
Im not a handwriting expert. But I would say that to the untrained eye, the signatures on the 
hire purchase and fixed sum loan agreement both look very similar, and indeed look similar 
to Ms S provisional licence. But even if that werent the case, I think the key thing here is that Ms S has acknowledged she would have two payments to make. The finance and credit 
was fairly owed by her. 
Ms S also said she didnt receive the pre-contract information. Again, Ill never know for sure 
what happened. But for the same reasons, I think, on balance, she did agree to enter into 
the finance agreement and credit agreement on the terms given. So I dont find I have the 
grounds to say BMWFS should have offered to end the agreement on the basis of Ms S 
arguments about the signature on the fixed sum loan agreement or the pre contract 
information.
I turn now to the final point. Ms S is unhappy the car wasnt registered to her. And here I can 
understand her concerns. From what Ive been told, the car was registered to her partner at 
the point of supply. 4(g) of the terms and conditions of the agreement set out that you (Ms S) 
must:
keep the Vehicle in your possession and under your control and not sell, rent or 
dispose of it or attempt to do so or allow someone other than you to become 
registered at the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency as the Vehicles registered 
keeper
And 5(b) of the terms and conditions set out:
you must pay for an maintain comprehensive insurance cover for the Vehicles full 
value against all insurable risks (including fire, theft, damage, loss in transit, seizure 
and the cost of repatriation if the Vehicle is taken outside of the UK)
Ms S wasnt the registered keeper, and she wasnt insured on the car. So, like shes pointed 
out, she was breaking the terms of the agreement the moment her partner (presumably) 
drove it away. Moreover, when Ms S spoke to BMWFS in February 2020 and told it she 
wasnt the registered keeper it told her she was breaching the agreement and that it might 
start taking steps to default the agreement if the breach wasnt remedied. This would have 
likely been very concerning for her. Given it looks like Ms S freely told BMWFS she wasnt 
the registered keeper of the car it doesnt look like she was trying to pull the wool over its 
eyes, I think its more likely that she didnt realise shed done anything wrong. Indeed  it 
sounds like shed had the same arrangement with the previous finance company on the car 
she part-exchanged. 
If the supplying dealer (as BMWFSs agent) set up the agreement and registered the car in 
Ms S partners name and if BMWFS were looking to default the agreement because of that 
 it wouldnt sound very fair on Ms S to my mind. But it looks like Ms S agreed to arrange to 
get the car registered to her in February 2020. And, aside from that, from looking at BMWFS 
contact notes, it said it would not issue a default notice because Ms S and her partner lived 
together at the point of supply, so it didnt consider it a fronted deal. 
Taking all this into account, I think it wouldve been a problem here if BMWFS was looking to 
default the agreement on the basis of the way it was set up by its agent  the supplying 
dealer. But thats not what happened. I think Ms S was struggling to pay the agreement 
since she split up from her partner that used, and possibly paid for the car. It looks like she 
told BMWFS her partner had transferred the registration of the car back to her. And BMWFS 
was happy with that. So I dont think I can say that BMWFS should have offered to end the 
agreement on the basis of the car originally being registered to Ms S partners name.
Summary
Whats in dispute is whether Ms S signed the fixed sum loan, and where the fake driving licence originated from. But whats not in dispute is that Ms S agreed to acquire the car and 
enter into a contract with BMWFS. She knew she had two payments to make. And she 
agreed to have her partner at the time as the registered keeper of the car  as per her 
previous arrangement. 
As BMWFS wasnt looking to default the agreement on the basis of how it was set up, Im 
not going to direct it to take any action. Things have now moved on. Ms S stopped paying 
towards the agreement. This could have been because she refused given the dispute, or 
because she couldnt afford it. Or it might have been a combination of both of these things. 
The car has been repossessed since the complaint has been with us. Id remind BMWFS to 
treat Ms S with forbearance and due consideration when discussing repayment of any 
outstanding liability. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman