DRN-3818992
The complaint
Mr U, on behalf of the estate of Mrs U complains Barclays Bank Plc failed to transfer an 
investment ISA to Mr U using the in-specie Additional Permitted Subscription (APS).
What happened
In 2018, Mr U contacted Barclays and provided them with the required documentation to 
notify them of Mrs Us sad passing.
Mr Us intention was to transfer Mrs Us investment ISA to himself in-specie using the APS 
and he states he provided Barclays with a copy of the Grant of Probate (GOP) during a 
further visit to a branch in July 2018.
Barclays later received a signed APS application from Mr U in March 2019 but said he was 
out of time to do an in-specie transfer as this had to be done within 180 days of the 
beneficial ownership of the investment passing to him  in this case when the GOP was 
issued.
Mr U complained to Barclays disagreeing he was out of time as hed provided a copy of the 
GOP in branch well before the deadline.
Barclays remained of the opinion Mr U was out of time. They said whilst theyd been unable 
to locate the GOP provided in July 2018, it was the receipt of the signed APS application 
after the deadline, in March 2019, which had caused the matter to arise.
After further investigation Barclays upheld Mr Us complaint because they thought they 
couldve provided him a better explanation to bring a resolution to his issues sooner. By way 
of an apology for this Barclays paid Mr U £200. They also paid him an additional £100 to 
recognise the delay in dealing with the complaint.
Barclays also confirmed Mr U still had the option to utilise the APS up to the value of Mrs Us 
ISA at the time of her passing  but that this would be a cash transfer as opposed to any 
holdings being transferred in-specie.   
Mr U remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things but thought Barclays had followed the terms of 
the APS correctly, so he didnt think theyd acted unfairly by saying the in-specie transfer 
request had been made out of time. 
Our Investigator also felt Barclays offer of compensation was fair and reasonable to reflect 
distress and inconvenience caused by the service theyd provided after the APS transfer was 
refused.
Mr U disagreed with our Investigators opinion that £300 was an adequate amount of 
compensation. He also requested confirmation of the actual value of Mrs Us ISA on the date 
of her death and for his choice of option to be implemented.
Mr U was further unhappy with Barclays search to locate the GOP he delivered to their 
branch as he considers their denial of receipt to be an attempt to discredit his integrity.
Another of our investigators took a look at Mr Us concerns but his opinion remained the 
same as that of the original investigation.
As no resolution could be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note whilst Mr U was initially unhappy with the compensation offered by Barclays, hes 
since returned the £300 they paid him and has told our Service his submission is no longer 
about compensation  rather it is about the restoration of his credibility regarding the delivery 
of the GOP to Barclays within the APS qualifying period.
Because of this Ive not commented on the matter of compensation further and Im not 
making an award for Barclays to pay this amount to Mr U again. Instead, I will focus on the 
three outstanding matters Mr U has highlighted to us. Ill address these below. If Mr U 
decides he would like the amount Barclays offered to him he should them directly.
I recognise its possible I may not be able to fully establish the events regarding the delivery 
of the GOP - but Im also conscious that over four years have passed since then. Ultimately, 
I need to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities  and this is what Ive done using 
all of the information provided by both parties to the complaint.
Its clear there is a dispute as to when Barclays received a copy of the GOP from Mr U. 
Mr U states he delivered a copy of the GOP to a Barclays branch in July 2018, and I have no 
reason to doubt him  but it is clear the document did not then go on to reach the intended 
department.
I can see in a previous response Barclays said they had no record of receiving the GOP 
referring to Mr U having supplied this in May 2018. I dont think this was helpful and caused 
some confusion as Mr U clearly stated it was in July the document was delivered.
I cant say exactly why the document wasnt received by the intended department in July 
2018, but Id like to assure Mr U this is in no way a question mark over his credibility  I 
simply wasnt present. And due to the passage of time thats since passed I dont see any 
reasonable possibility of it now being found.
However, I think its important I explain clearly it wasnt the non-receipt of the GOP which 
meant Mr U missed the deadline to transfer his late wifes ISA in-specie using the APS. 
Instead, it was the date they received his application to complete the in-specie transfer which 
was signed and received in March 2019 which meant he was out of time. This is because 
the application was received later than 180 days after the GOP was issued.
It is this that I believe Barclays were trying to explain in their letter of 28 August 2020. I can 
see their use of the word filed has confused matters somewhat here however Im satisfied 
what the sentiment was attempting to explain is that regardless of when the GOP was 
received, like Ive explained above, it is when the signed APS application was received that 
has caused the issue of the in-specie transfer being out of time.I think Barclays couldve explained what had happened more clearly and sooner to Mr U and 
theyve since recognised this. 
I consider it to be in the best interests of all parties to resolve this matter promptly now 
considering the transfer of the late Mrs Us ISA account remains outstanding.
Barclays have confirmed the option for Mr U to transfer a cash APS up to the value of the 
late Mrs Us ISA on the date of her death  approximately £55,740  remains available to 
him. However, they dont have all the relevant instructions and/or documents they require to 
proceed with this. 
In order to proceed with the completion of the transfer Mr U should contact Barclays 
bereavement team directly. They are best placed to assist Mr U and will confirm exactly 
whats required and ensure he understands specifically what they consider to still remain 
outstanding.
In summary, I cant say exactly what happened to the GOP Mr U delivered in July 2018, but 
Barclays have a copy of this now. It was the signed in-specie APS application form which 
was received too late so I cant say Barclays did anything wrong by not proceeding with an 
in-specie transfer.
Barclays have confirmed other options are available to Mr U but that they require him to 
contact them directly in order for the transfer to proceed.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs U 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman