DRN-3271834
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain, through their claims management company (CMC), that Sanlam Life 
& Pensions UK Limited mis-sold them investment plans.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I are complaining about the following policies taken between 1998 and 1992:
- 1988  Mrs I took out a Savings Programme contributing £15 per month. The plan 
had a life insurance benefit attached to it and was invested in the Merchant Investors 
(MI) Managed Fund and Property Fund. Mrs I paid the premiums until 1998 when 
she surrendered the policy.
- 1988  Mr I took out a Savings Programme contributing £30 per month. The plan had 
a life insurance benefit attached to it and was invested in the MI Managed Fund and 
Property Fund. Mr I stopped paying premiums in 1992 and surrendered the policy in 
1998.
- 1989  Mr I took out another Savings Programme for £30 per month. The plan 
operated in the same way as his other policy but was invested in the MI Managed 
Fund only. Mr I stopped paying the premiums in 1992 and surrendered the policy in 
2001.
- 1991  Mr I took out another Savings Programme for £100 per month. The plan 
operated in the same way as his other policies but was invested in the Framlington 
Japan and General Fund. Its unclear how long Mr I kept this investment for.
- 1992  Mr I took out an Investment Programme with a premium of £150 per month. 
There was a life insurance benefit attached to it. This was invested in the MI 
Managed Fund. Mr I stopped paying the premiums in 1993 and surrendered the 
investment in 2001.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs Is CMC made a complaint about these particular policies. They said 
that the policies were intended to be kept for the long term and this was unsuitable for Mr 
and Mrs I who were young and could expect to encounter large life changes. Mr and Mrs Is 
CMC also said that there was no emergency savings in place when these plans were sold 
and there was no evidence that Mr and Mrs I received the correct policy information.
I sent out my provisional decision on this complaint on 19 January 2022, the relevant extract 
is as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that these plans didnt appear to be unsuitable for Mr and Mrs I 
for similar reasons. As our investigator and Sanlam didnt investigate the complaint about 
Mr Is 1991 plan, these findings are provisional  to allow both parties to comment.
I acknowledge that there are times when this service has concluded it was wrong for Sanlam 
to recommend plans that needed to be held for a long period of time to get a worthwhile 
return. But in this specific case, I dont think there is enough evidence to say that it was 
wrong to recommend these plans to Mr and Mrs I.
Mr and Mrs Is CMC refers to people in their 20s and 30s with significant life changes ahead 
of them. But in Mr and Mrs Is case, they were married, had children and Mr I was employed 
throughout. At the time they took out their first plan theyre complaining about Mr I was 32 
and Mrs I was 29. They also had a mortgaged home. So, I dont think its unreasonable that 
they may want to plan for long term savings goals. I can also see in the fact finds from the 
points of sale that they were looking for savings for retirement. So, the length of these plans 
doesnt make it unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Is circumstances.
Ive also looked at the amount of money Mr and Mrs I were paying into these plans. I cant 
see any indication that these plans were unaffordable. And I can see Mr I had other plans in 
place as well. Whilst I can see Mr I stopped paying into some of his plans a short while after 
he took them, he hasnt been able to tell us why that was. But I do see he had other 
investments in different funds aside from these and I think its likely Mr I made decisions 
based on the performance of the funds. Theres not enough evidence to suggest that, at the 
point of sale, Mr I shouldnt have been sold plans that were designed to be held for the long 
term given his circumstances at the time. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs Is CMC has argued theres no evidence they received the 
brochures for the plans at the time of sale. But from looking at all the point of sale 
documents we do have, I think its likely these were provided at the time. In any event, I dont 
think these particular policies were mis-sold to Mr and Mrs I.
Mr and Mrs Is CMC has said that these plans were often misrepresented as being suitable 
for the medium term. But I cant see any indication that this was the case here. As Mr and 
Mrs Is fact find shows, they were looking for savings for retirement, so I dont think the terms 
of these plans were misrepresented to them. I have noted that they didnt have any 
emergency savings, but the contributions were a small amount of Mr and Mrs Is available 
disposable income so I dont think that made these unsuitable for them.
Although Mr and Mrs I havent complained about the risk of the funds their plans were 
invested in, Ive thought about this. But the point of sale documents suggest Mr I had a 
number of different plans with other investment providers. He also had investment income of 
£1,500 per month and offshore assets, so I think its likely he was willing to accept some risk 
to achieve his goals. Its clear that he wanted long term savings as there was a particular 
point about his earnings increasing and wanting to increase his savings for retirement. So, I 
dont think that the plans recommended were unsuitable for him at the time.
Overall, I understand that for many, these particular plans may not have been suitable, but 
Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest that was the case for Mr and Mrs I. So, Im not 
persuaded that this case should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs Is CMC disagreed for the same reasons it set out prior to the provisional 
decision. Specifically, it said that these long-term plans were generally found to be 
unsuitable for people in their 20s and 30s. It also said there was no evidence to show that Mr 
and Mrs I were looking for savings for their retirement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has provided any additional comments or evidence, my decision remains 
the same as set out in my provisional decision  an extract of which is above and forms part 
of this decision.
The documents from the point of sale indicate that Mr I wanted savings for retirement. And in 
any event, Mr and Mrs I were in a position in their life where it wasnt unreasonable for them 
to be thinking of longer-term savings plans. Theres no evidence they were sold the longer 
plans as medium-term investments and Im not persuaded that they were unsuitable for their 
circumstances at the time. I acknowledge that there have been occasions where longer term 
plans shouldnt have been sold, but for the reasons set out in my provisional decision 
(relevant extract above) Im not persuaded this is the case for Mr and Mrs I.
It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman