DRN-3049499
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that it was mis-sold a commercial motor insurance policy 
by Insurance Factory Ltd, a broker. This complaint is brought on Gs behalf by Mr C, its 
director. 
What happened
Gs van was stolen, and its insurer declined the claim because of the keys in car exclusion in 
the policy. But Mr C said he hadnt been provided with the policy booklet by Insurance 
Factory and so he hadnt been aware of the exclusion. 
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
agreed that the policy booklet hadnt been provided to Mr C by Insurance Factory. And he 
didnt think it was reasonable to expect Mr C to have to request a copy from Insurance 
Factory. He thought it was for Insurance Factory to make Mr C aware of any key terms that 
could affect the policy. So he thought the keys in car exclusion, and also the taking 
reasonable care of the van requirement, hadnt reasonably been brought to Mr Cs attention. 
He thought that if they had, then Mr C would have acted differently. 
The investigator thought Insurance Factory should ostensibly step into the role of the insurer 
and pay the claim up to the policy limit, less the policy excess, with interest. And he also 
thought Insurance Factory should pay G £200 compensation for its inconvenience.  
Insurance Factory replied that it had provided Mr C with an Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) when he bought the policy. So it thought it had highlighted Mr Cs 
obligation to take precautions against loss or damage, such as not leaving the keys in his 
van. It thought this was a common term and so it didnt need to be specifically highlighted. 
Insurance Factory also thought it was unfair to expect it to step into the insurers shoes as 
the claim hadnt been investigated. It thought the insurer may then have declined the claim 
for other reasons. Insurance Factory asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to G and 
to Insurance Factory on 18 August 2021. I summarise my findings:
I understood that Mr C left his keys in the central console of the van with the doors unlocked 
whilst he was at his depot. The van was stolen whilst it was left unattended for fifteen 
minutes. The insurer then declined Gs claim for theft because of the keys in car exclusion in 
the policy. 
I thought this was a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I didnt find it 
unusual or unreasonable. But it is significant and so I would expect it to be set out in the 
policy wording and in the IPID, summary or Key Facts document. 
I could see that the policy exceptions were set out on pages 24 and 25 in the policy booklet. 
These included, amongst other things, that cover isnt provided for, 
loss of or damage to the insured vehicle and/or audio equipment while you are not in the 
insured vehicle arising from theft or attempted theft when: 
1. ignition keys, or any other device which unlocks and/or starts the insured vehicle, 
have been left in or on the insured vehicle, or 
2. the insured vehicle has not been secured by means of all door locks, or 
3. any window or any form of sliding or removable roof or hood have been left open or 
unlocked.
Its agreed that Mr C wasnt provided with a copy of his policy booklet when he took out the 
policy. Instead, Insurance Factory told him to contact it if he wanted an up to date copy of 
the full policy booklet. Mr C didnt do this. I thought it was unreasonable to expect Mr C to 
have to contact Insurance Factory to make this request. But, as he didnt request a copy, I 
thought that, on balance, if he had then he would have been unlikely to have read it and 
seen the exclusion. 
Mr C said he had kept copies of the policies that were sent to him on renewal in previous 
years. These would also contain the keys in car exclusion and so this information was 
already available to Mr C.
So I thought it was unfair and unreasonable for Insurance Factory to not send Mr C the 
policy booklet. This was an error. But I didnt think this merited any compensation in itself. 
However, I couldnt see that this significant exclusion was set out in the policy summary, Key 
Facts or IPID documents. Insurance Factory said that the IPID required Mr C to protect his 
van from loss. But I didnt think this was specific enough to alert Mr C that he wouldnt be 
covered for theft if he left his keys in the unlocked van. 
I thought the IPID should have included the keys in car exclusion, but it didnt. The IPID is 
the responsibility of the insurer and had it included the exclusion I thought Mr C might have 
spotted it. And I thought if the term had been adequately highlighted to Mr C, then he may 
have behaved differently. I thought he may have taken better care to lock his van whilst it 
was unattended and keep the keys safe.
The sale of the policy by the broker, Insurance Factory was non-advised which means it was 
only required to forward the IPID that it had been sent by the insurer. This fulfilled its 
responsibility to provide clear, fair and not misleading information to policyholders. And, as 
I couldnt say Insurance Factory made a mistake when it sent Mr C the IPID provided by the 
insurer, then I was unable to say that it made a mistake. And I couldnt hold it responsible for 
Gs losses or require it to pay G any compensation.
Subject to any further representations by G or Insurance Factory, my provisional decision 
was that I intended to not uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance Factory replied that it had nothing further to add. Mr C replied that he didnt agree 
with the provisional decision and he made a number of points which Ive listed and 
responded to below:
Mr C said that the IPID provided by Insurance Factory didnt list any policy 
exclusions. But, as Ive said above, Insurance Factory is only responsible for giving 
Mr C the IPID provided by the insurer. Its not responsible for its contents. 
Mr C said he wasnt aware of any exclusions relating to keys left in a car. But it 
follows from my response above that Insurance Factory isnt responsible for not 
listing the keys exclusion in the IPID. Mr C wanted clarification of Insurance Factorys objection to our investigators view 
that it thought it was unfair to expect it to step into the insurers shoes as the claim 
hadnt been investigated. Its the insurers role to investigate a claim. As the claim 
had been declined, then the losses incurred hadnt been quantified and claim 
validation hadnt been completed. 
Mr C disagreed that I thought that, on balance, if he had requested a copy of the 
policy booklet then he wouldnt have read it. I agree that this was an assumption 
based on what I considered would most likely have happened. I think this was 
supported by the fact that Mr C didnt request a copy in any case.
Mr C disagreed with my statement that he had kept copies of previous policies and 
so should have been aware of the exclusion. Mr C said this was his first year with 
Insurance Factory. But he also told us in his submission that hes seen that the 
exclusion is specified in other insurers IPIDs. So I think if he had read these policy 
documents then he would have been reasonably aware of the exclusion. 
Mr C said his complaint against the insurer hadnt been upheld by our service. But I 
cant consider that here, just his complaint against Insurance Factory, as they are 
separate businesses.
In conclusion, I havent been provided with any new material evidence to change my 
provisional decision. Ive considered Mr Cs submission, but Im not persuaded by it to 
change my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman