DRN-4201718
The complaint
Mr P complains that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group (Adrian Flux) mishandled his 
van insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P had a special van for his business. He used Adrian Flux as an intermediary between
him and an insurance company. In about October 2021, he made a card payment to Adrian
Flux for a van insurance policy.
On about 4 October 2022, Adrian Flux tried to renew the policy from 7 October 2022 and to
take payment from Mr Ps card. The payment didnt go through.
Mr P complained to Adrian Flux about a number of issues.
By a letter dated 7 October 2022, Adrian Flux responded to those issues.
By a final response dated 13 October 2022 , Adrian Flux responded again to the issues.
On about 19 October 2022, Adrian Flux offered Mr P compensation of £100.00.
Unhappy with that, Mr P brought his complaint to us in early November 2022.
 our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that
Adrian Flux hadnt acted unreasonably. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P  
and to Adrian Flux on 5 June 2023. I summarise my findings:
I didnt under-estimate the impact on Mr P of the shortcomings Id found in the way 
Adrian Flux dealt with his telephone calls. Nevertheless, I concluded that £100.00 
was fair and reasonable compensation for this level of distress and inconvenience.
Adrian Flux sent its final response before its offer, and it had not made payment. 
Subject to any further information from Mr P or from Adrian Flux, my provisional decision 
was to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Adrian Flux to pay Mr P £100.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr P disagreed with the provisional decision in part. He says, in summary, that: 
He is fully aware of when his insurance was due. That's why he phoned Adrian Flux 
on 30 September 2022.
Adrian Flux didnt post the letter on 26 September 2022. It would've had the 
information for the renewal three weeks prior to that and it was known there would be 
a postal strike. So it shouldve sent the details to him earlier.
Adrian Flux gave him wrong information on the phone when he asked about getting a 
premium reduction.
If payment had been made, it would have caused an overdraft and problems with 
other payments being met. 
As he made a complaint, the response should come from the complaints team. The 
reply from the customer services team was to "shut him up". 
With the inconvenience of taking this complaint to us, he wants more compensation.
Adrian Flux hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the year from October 2021, the premium had been about £680.00 (according to the
renewal documents for the next year).
Adrian Fluxs terms of business included the following:
Automatic renewals
For your protection, we reserve the right to automatically renew your policy up
to five working days prior to the renewal date and take payment by the same
payment method as this year. If we exercise this right we will write to you prior
to the renewal date, informing you how much the premium will be and giving
you time to opt out of the automatic renewal process. We also reserve the right
to automatically renew any additional policies that you take out with this policy,
such as breakdown assistance cover. You can opt out at any time during the
policy term. To opt out, please call us on 0344 381 6514, or contact us by post or
email.
I keep in mind the legal requirement for continuous insurance for a vehicle kept on the road.
I dont consider that Adrian Fluxs terms about automatic renewal were unfair.
In late January 2022, Mr P and a third party were involved in an accident. Its common
practice for an insurer to treat a claim as an open claim or as a fault claim against its
policyholder unless and until it establishes that a third party was liable.
Adrian Flux was an intermediary. I consider that  rather than Adrian Flux - it was the insurer
who was responsible for dealing with his and the third partys claims for repair, setting an 
estimated reserve of £1,500.00, deciding how to record the open claim and setting the 
renewal premium. So I dont find that Adrian Flux treated Mr P unfairly on those issues.
There was a postal strike from 30 September 2022 (a Friday) for two days. I accept that Mr 
P hadnt received renewal documents when on 30 September 2022, he called Adrian Flux.
It kept him on hold before dealing with his call. But I cant say that fell below the reasonable
standard of service to be expected.
Adrian Flux told him the proposed renewal price was about £830.00. From 30 September
2022, I consider that Mr P had enough time to shop around for a better deal.I consider that its terms of business allowed Adrian Flux to renew the policy automatically
and to apply for payment on the same card as the year before. I dont consider that this was
unfair to Mr P. Ive seen a letter from Adrian Flux to Mr P dated 4 October 2022 saying that 
his card issuer had declined payment. Mr P has told us that his bank contacted him about 
Adrian Fluxs request for payment early on 5 October 2022.
I note that on that day, Adrian Flux kept Mr P waiting for a call back. As it had arranged a
time, I find that Adrian Flux fell below the reasonable standard of service to be expected.
I accept Mr Ps statement that he received the renewal documents later during the morning
of 5 October 2022, only about 48 hours before the renewal was due at midday 7 October
2022.
After the final response dated 13 October, Adrian Flux again kept Mr P waiting for a call back
on 19 October 2022. As it had arranged a time, I find that Adrian Flux fell below the
reasonable standard of service to be expected.
Response to the provisional decision
The van was an important asset and source of income. So Mr P knew the time of the year 
when he needed to make sure it was insured for another year. He couldve contacted Adrian 
Flux earlier in September 2022.
Keeping in mind its terms of business, and notwithstanding the planned postal strike, I dont 
consider that Adrian Flux had to contact Mr P about the renewal until shortly before it was 
due.
I accept that Adrian Flux posted the renewal documentation to Mr Ps correct address on 
about 26 September 2022 (a Monday). It used second-class post or its equivalent, but I cant 
say that was unreasonable or that it made much difference.
Mr P asked about getting a reduction in the premium if it were agreed that he had no liability 
for the accident. Adrian Flux gave him an inaccurate answer. But it later corrected that in its 
final response.
I dont find it relevant to consider what mightve happened if the payment had gone through.
Mr P addressed his complaint to the customer relations team but received an initial reply  
from the customer services team. I dont consider that this treated him unfairly or caused him 
any detriment. 
Putting things right
I dont under-estimate the impact on Mr P of the shortcomings Ive found in the way Adrian
Flux dealt with his telephone calls. Nevertheless, I conclude that £100.00 is fair and
reasonable compensation for this level of distress and inconvenience. As Adrian Flux offered 
that amount shortly after the final response, Mr P couldve accepted it without the further 
inconvenience and trouble of bringing the complaint to us.
Nevertheless, Adrian Flux sent its final response before its offer, and I dont think it has 
made payment. So I will uphold this complaint in part and to direct Adrian Flux to pay Mr P 
(insofar as it hasnt already paid him) £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group to pay Mr P (insofar as it hasnt already paid 
him) £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman