DRN-2553097
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied through a contract hire 
agreement with Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MB). Miss M is not happy 
that her total monthly repayments will not be refunded.
What happened
On 23 August 2019 Miss M hired a new car through a contract hire agreement with MB over 
a 48-month period. The car was registered on 9 September 2019, which means it was brand 
new at the time of hire. The initial rental advance was for £453.59 followed by 47 monthly 
repayments of the same amount.
Since entering into the hire agreement Miss M has explained that she experienced a number 
of technical issues with the car, this included the speedometer going blank every so often 
while driving, and a notification that the service was due when it wasnt.
 
The information suggests that from December 2019 Miss M had contacted MB a number of 
times about different electrical issues including issues with the start/ stop function, and the 
head display unit intermittently not displaying. Between February and April 2020 MB had 
attempted to fix the electrical issues with the display on at least two occasions. However, the 
car remained faulty. 
In total Miss M travelled about 3,761 miles against her annual allowance of 10,000 miles. 
Miss M has expressed the inconvenience and personal disruption that this situation has 
caused. This included financial loss due to her belief that the car was not safe to drive.
 
Having complained to MB in March 2020, they sent their final response to Miss M in June 
2020 upholding her complaint. To settle things, they offered Miss M the following:
MB to take the car back from Miss M settling any outstanding finance with them
to pay £150 as compensation for the overall experience
to refund 10% of the Monthly repayments made (which at the time of the response 
would be £408.22)
Miss M accepted the first two points but disagreed with the proportion of refund she was 
being offered for the monthly payments that shed made. MB made the above payments to 
Miss M in June 2020, however their position on the proportion of refund remained 
unchanged, so Miss M brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that MB didnt need to do anything 
more. They felt that a 10% refund fairly reflected the amount of usage that Miss M had of her 
car while she was in possession of it. Miss M has now ask for a final decision to be made on 
her complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already shared with Miss M and MB my initial thoughts on this complaint; and Id invited 
each party to provide me with any additional information by 25 January 2021, that they felt 
may impact the outcome. Ive not received anything that has changed my position.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MB is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a 
consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as 
described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would need to meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems 
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider 
might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
 
My starting point is MB supplied Miss M a brand-new car with a monthly hire price of 
£453.59. With this in mind I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the 
level of quality to be higher than a less expensive and more road worn car; and that it could 
be used, free from any issues, for a considerable period of time.
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from Miss Ms description of events surrounding the failure of the display unit, the 
computerised updates carried out by MB to address the issues, and their correspondence 
addressing and upholding Miss Ms complaint. Having considered the car had a fault, Ive 
had to consider whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
MB has shared information that shows Miss M was in contact with them on 30 December 
2019 in relation to the speedometer which had gone blank. Their records suggest a phone 
fix was carried out for this issue, however Miss M reported that the problems still existed in 
addition to an issue with getting the start/ stop function to work. 
On 26 February 2020 MB used their diagnostic software to troubleshoot the problems that 
Miss M reported to them, this was after initial checks hadnt showed any problems. 
According to their customer support report, a malfunction was identified with the main 
display unit, which is where the speedometer is located. At this point MB referred to the 
dealer to arrange further inspections.
As the problems persisted, on 11 April 2020 MB carried out similar checks as before using 
their diagnostic software.
Considering the ongoing technical defects that were identified by Miss M soon after hiring 
the car and MBs attempts at fixing the issues, together with their conclusion that the main 
display unit system had failed twice, I think its fair to conclude the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss M. One aspect of satisfactory quality in the CRA is 
safety and from what Ive seen the car was not safe as there were times Miss M would not 
have known how fast she was driving. MB has upheld Miss Ms complaint about this so I 
dont see that this is in dispute. What appears to be in dispute is the resolution that MB 
proposed.
The CRA says that If the goods supplied under their act are considered to be unsatisfactory 
quality, it would be considered a breach of contract. Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain 
remedies available to the consumer for goods that do not conform:
 
(3) If the goods do not conform to the contract because of a breach of any of the 
terms described in sections 9,10,11,13 and 14, or if they do not conform to the 
contract under section 16, the consumers rights (and the provisions about them and 
when they are available) are 
 
the short-term right to reject (sections 20 and 22);
the right to repair or replacement (section 23); and
the right to a price reduction or the final right to reject (sections 20 and 24).
MB has arranged for the car to be taken back and have settled the outstanding finance, 
refunded 10% of monthly payments received (including the initial deposit) and have paid 
£150 compensation. Although Miss M has agreed to the compensation and the cancelling of 
the agreement, she disputes the proportion of refund for the monthly repayments. Miss M 
believes she should receive the full amount back. 
cancelling the hire agreement
Considering Ive established that the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied to 
Miss M, I think its right that MB cancels the hire agreement and removes this from her credit 
file; and it works towards putting Miss M back in the position had she not taken the 
agreement out.
compensation
I think its fair to say that Miss M would have been inconvenienced by all of this. In her 
complaint, Miss M said that she felt frustrated by what was happening with the car. She went 
on to explain that she had to arrange a taxi on one occasion and on other occasions had to 
cancel personal commitments. In their response MB offered to pay Miss M £150 
compensation for the inconvenience to her. 
I think the offer of compensation is the right thing to do, however, I do think that the impact 
on Miss M should be reflected with a higher award. In addition to how Miss M explained she 
was feeling about this, I believe that a reasonable person whos hired a brand-new car for 
over £450 per month would have expected no issues. And if there were any issues, for it to 
be fixed right away. Beyond having impaired use of the car its fair to say that Miss Ms entire 
experience with this car would have been significantly lacking from what her expectations 
were. Considering the above I think £300 would better acknowledge and recognise the 
distress and inconvenience that was caused.
refunding the monthly repaymentsI dont think theres any dispute that the offer by MB to refund a percentage of the monthly 
repayments that Miss M made is fair and appropriate. What I need to consider here is 
whether 10% is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Firstly, I can see that in the space of about nine months Miss M travelled about 3,761 miles. I 
note that when Miss M entered into the agreement, she agreed an annual allowance of 
10,000 miles. That equates to around 830 expected miles each month, which means over 
nine months she would need to have travelled no more than 7,500 to be on track to keep her 
miles below the agreed annual limit. Miss M travelled around 4,000 miles less than this. I 
accept its improbable to determine what the exact mileage would have been, but I dont 
think it would be fair to discount her intended mileage when she entered the agreement. So I 
think a degree of refund is appropriate.
What is certain is that Miss M continued to use the car throughout, averaging 417 miles each 
month. So, the car was still driveable and as far as we know, mechanically sound.
Ive considered that the problems with the display unit was intermittent and not always 
presenting a challenge. However I acknowledge the worry or concern that would most likely 
be felt by Miss M each time she would drive her car, notwithstanding the times when the 
display had malfunctioned. This amounts to impaired use, because the experience shed 
hoped for when hiring the car had been considerably compromised.
I acknowledge Miss Ms strength of feeling that the offer of a 10% refund is inadequate. I 
recognise that Miss Ms usage of the car has been impaired from the outset, and that this 
was far from what she had expected when hiring the car. However, I must also recognise 
that, albeit impaired, Miss M had a degree of usage up to around 3,761 miles.
If MB were to refund the full amount of the monthly repayments this would put Miss M in an 
unfair position, as she would benefit from having free use of a vehicle during the period of 
her agreement. For the reasons explained, Im persuaded that a refund of 10% is a fair 
amount to reflect the impaired usage experienced by Miss M. So I wont be asking MB to 
increase this amount.
The distress and inconvenience she experienced has been recognised through my 
amendment to the compensation. So in conjunction with the 10% refund, Im satisfied that 
this amounts to a fair outcome.
Putting things right
MB has recently confirmed to me that in June 2020 Miss M had her initial deposit returned to 
her and the credit agreement cancelled. MB also confirmed to me theyve already made their 
payment of £588.22 which is made up of £150 compensation and the 10% refunds for nine 
monthly payments made by Miss M towards her agreement.
 
Miss M has recently provided bank statements which shows she received the deposit on 2 
July 2020, and the payment of £588.22 from MB on 17 June 2020. However, the bank 
statements also show that shed in fact made ten monthly payments towards her agreement 
from 16 September 2019 up to and including 2 June 2020. This was in addition to her 
deposit which she paid on 23 August 2019.
 
Ive already spoken to MB about this and with this being the case, Ill be instructing them to 
pay an additional £150 to ensure the compensation is appropriately reflected, and to pay an 
additional £45.36 which is 10% of the monthly payment that MB hadnt accounted for.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part.
To settle the complaint MB has already arranged for the car to be taken back, returned the 
deposit of £453.59 and settled the outstanding finance. MB has also refunded 10% of nine of 
the ten monthly payments Miss M made on this agreement and paid £150 compensation. 
This has totalled £588.22.
So in addition to what theyve already done, I instruct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited to:
1. Pay Miss M an additional £150 for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused
2. Pay Miss M £45.36 for the monthly payment not originally accounted for when 
calculating the 10% refunds 
3. Pay interest of 8% simple per year on the above refund calculated from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
4. Remove any information of this agreement from Miss Ms credit file
If Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss M 
how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman