DRN-3279891
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs H complain about Aviva Insurance Limited increasing the premium and an 
excess on their home insurance policy and about information Aviva provided to them about a 
claim they made.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs H have a home insurance policy underwritten by Aviva.
They made two claims in October 2020. One related to damage to an expensive watch and 
one related to damage to a laptop.
When the policy was due for renewal, at the end of July 2021, Aviva charged a premium of 
£1,263.50. This was as substantial increase on the previous years premium of £832.44.
Aviva also increased the excess for claims relating to accidental loss of or damage to 
contents from £100 to £500.
Mr A and Mrs H say that when they contacted Aviva about the claim for the watch, they were 
told the claim would not have any impact on their contents no claims discount (NCD).
Mr A and Mrs H made a complaint to Aviva about the increased premium, the increased 
excess and the (alleged) misinformation about the NCD. 
They also said they shouldnt lose the NCD relating to the contents part of the policy 
because the watch should have been classified as personal belongings rather than contents 
and/or shouldnt be classified as contents because it was a specified item.
Aviva said theyd made a mistake during one phone call and quoted the wrong renewal 
price. They offered £50 in compensation for this poor service. 
But they maintained that the claims made by Mr A and Mrs H had been handled and 
classified correctly  and that the premium and excess had been calculated correctly 
according to their underwriting criteria. 
They also said that the relevant call recording showed that Mr A and Mrs H had not been 
misinformed about the NCD.
Mr A and Mrs H werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong.
Mr A and Mrs H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Mrs H made two claims in the relevant policy year (August 2020-July 2021). As I 
understand it, Aviva offer an option with this policy to protect the policyholders NCD if they 
make a claim. Mr A and Mrs H didnt take that option.
Making two claims for accidental damage to contents in one policy year is likely to lead to an 
increase in premiums in most cases. And its likely to cause the insurer to review the excess 
charges written into the policy. 
To put it as straightforwardly as I can, if you dont make any claims, you look like less of a 
risk to an insurer. If you make a number of claims, you begin to look like more of a risk. If 
you are more of a risk, your premiums (and excesses) will tend to increase.
Aviva wrote to Mr A and Mrs H a month before their policy was due to renew. They told Mr A 
and Mrs H what the new premium would be  and what the relevant excess would be. They 
also told Mr A and Mrs H that they might be able to get a better price if they shopped around.
Insurers are entitled to make their own judgements about what risks they wish to cover  and 
at what price. Customers can then make a choice  in a fairly competitive market  about 
whether they wish to take up that offer.
Mr A and Mrs H renewed with Aviva at the price Aviva offered. They had at least a month to 
shop around for a better offer. More than that, if we assume they might have been aware of 
the renewal date before Aviva wrote to remind them.
Aviva have provided information to us about their underwriting and pricing processes. Im 
satisfied Mr A and Mrs Hs premium and excess have been calculated according to the 
usual, pre-existing process and rules. Aviva didnt single out Mr A and Mrs H and treat them 
unfairly. They treated then exactly like any other customer with the same profile and history. 
We have a recording of the phone call in which Mr A and Mrs H allege they were informed 
the claim relating to the watch wouldnt affect their NCD. In fact, they were warned that the 
claim may affect their NCD. 
Mr A and Mrs H have since suggested that wasnt clear. They were only told the claim may 
affect the NCD, not that it would. I cant agree with Mr A and Mrs H that what they were told 
was in any way unfair or unreasonable. It was simply a call-handler not pre-empting a 
decision to be made later but giving fair warning to the customer.
I also note that the terms of the policy make it clear that if the policyholder makes a claim, 
that is likely to affect the NCD. I cant imagine, given that this a no claims discount (my 
emphasis) that there could be much doubt about that in the average readers mind.
The policy is also very clear about the distinction between contents and personal belongings. 
Our investigator has quoted the terms in detail when he gave his opinion on the complaint to 
Mr A and Mrs H, so I neednt repeat them here. 
Suffice to say, the personal belongings part of the policy covers possessions when they are 
taken out of the home. The contents section covers possessions when they are in the home.
Mr A and Mrs H havent suggested they were outside their home when the damage to the 
watch occurred. That being the case, its not unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to classify the 
claim as a contents claim.
The policy booklet and schedule are also very clear that specified valuable items arent a 
separate category and may and will include possessions that are contents and/or personal belongings.
In summary, I cant conclude that Aviva have acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr A and Mrs H. Theres nothing wrong in their classification of the claim. And 
theres nothing wrong with their adjusting the price of the insurance at renewal to reflect the 
risk in providing cover. They quoted a new price  which Mr A and Mrs H accepted  well 
before the renewal date, which gave Mr A and Mrs H the opportunity to seek a better offer 
elsewhere.
I understand Mr A and Mrs H have made a separate complaint to Aviva about their handling 
of the claim relating to the laptop. Clearly, its not for me to comment on that here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman