DRN-3257023
The complaint
Mr R complained that his claim was unfairly declined by Skyfire Insurance Company Limited  
(Skyfire) under his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr R said he purchased his motor policy from Skyfire via a comparison website. He said he 
chose the cover for social, domestic and pleasure use (SDP) as he used the train to get to 
work. He said he checked the insurers website on the definition of commuting before 
purchasing the policy.
In February 2020, a third party made a claim against Mr R, so Mr R wanted to use his policy 
with Skyfire to cover the claim. Skyfire said Mr R said he was on the way back from work 
and you used the car to get from the train station, which is part of your journey to work, this 
is commuting. As Mr R didnt have cover for commuting Skyfire decided to reject the claim.
Mr R didnt think this was fair as he thought hed purchased the correct cover when taking 
out the policy as hed checked Skyfires website and policy details. After the claim, he also 
called Skyfire pretending to be a new customer and he said he explained the scenario he 
was claiming for. He said the call handler said such a scenario wouldnt be considered as 
commuting.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said in his claim Mr R said he was 
driving home from work, which wasnt covered by the policy. Mr R disagreed, so the case 
has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 14 December 2021. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Generally, the 
remedy for the insurer is linked to the avoidance of the policy, though in this instance Skyfire 
has chosen to decline Mr Rs claim.
In declining the claim, Skyfire in effect has concluded that Mr R failed to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when he asked for cover for SDP only. Ive considered 
the questions asked of Mr R when he bought the policy and I can see that these were clear 
and unambiguous. I dont think Mr R took reasonable care to provide accurate information 
about the cover he required as it appears from the information hes provided us that he 
would be using his car in part for commuting to work.  
I have then gone on to consider if Mr R has made a qualifying misrepresentation, in other 
words did the misrepresentation make a difference to Skyfire. And so, the question here is, 
would Skyfire have acted differently towards Mr Rs policy proposal had it been made aware 
of accurate information about his cover needs?  
Skyfire continued to insure Mr R after the claim, but increased Mr Rs his premium by £5.68 
a month to reflect the additional cover for commuting. Therefore, I think its reasonable to 
assume that if Mr R had said his cover needed to include commuting when he took out the 
policy, then the policy would have been automatically offered at a higher cost of around £68 
per annum. The evidence shows that Mr R did use his car for commuting and had he been 
more careful, this is what he would have responded to Skyfires questions about the cover 
he required via the comparison website. And so, Im satisfied that Mr R has made a 
qualifying misrepresentation.
However, I think Mr R has demonstrated that he answered the questions about the cover he 
needed as he understood it at the time he took out the policy. Mr R checked Skyfires 
website and its definition for commuting was ambiguous, as is further evidenced by Skyfire 
tightening up its definition online since the claim. Mr R also checked his policy when it was 
sent to him and it was absent of any definition for commuting. So, Im persuaded that at the 
time of him accepting the policy, Mr R thought SDP cover was sufficient for his needs.
It is for Skyfire to show that Mr Rs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless and I dont 
think it has done that. From what Mr R has told us Im satisfied that Mr Rs misrepresentation 
was careless. According to CIDRA, when an insurer finds that a consumer has carelessly 
misrepresented, they can say theyd offer the policy but on different terms or not offer the 
policy altogether according to their underwriting criteria. 
Skyfires underwriting criteria as evidenced after the claim show if it had known Mr R needed 
cover including commuting it would have offered the policy but with higher premiums. I think 
on the basis that Mr R carelessly misrepresented his policy and Skyfire wouldve offered the 
contract, the fair and reasonable outcome is for the claim to be paid proportionally. There is 
no need to re-instate the policy as Mr R policy continued after the claim with higher 
premiums. 
Therefore, as Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation was careless not reckless or deliberate, 
I dont think Skyfire have acted fairly by not paying his claim. CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases. As explained above, had Skyfire known 
Mr Rs requirement included commuting status it would have charged more for the policy 
and CIDRA requires an insurer to base its remedy on what it would have done had the 
consumer taken reasonable care. This means Skyfire needs to determine what the actual 
additional premium would have been to Mr R when the policy was taken out and then apply 
the calculation for the proportion of Mr Rs claim that it will pay as set out within Schedule 1 
of CIDRA. 
As Mr R paid the third party claim himself, he has been without this money. Therefore, 
Skyfire should add 8% simple interest per annum to the proportion of the claim it owes Mr R, 
calculated from the date Mr R paid the third-party to the date Skyfire settled the claim.Mr R asked for the additional premium he paid since the claim to be refunded. I dont think 
this would be fair, as hes had the benefit of a policy including commuting for this period. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Skyfire didnt reply to my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to:
Settle Mr Rs claim proportionately as set out within Schedule 1 of CIDRA plus 8% 
simple interest from the date Mr R paid the third-party claim to the date Skyfire settle 
the claim.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman