DRN-2887282
The complaint
This is a complaint that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold the late Mr R payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1993.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. The representative of Mr Rs estate 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI took place about 28 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. This makes it harder to know what happened. 
But there has to be reasonable evidence before I can fairly say HSBC did something wrong 
 in a situation like this, it wouldnt be fair to make HSBC prove that it didnt do something 
wrong 
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
I think its likely the PPI would have been mentioned in the documents at the time, and that it 
would have been presented as a choice. And I dont have evidence to show that HSBC 
didnt make clear the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure that Mr R freely chose to take 
it. 
Its hard to now know, but its likely HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr R, and this means 
we would judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr Rs particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Rs 
situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr R was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr R received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr R would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr R in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr R couldnt afford the PPI when he took it 
out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And he could have cancelled the policy if this 
changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr R would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then have been up to Mr R to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Overall, Im have found good evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman