DRN-2981136
The complaint
Mr P complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) acted irresponsibly 
when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr P took out two Lending Stream loans in total. As they were well over a year apart, Ive 
looked at each of these separately as a single stand-alone loan.
Here are some of the main loan details:  
Loan Date Taken Loan status Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 18/03/2016 Repaid in 
20166 £150.00 £68.40
new lending relationship
2 01/01/2018Not yet fully 
repaid6 £300.00 £127.20
Mr P mainly said that Lending Stream had failed to carry out proper affordability checks 
before lending to him and, had it done so, it wouldve seen that he was stuck in a cycle of 
debt. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr P and Lending Stream told us about these loans. 
Overall, he thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ps 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to ask Mr P for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. Our adjudicator didnt think there was anything in the information Lending 
Stream had gathered that shouldve prompted the lender to do more checks before lending. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr P had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Lending Stream shouldve 
alerted Lending Stream to think he was having money problems. So he didnt uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. 
Mr P disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. He told us that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided a second loan after he 
had struggled with his repayments on the first loan, and he already had loans he wasnt able 
to pay at the time and he was on a debt management plan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr P with high-interest loans intended for short-term use and 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Lending Stream was required 
to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was 
sustainable for Mr P before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Lending Stream agreed to Mr Ps applications after carrying out affordability checks and it 
relied on information Mr P provided about his monthly income and expenditure and the 
results of credit checks it carried out.  
Keeping in mind everything that Mr P and Lending Stream have said, I've looked at each 
loan in turn. 
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was broadly entitled to 
rely on the information Mr P provided  although it did make some adjustments to what hed 
said based on its own independent checks. 
From what I can see, Mr P declared his income as £1,388. Lending Stream boosted the 
expenses figure hed provided and assumed his regular monthly expenses would be £237 
(so a little more than the £150 it appears Mr P had said). It also allowed for him spending 
£25 on servicing his existing credit commitments. After doing this, it still looked like Mr P 
would have around £1,126 disposable income  so he should have had ample disposable 
income left over to comfortably cover the cost of the repayments on this loan.
At this early stage, Mr P didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. 
Ive kept in mind what Mr P has said about his other borrowing at the time and being stuck in 
a cycle of debt. 
Ive seen a summary of Lending Streams credit checks for this loan. Its worth remembering 
that a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised or not up to date. 
I also understand that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit 
reference agencies. So a lenders credit check might not show all the information someone 
could see (or expect to see) on their own credit file. It looks like Lending Streams credit checks didnt show anything adverse that shouldve 
prompted it either to ask Mr P more searching questions about his financial situation or 
check the information hed provided. 
Overall, I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ps complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Ive taken into account that Mr P mentioned having some payment issues on loan 1. And 
that he was applying to borrow a bigger loan this time. But I dont think Lending Stream 
wouldve had any reason to think that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for 
Mr P.
Like the adjudicator, I think the gap in lending between Mr P paying loan 1 and applying to 
Lending Stream for loan 2 was long enough for the lender reasonably to think that Mr P had 
put his finances in order as it would seem that he hadnt been dependent on high cost short 
term loans during this period. This meant that when his borrowing started again, and Mr P 
applied for a loan in January 2018, he was effectively starting over. So I think it was fair for 
Lending Stream to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess his lending requests 
accordingly.
The figures hed declared when he applied for this loan, and the information Lending Stream 
had collected, seem to support Lending Streams lending decision. Mr P declared a higher 
income this time - £1,700. He told Lending Stream that his regular monthly expenditure was 
£525 and his credit expenses were £125. Lending Stream thought these figures seemed 
reasonable for someone in Mr Ps situation and its own credit checks didnt suggest that 
Mr P was spending anything more than hed said on servicing existing debt. 
So the loan monthly repayments looked like they should have been affordable for Mr P as 
the figures suggested he still had around £900 spare cash each month out of which he could 
easily cover the loan cost.  
Lending Streams credit checks dont show that it knew about Mr P being in any sort of debt 
arrangement. 
Despite what Mr  P has told me about his actual financial situation, I dont think there was 
anything in the information that Lending Stream had recorded for Mr P, or anything else that 
it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Lending Stream think this loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr P when he took it out. 
So thats why Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about the second loan.
Based on all the information it seems Mr P told Lending Stream and the information it 
recorded for him on each application, it wouldve looked like Mr P had sufficient money left 
after paying his other monthly outgoings to sustainably repay these loans. 
I think that Lending Stream gave Mr P fair opportunity to provide relevant information about 
his spending and, at this early stage in their relationship and in the absence of anything else 
that suggested it needed to do more in-depth checks, it was entitled to rely on the 
information he provided. I cant fairly say that its lending decisions were unfair in these 
circumstances.Im sorry that Mr P is struggling financially. I accept that, in reality, Mr Ps actual financial 
situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the other 
information Lending Stream obtained. But, in order to uphold this complaint, I have to be 
able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending 
Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr P. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr P but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. If Mr P would like 
help to manage his finances, theres more information about how to get free debt advice on 
our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman