DRN-2683704
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank didnt uphold his 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) regarding payments he 
made when he hired a car overseas.
What happened
Mr G hired a car overseas in August 2019. He had arranged the hire car before travelling 
and bought insurance. He says he was told to refuse any additional insurance offered when 
collecting the car. When he collected the car, he says he was asked for his credit card for a 
deposit which he says he was expecting and then he was asked to sign the documents. He 
says the airport was busy and he wasnt asked or told about a charge for insurance. He then 
realised he had been charged over £200 for insurance that he didnt need.
Mr G raised a chargeback with Tesco Bank, but this was defended and so the initial credit 
applied to his statement was reversed. He then raised a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) saying there had been a misrepresentation and 
breach of contract.
Tesco Bank issued a final response letter dated 17 January 2019. It said that it initially 
considered Mr Gs claim under the chargeback scheme under which the merchant (in this 
case the car hire company) is allowed 45 days to respond. Tesco Bank says the car hire 
company provided a copy of the contract with the charges for the car hire and extras set out 
and so the amount that had been credited to Mr Gs account was re-debited.
Tesco Bank then considered Mr Gs claim under section 75. It said that Mr G had signed the 
contract that outlined the charges and there was no evidence of a breach of contract and so 
it didnt proceed with the section 75 claim.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. He didnt think that Tesco Bank did anything 
wrong in how it dealt with the initial chargeback process. He also didnt think that Tesco 
Bank needed to do anything more regarding most of the charges made by the hire car 
company. However, there was one charge that he said he couldnt find further details of. 
This was for €32 and as he couldnt find where this charge had been explained to Mr G he 
thought this should be refunded along with the associated 2.75% foreign exchange fee.
Our investigator also thought that Tesco Bank could have investigated Mr Gs claim further 
and that Mr G was inconvenienced by having to pursue this. Because of this he thought 
Tesco Bank should pay Mr G £50 compensation.
Tesco Bank didnt agree with our investigators view. It noted that the amount he said should 
be refunded to Mr G fell below the limits for a section 75 claim. It didnt accept that it hadnt 
investigated Mr Gs claim sufficiently. It noted that our investigator hadnt upheld most of the 
transaction. It said when it reviewed Mr Gs claim it couldnt find any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation that would support a valid section 75 claim.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr G raised a chargeback claim with Tesco Bank, and a temporary credit was 
applied to Mr Gs account. However, the car hire company defended the claim and 
having looked at the information provided to Tesco Bank, I didnt think Tesco Bank 
acted unreasonably by re-debiting Mr Gs account. I thought Tesco Bank had 
followed the correct process for the chargeback.
Mr G then raised a section 75 claim. There are limits on what can be considered 
under section 75. One limit relates to the cash price of the goods or service 
purchased. This needs to be between £100 and £30,000. Mr G paid around £365 to 
the car hire company for the deposits and insurances when he collected the car. This 
was in a single invoice and single payment. There was a breakdown of the different 
charges made but I thought it reasonable to say that the contract was for the total 
amount and as this totalled more than £100 I found it reasonable that Tesco Bank 
considered Mr Gs claim.
I had nothing to suggest the car type Mr G received wasnt in line with his booking. 
The contract appeared to have been signed by Mr G and set out the additional 
charges. One charge was an administration charge, and this was set out in the hire 
car companys terms and conditions. Another charge was the deposit (which was set 
out in the car hire voucher and later refunded) and the other two charges were for 
insurance. Mr G had already bought insurance but as he signed the contract with the 
insurances listed and I had nothing to suggest that these wouldnt have been able to 
be used had an issue arose, I didnt find that I could say there was a breach of 
contract.
I considered whether there was a misrepresentation. The charges were set out in the 
contract given to Mr G when he collected the car and he signed this. The contract 
also had a section in English which explained the charge recorded as €169.38 being 
to ensure the consumer was exempt from charges ..for damages that occur during 
the rental period, except in cases of negligence, and no damage excess deposit is 
required. It stated this wasnt part of the deposit. I noted the comments Mr G has 
made about how busy the airport was but thought the invoice provided the 
information he needed to understand this charge wasnt a deposit and instead was 
insurance. He had been told that extra insurances may be offered, and I found he 
could have challenged this amount at the time. As the information provided to him in 
the contract was accurate, I didnt find I could say a misrepresentation of this amount 
occurred.
It wasnt clear if the reference in the English section was to the final charge (€26.45) 
and as this wasnt mentioned elsewhere in this part of the contract, I considered 
whether this charge was a misrepresentation by omission. However, as the charge 
was set out in the list of charges I didnt find I could say this was the case. 
Overall, I understood why Mr G raised his claim as he acquired additional insurance that he 
didnt need. But as he was provided with the information in the document he signed when 
collecting the car, I didnt find I can say there was a misrepresentation. I also didnt find I had 
evidence to show that there was a breach of contract. Because of this I didnt uphold this 
complaint.
Mr G responded to my provisional decision. He said that he only received a copy of the 
document after he had signed this on an electronic pad. He reiterated how busy the airport was and said that the document was long, in very small font and 95% in Spanish and given 
the circumstances he didnt feel he had the opportunity to consider this fully or raise 
questions at that time. He noted that in the English section the word insurance wasnt used, 
and his hire included certain insurances and so it wasnt clear what this section related to. 
Mr G said he wasnt given any extra information about the insurance which he would have 
expected if he had been acquiring this at the time. 
Mr G reiterated that he believed a misrepresentation had occurred. He felt the practice of 
adding insurance costs without explanation was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs complaint is that he was charged for insurance he didnt need on the car he hired 
when abroad. He has shown that he had bought insurance before travelling and so he didnt 
require any additional car insurance. Mr G raised his claim with Tesco Bank, and it initially 
attempted a chargeback. As I set out in my provisional decision I think Tesco Bank did what 
was required of in response to the chargeback request.
Mr G then raised a section 75 claim. As I have already explained, I find that Mr Gs claim is 
one that should be considered based on the total cost of the invoice he paid for when 
collecting the hire car. 
I understand the points Mr G has raised in response to my provisional decision about the 
process that took place when he signed the documents at the airport, the environment he 
was in and the nature of the document he signed. However, I must consider whether there 
was a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
As I have explained, I do not have anything to suggest the items Mr G paid for when he 
collected the car wouldnt have been available to him had he needed them and considering 
this along with the other information available I do not find that a breach of contract occurred.
Considering the issue of misrepresentation, I have explained the breakdown of charges and 
as the administration charge was set out in the hire companys terms and conditions and the 
deposits were expected, I focussed on whether the charges for the insurances were 
misrepresented.
In this case, while I understand why Mr G raised his concerns and I appreciate the 
comments he has made about unfair practices, I do not find I have enough to say that the 
charges were misrepresented. They were set out in the document and there was an 
explanation in English about the nature of the charges and while I understand that it may 
have been difficult to enter a discussion about these, had Mr G not understood the nature of 
the charges I think it would have been reasonable to ask about these. 
So, while I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr G, and I appreciate 
the concerns he has raised, I do not find I can say that Tesco Bank did anything wrong by 
not upholding his section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman