DRN-3045795
The complaint
 Mr E has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted irresponsibly by 
increasing his overdraft limit.
 
What happened
 Mr E complained to NatWest that the increase of his overdraft limit was unaffordable and 
lead to him being in financial difficulty. NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr E 
was dissatisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that NatWest acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased 
Mr Es overdraft 28 December 2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr E was 
in no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr E was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt maintained a credit 
balance for an extended period of time. NatWests own literature suggests that overdrafts 
are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So I think 
that Mr Es overdraft usage should have prompted NatWest to have realised that Mr E 
wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have increased his limit or continued 
offering it on the same terms. As NatWest didnt react to Mr Es overdraft usage and instead 
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr E ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that NatWest didnt 
treat Mr E fairly and he lost out because of what NatWest did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Es complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Es current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the increase in limit on 28 December 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Mr E to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Es 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 28 December 2016
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr E along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mr Es credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Es complaint. National Westminster Bank 
Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman