DRN-2906422
The complaint
Mrs G complains that a life assurance policy sold to her by The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited (Prudential) wasnt suitable for her needs. 
What happened
Mrs G changed her mortgage in 1996. The change meant that shed only have to pay the 
interest being charged against the money she owed, but when the mortgage came to an end 
in 2008 shed still owe what had been borrowed. 
After making that change to her mortgage, Mrs G took out her policy with Prudential. It was a 
whole-of-life policy, meaning that as long as Mrs G continued to meet the conditions of the 
policy, shed be covered by it. 
Mrs G paid for the policy monthly. That was set up to continue until 2034. After that, Mrs G 
wouldnt have to pay anything more for the policy, which would continue until she died. 
As this was life assurance, it was designed to only guarantee a payment when Mrs G died. It 
was set to pay at least £7,000  called the sum assured  plus any extra value it had 
gained while it had been running. Prudential call this a with profits policy. 
The policy allowed Mrs G to end it before she died. But if she did that, shed only get the 
profits and bonuses the policy had built up. She wouldnt get the £7,000 death benefit. 
Mrs G paid towards the policy from 1996 until her complaint in 2020. In that time  in 2005  
she extended the term of her interest only mortgage, so that it would run to 2020. 
In 2020, Mrs Gs mortgage provider told her they wanted the mortgage to be repaid, as per 
their agreement with her. Mrs Gs said shed been expecting her policy from Prudential to be 
able to pay off what she owed. But it couldnt  there wasnt enough money from the 
bonuses and profits it had gained to do that. 
Mrs G complained that shed been mis-sold the policy. Prudential considered the complaint 
and agreed the policy wasnt right for Mrs G. They said that a record from 1996 showed 
Mrs G had only really needed a death benefit of £2,000  not £7,000. And they noted that 
the whole-of-life policy didnt seem to fit with the mortgage.
Prudential offered to cancel the policy, refund what Mrs G had paid over the years, and pay 
an extra 8% simple interest on top of the refund. They also offered Mrs G £100 
compensation for some delays contacting her during the complaint handling. In total, 
Prudential said this would amount to a payment of £10,280.39 to Mrs G.
Mrs G didnt accept that offer, and instead came to us. Our investigator looked at the details 
of the case. He agreed the policy didnt seem right for Mrs Gs needs at the time, but felt the 
offer from Prudential would put that right. But Mrs G still feels Prudential need to do more. 
Shes said she wants around £14,000, which is what she says the policy had been meant to 
pay when she set it up. 
With no agreement to resolve this complaint, its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although theres agreement that Mrs Gs policy wasnt right for her, the issue here is what 
should be done to put that right. Ive decided Prudentials offer is a reasonable remedy. Ill 
explain how I get to that decision, starting with a look at how exactly the policy missed the 
mark. 
We unfortunately dont have a detailed explanation of what was said or agreed in 1996. 
Given the time thats passed, thats not too surprising. But it means Ive had to infer what 
most probably happened, based on the limited information that I do have.
Therere a few things that point to Mrs G wanting this policy to help her pay off her mortgage 
while she was still alive. The fact she took it out at around the same time she switched to an 
interest only mortgage suggests it was to be linked somehow to that mortgage. And the fact 
it was a with profits policy  which would gain some value over the years  suggests Mrs G 
may have been planning to use that value at some point.
But there are other things that suggest the policy wasnt planned to link up with the 
mortgage. The documents from 1996  mainly a record of the answers Mrs G gave when 
asked about her finances  suggest Prudential were expecting the mortgage to be paid off 
by the sale of the property. 
And some letters Ive seen for the policy make a point that the only amount the policy 
guarantees is the £7,000 sum assured. And that was only guaranteed if Mrs G died. No 
guarantees seem to have been given that the policy would be able to cover the mortgage 
after a certain number of years. 
Plus, Mrs G extended her mortgage in 2005, suggesting she knew she wouldnt have the 
funds to pay it off in 2008. If the policy had been intended to pay off the mortgage over the 
term it had in 1996, Id have expected to see the complaint that it couldnt raised in the run 
up to 2008, when the mortgage had been due to end. 
It seems to me that  more likely than not  Mrs G was expecting the policy to help her pay 
towards her mortgage, using the value the with profits side of it built up over the years. But 
I find its unlikely Prudential ever gave her a guarantee that the policy would pay off the 
whole mortgage. Ive not seen that they did, and Mrs G didnt complain that it hadnt by the 
original end date of the mortgage. 
In that sense, the policy is suitable for Mrs G. It does have a value separate to its death 
benefit, which Mrs G could call on when she needed it. But then I come to the issues 
Prudential have identified with the policy  its whole-of-life term, and the size of the sum 
assured.
The documents from 1996 identify Mrs G wanted some money  around £2,000  to help 
pay for a funeral when she died. So setting her sum assured at £7,000 seems unreasonable. 
While it meant thered be extra money for Mrs Gs family after she died, it also meant she 
had to pay more per month for the policy. 
Its possible the £7,000 figure was chosen to ensure the with profits part of the policy would 
build up quicker than if a lower premium was being paid. But if that was the aim, its not noted anywhere in the documents Ive seen. And there were probably better ways to invest 
the money  rather than trying to manipulate this policy into doing that. 
Its also possible the higher sum assured was to cover the mortgage if Mrs G died soon after 
the policy began. It wouldnt by that time have built up much value to help towards the 
mortgage, so the sum assured would pick up the shortfall. But again, theres nothing to 
confirm that thinking. And there were probably better ways to cover that eventuality  for 
example, a policy where the sum assured decreased over a set period.
So I conclude the policy wasnt right for Mrs G because she didnt need the sum assured to 
be as high as it was. 
Putting things right
Prudentials offer would be ideal for a case where  if the service had been reasonable  
Mrs G wouldnt have had the policy at all. But Ive found its likely she wanted something to 
help her pay towards her mortgage. And I accept that at the time she also wanted some sort 
of life cover, to help towards expenses after she died. 
So Ive looked at Prudentials offer as if it was a sort of investment. The inclusion of interest 
on the refunded premiums is where Mrs G gets a return. For the £5,790.96 she put in over 
the years, shed receive £4,389.43 in profit, if she took the offer. 
As far as resolving her complaint, I find thats a reasonable way to do it. It turns her policy in 
to an investment, which seems to be more in line with what she should have had. And  
although she didnt use it  it recognises that Mrs G could have benefited from the life cover 
the policy gave her from 1996 to 2020. 
I prefer that to Mrs Gs suggested remedy of a figure closer to £14,000. Ive not seen any 
documents that say the policy was going to give her that much, either in a claim under the 
life cover or through its bonuses over the years. 
Ive thought about whether there was some other policy or investment that Mrs G could have 
had in 1996 instead which would have given her a better return. But again, the lack of details 
from 1996 limit my ability to conclude in that way. Its not clear to me how much Mrs G would 
have been willing to invest, what risk shed have accepted, and how she would have chosen 
to manage the risk the life assurance covered. And its not clear if the overall outcome would 
be too different to what Prudential have already offered.
So Im not going to go down that route here. It overcomplicates the situation, when Im 
satisfied the offer Prudential have made is reasonable, and would probably still be a good 
offer even if I brought those sort of details into my reasoning. 
As a couple of final points, Ive noted Prudential offered £100 compensation for issues 
during their complaint handling. Im not going to include that in my decision, as I dont have 
jurisdiction to try to remedy problems solely caused by complaint handling. But Mrs G is free 
to ask Prudential to honour that part of their offer, separately to my decision.
And I can see Prudential have applied a tax deduction to the interest theyve offered. If 
Mrs G wants to try and claim that back, she should ask Prudential for a statement saying 
whats been paid, so that she can then pursue it with HMRC. Prudential should provide the 
statement, if its asked for.
My final decisionIve decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. 
To put this matter right, they should refund what shes paid towards her life assurance policy, 
with simple interest at 8%. This will also see the policy cancelled.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman