The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mrs A says HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs A took out a credit card on the telephone with HSBC in 2002 and she was sold the PPI 
at the same time. The policy cost 76p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It 
wouldve paid 10% of the monthly outstanding balance for 12 months if Mrs A was off work 
sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. Mrs A didnt agree with our adjudicator, so 
the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
HSBC sold Mrs A the PPI policy during a telephone call in 2002. Unfortunately, HSBC hasnt 
been able to provide a copy of the call recording, but this isnt surprising given its nearly 18 
years since that call took place. So, I dont know what it may have said to Mrs A when the 
policy was sold. But based on what I do know of HSBCs sales process at this time, I think 
Mrs A wouldve understood the policy was optional.
Moreover, the credit agreement that HSBC sent her after the telephone call had a separate 
section headed Optional Cardholder Repayment Protector and I can see that Mrs A signed 
this section to confirm she wanted to purchase the PPI.
Furthermore, the premiums for the policy wouldve appeared on her monthly credit card 
statements - so if she hadnt agreed to the policy, or if it had been added to her account 
without either her knowledge or her consent, I think its reasonable to say she wouldve 
queried the premiums shortly after the policy was added to her account in October 2002. So, 
taking all this into consideration, I think Mrs A knew the policy was optional and chose to 
purchase it because she saw some value in it in 2002.
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs A, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs A got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.  
DRN-1148526Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. 
But HSBC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because: 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about
that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mrs A, that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said  but these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI wasn't mis-sold - so HSBC Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs A.
But HSBC Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs A any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has done this already, so I don't 
award and further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman