DRN-3682294
The complaint
Mr A, representing the trustees of the H Trust, complains about the service hes received 
from ReAssure Limited when the trusts investment bond was migrated to it.
What happened
The trust funds, held within an investment bond, were transferred to ReAssure from the 
previous provider as part of an action. Mr A, together with the trustees, were told about this 
prior to the move. Once the transfer had completed Mr A experienced issues. To summarise 
these are as follows:
- The trustees cannot manage the funds within the bond on the online portal which 
means Mr A cannot complete fund switches online. He believes the trust has lost 
around £5,000 because of this.
- The documents received do not show all the trustees or lives assured under the trust. 
Mr A is concerned that this error will prevent the beneficiaries and trustees from 
accessing what belongs to them.
- ReAssure has repeatedly given incorrect information which has caused Mr A 
significant trouble and upset.
ReAssure accepted it had made errors when it communicated with Mr A and the trustees. It 
has shown it has offered £800 compensation for the errors, made up of offers before and 
after the complaint was referred to this service. It says it provided Mr A and the trustees with 
the relevant forms to complete fund switches so it doesnt believe the trust has lost out by 
not having access to the portal. It has also confirmed that the portal doesnt support access 
for trust accounts and it would let Mr A know when this changes.
Our Investigator felt the compensation that ReAssure had offered was fair and reasonable. 
In summary he said the letters ReAssure sent to Mr A offering access to the portal were sent 
in error. And, whilst this caused frustration it had told Mr A on a number of occasions that it 
was an error and the portal isnt available for trust accounts. He also explained that 
ReAssure had offered a way to switch funds, so he couldnt say it should pay for any 
potential financial loss by not having access to switch funds online. The Investigator said that 
ReAssure had confirmed to Mr A on a number of occasions that the trustees and lives 
assured were all correct and hadnt changed as a result of the migrations. Finally, he 
concluded that there were a lot of occasions where ReAssure fell short in its communication. 
But he felt that overall, the compensation offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr A disagreed, he continued to say that he hasnt got access to the portal and the value of 
the investment has now decreased. He asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has submitted a great deal of evidence and has detailed all of the mistakes ReAssure 
has made. I want to assure Mr A that Ive considered all of his points in detail. However, I 
wont be addressing each specific issue individually. To reflect the informal nature of this 
service, this decision outlines my decision overall and will address the main issues. Having 
considered everything, I agree with the Investigator that the compensation ReAssure has 
offered is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why in reference to the main issues below.
Access to the portal
Mr A has wanted access to the portal since his investment transferred to ReAssure. Its clear 
hes had conflicting information about his access, not least because he keeps receiving 
invitations to register. However, Im satisfied that the portal isnt available for trust accounts. 
Im also satisfied that ReAssure has made this clear to Mr A.
When the business transferred to ReAssure it sent a document out to the customers 
affected. In this it said:
eligible customers will be able to register for the ReAssure portal, called 'ReAssure Now'. 
ReAssure will use a phased launch to introduce this service to customers.
I cant see from this that all customers would be able to use the portal, and ReAssure has 
told us that when it is able to allow trust accounts access it would tell Mr A. I understand Mr 
A wants access now, but it isnt possible and its not my role to tell ReAssure how to run its 
portal.
One of the main reasons Mr A wants access to the portal is for him to be able to do fund 
switches. Hes said on average hes made £5,000 per year doing this with the old provider 
and he feels hes lost this because hes been unable to access the portal. Ive seen evidence 
that Mr A could do fund switches using postal forms. ReAssure has sent the available funds 
to Mr A and the corresponding forms. So, Im not persuaded that Mr A has lost out on the 
opportunity to perform fund switches. In any event, Ive seen in the year following the 
transfer to ReAssure, the investment in the trust increased by around £10,000.
Mr A most recently said the value has decreased. But Ive seen evidence that the trustees 
have now taken withdrawals from the investment which is likely to account for this decrease.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr A, on behalf of the trustees, hasnt been treated unfairly by not being 
able to use ReAssures portal. But I agree that ReAssure have given misinformation but Ill 
deal with that more below.
The lives assured and trustees
Mr A, and the trustees, were particularly unhappy that all lives assured and trustees werent 
appearing on the policy documentation. The concern was that the beneficiaries and trustees 
wouldnt be able to access what was theirs. ReAssure had given some misinformation over a 
number of calls that Mr A had with it. However Im pleased to see that it sent Mr A and the 
trustees a letter both in 2020 and 2021 outlining who the lives assured and the trustees are. 
It also explained that the system didnt allow it to display more than two names, but assured 
the trustees that they were all on the trust and this had never changed.
ReAssure also explained that the trustees, and Mr A, may continue to receive 
documentation that didnt have all trustees listed due to the system constraints. So, Im 
satisfied that ReAssure holds the correct lives assured and trustees for the bond, as well as 
explaining the issue. As such, I dont think it needs to do anything more here.Customer Service
Overall I dont think ReAssure has provided a service that is acceptable, but ReAssure has 
acknowledged this. Its aware that Mr A has had conflicting information about the portal, as 
well as conflicting issues about who the trustees are. Hes had a number of phone calls that 
werent returned also. Mr A made in excess of 200 calls to ReAssure about issues hes 
found, and has made a number of submissions to this service. 
I dont think the number of calls Mr A made was reasonable, but I do expect ReAssure to 
have called him back when it said it would. And the number of calls show the level of impact 
the misinformation was causing Mr A.
I can see that overall, ReAssure have paid Mr A £800 compensation for the errors its made, 
as well as the distress Mr A has experienced. I think this is a reasonable amount of 
compensation and Ive not seen anything to suggest that it should pay Mr A, and the 
trustees, anything more.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited has provided evidence to show that £800 compensation has already been 
paid by cheque to Mr A for the trouble and upset it has caused him and the trustees. So, it 
doesnt need to do anything further to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, Mrs B and 
Mr A as trustees of the H V A Trust to accept or reject my decision before 
30 September 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman