DRN-3352020
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains Markel International Insurance Company Limited turned 
down a claim it made on its commercial legal expenses policy. S is represented by its 
director, Ms R. 
What happened
S has commercial legal expenses cover with Markel. In April 2021 it made a grant 
application to its local council for assistance with a number of business related items. That 
application was provisionally agreed but the offer was subsequently withdrawn. S made a 
claim on its legal expenses policy in September 2021 for assistance in challenging that 
decision. It also raised concerns about a data protection breach, corruption and misuse of 
office by the local council. 
Markel turned down the claim. It said the only part of the policy the grant dispute could be 
considered under was a contract dispute. But that would only be the case if it related to a 
contract for goods or services which it didnt think was the case here. And the policy only 
provided cover for the defence (not the pursuit) of actions relating to data protection. In 
addition, it didnt think there was any cover for issues relating to corruption and misuse of 
office. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded the offer of a grant was a contractual matter and, even if it 
was, she didnt think it was for goods or services. And she agreed there wasnt cover under 
the policy to pursue a data protection claim. She thought Markel acted fairly in turning down 
the claims S made.
Ms R didnt agree. She said the grant offer met the key requirements set out in law for a 
contract to apply. And she argued there was nothing in the policy which precluded offences 
against the insured so she thought the pursuit of a data protection claim was covered. Ms R 
also provided further information on her dispute with the local council which she believed 
evidenced corruption and collusion. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Markel has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Claim in relation to the grant application
Ive reviewed Ss policy. I agree the only area the claim relating to the grant application might 
be covered under is the contract disputes section. And the relevant part says:
We agree to pay costs in a dispute with a contracting party over: 
Contracts for goods and services 
A contract for the sale, hire or supply of goods and services 
When an insurance claim is made its for the insured to show there has been an insured peril 
 an event thats covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the claim 
or prove that an exclusion applies.
Ms R argues the grant offer in this case was made in line with contract law and the key 
criteria for a contract to have been formed (offer, acceptance, consideration, intent to create 
legal relations and capacity) were met. She says an offer was made, S considered it and 
both parties agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions. 
I dont agree with her on that. In particular I dont think Ms R is correct in her assessment of 
consideration. In relation to a contract consideration means a promise to pay money, a 
promise to do something, a promise not to do something or a promise to provide something 
else of value.  
I dont believe thats happened in this case. S hasnt provided consideration (as defined 
above) in return for something provided by the local authority. If the grant had taken place 
the donor (the local authority) would have provided the money (the grant) but received 
nothing from S in return. I appreciate S would have needed to provide match funding in order 
to be eligible for the grant but that isnt a sum which would be paid to the local authority. So 
Im not persuaded a contract does exist in this case which means I dont think theres any 
cover under this section of the policy for the claim S made. 
In any case, even if it could be shown that acceptance of the grant offer was a contract (and 
for the reasons Ive explained I dont think it was), it also needed to be a contract for the 
sale, hire or supply of goods and services. I think its clear it didnt relate to goods; S wasnt 
purchasing items from the local council. Nor was it buying or hiring services from it. 
Ive considered whether it could be a contract for the supply of services but I dont think it is. 
A contract for services generally exists where a service provider, such as a consultant, 
builder or cleaner, agrees to carry out some work for a customer. It would normally specify 
the service to be performed and set an agreeable standard for the completion of these 
services. 
The contract would include provision for things like service levels, price, performance, data 
protection, non-competition and ownership of intellectual property. With that in mind Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the grant application. I appreciate it does contain some 
of those elements but it doesnt make any reference to the price to be paid or the level of 
service to be provided by the local council. 
And while S has referenced legal advice it obtained I havent seen a legal opinion which 
shows this was a contract for services. If S does have such an opinion it should provide it to 
Markel so it can be considered. But, as it stands, I dont think S has shown that what 
happened in this case falls within the contracts section of policy cover. I dont think its 
covered by any of the other insured events set out in the policy either. As a result I think it 
was fair of Markel to turn down the claim S made about this. Data protection claim
Data protection issues fall within the regulatory compliance section of the policy. This says it 
covers:
Data protection defence 
Defence under the Data Protection Act 2018 (Articles 168 and 169) and the General 
Data Protection Regulation (Section 82) 
Data protection compensation 
Liability for compensation as a result of holding, losing or unauthorised disclosure of 
data provided that at the time of a claim under this Section of cover you have an 
accepted claim under Section of cover: Data protection defence 
The referenced sections of the Data Protection Act provide for compensation for 
contraventions of either the GDPR or other data protection legislation. Article 82 of the 
GDPR also provides for compensation as a result of an infringement of that regulation. 
But the wording of the policy makes clear that relates to the defence of those claims. So 
where a third party was making a claim against S for compensation thats something the 
policy would potentially cover. That isnt what happened here. S says there has been a 
GDPR breach by the local authority relating to its own data and (I understand) has been 
successful in a complaint to the Information Commissioners Office about that. However, 
nobody is taking action against S. It wants to take action against the local authority to obtain 
compensation for that breach. 
Ms R has said such action isnt specifically precluded. I appreciate there isnt a specific 
exclusion for the pursuit of claims. But there doesnt have to be. Insurance policies set out 
what insured events are covered and then use exclusions and conditions to explain in 
relation to those insured events what is and isnt covered. If something isnt covered by the 
policy at all then theres no need for an exclusion. In this case the policy doesnt include the 
pursuit of data protection claims as an insured event. So I dont think Markel acted unfairly in 
turning down the claim S made about this. 
Ms R says this means the insurance isnt fit for purpose. But its for an insurer to decide what 
risk it wants to take on (and what to charge for doing so). In this case Markel has decided 
that, while it will take on the risk of defending claims relating to data protection, it doesnt 
want to insure the risk of pursuing them. Thats a decision its entitled to take. 
Ms R has also suggested Ss broker should have drawn these issues to its attention. 
However, thats something shed need to pursue as a separate complaint against the broker. 
It isnt something I can consider in this decision. 
Other issues
Ms R has provided some detailed comments about the action of the local council which she 
believes evidence corruption and collusion on its part. And I appreciate the withdrawal of 
grant funding has had a significant impact on S. But Im not considering the actions of the local council. The question I need to consider is 
whether Markel acted unfairly in deciding there was no cover under Ss legal expenses 
policy to pursue these wider claims. Ive reviewed the policy and I cant see these allegations 
in themselves would fall within any of the insured events set out in it. So I dont think Markel 
did anything wrong in advising S of that. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask S to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022. 
James Park
Ombudsman