DRN-3387315
Complaint
Mr G has complained that Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as Ratesetter) unfairly brought 
about an unaffordable loan for him. He says he couldnt afford the loan and got into further 
debt as a result. 
Background and my provisional decision of 7 March 2022
Ratesetter operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr G being 
provided with a loan in April 2016. The loan was for £8,000.00. The loan had a 36-month 
term and an APR of 19.6%. This meant that the total amount of £10,421.28, including 
interest and other charges of £2,421.28, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of 
around £290.
On 7 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Gs 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by setting out that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that Id used this approach to help me decide 
Mr Gs complaint. I went on to explain that Ratesetter needed to carry out proportionate 
checks to be able to understand whether Mr G could afford to make the loan payments 
before bringing about this loan for him. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
As I understood it, Ratesetter enquiries into Mr Gs circumstances suggested that he was 
employed and earning around £1,850.00 a month. I also understood that Ratesetter carried 
out a credit check which showed Mr G had 6 active accounts and no current repayment 
issues. It also looked as though Mr G had a historic default but this was settled a few years 
earlier. And Ratesetter also obtained some information on Mr Gs living expenses from him 
too. As there was no recent concerning information on Mr Gs credit file, anything else to 
contradict what Mr G had declared and this was his first loan with Ratesetter, I didnt think 
that it was unreasonable for Ratesetter to rely on the information provided. Furthermore, 
even allowing for this there appeared to have been a reasonable margin left over to make 
the loan payments.
I accepted that Mr G might have had difficulty making the payments to this loan and it was 
possible that his circumstances did worsen after the loan was taken out and I was sorry to 
hear this. But I was satisfied that Ratesetters checks before approving this loan were 
proportionate. I also added that while I thought Ratesetters checks were proportionate in 
this instance and so it didnt need to do anything further, I hadnt been provided with 
anything to suggest that further checks would have shown the loan payments to be 
unaffordable either. So, in any event, I couldnt reasonably reach the conclusion that further 
checks would have prevented Ratesetter from bringing about Mr Gs loan either as I hadnt 
been provided with anything to suggest that this was the case. 
I also thought that I needed to explain that it was only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I didnt 
think that Ratesetter did do anything wrong when bringing about Mr Gs loan. The key thing 
here was that it carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments would be 
affordable for him. 
So overall I was minded to conclude that Ratesetter didnt treat Mr G unfairly or 
unreasonably when bringing about his loan. As this was the case and while I sympathised 
with Mr G as a result of any difficulties he might have gone on to have, I set out my intention 
to issue a final decision which didnt uphold the complaint. 
Neither party provided any further comments or information, in response to my provisional 
decision, for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Gs complaint in my provisional decision. As 
neither party has provided any further arguments, Ive not been persuaded to alter my 
conclusions. So Im still not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate thisll be disappointing 
for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel 
his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 7 March 2022, Im 
not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman