DRN-2074287
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale 
agreement financed by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr S acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement. The car was 
six years old and had a mileage of around 53,000 miles.
Mr S says that there were problems with the vehicle shortly after he acquired it, and he took 
it back to the dealership after about a week as the driver side window wasnt working, the 
tyres were making a noise and the engine light was on. 
The noise continued so Mr S took the vehicle to a local garage who told him the tyres hadnt 
been fitted properly. Mr S says he paid approximately £350 for new tyres. A week later, the 
engine light came back on and he took it back to the dealership where a sensor was 
replaced.  
Mr S says that the engine light came on multiple times after the sensor replacement, and he 
took the vehicle to multiple garages to try and diagnose the problem. No mechanical 
problem was found, and a system reset stopped the engine light from coming on. 
In September 2019 Mr S took the vehicle overseas, where the engine management light 
came on. He called a breakdown company and a reset was performed. Mr S then took the 
car to a garage overseas, who suggested that some parts might need replacing. 
Mr S drove the vehicle back to the UK where he broke down, the breakdown company told 
him he had a gearbox problem, and Mr S subsequently received a quote from a garage for 
£2,691.11 to replace the clutch, flywheel and gearbox.
Mr S complained to Moneybarn about the quality of the vehicle in December 2019. They 
responded to his complaint to say that the clutch, flywheel and gearbox could need replacing 
as a result of wear and tear. They said they were unable to inspect the vehicle because 
repairs had been completed already, and they didnt think that any fault was present at the 
point of sale, so they werent responsible for the repairs. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He says that the repairs hadnt 
been completed and Moneybarn couldve inspected the vehicle if theyd wanted to. He 
doesnt think the vehicle was of satisfactory quality. Our investigator looked into things for Mr 
S. They didnt think there was evidence that the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality at the 
time it was supplied to Mr S. 
Mr S hasnt accepted the investigators view, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Moneybarn as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. If this 
implied term is breached, then a consumer is entitled to have things put right by the supplier.
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car, will include 
things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability.
Here, the vehicle was acquired used with a cash price of around £9,000. It was six years old 
and had travelled approximately 53,000 miles at the time of supply. With this in mind, I think 
its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the vehicle might have 
already suffered notable wear and tear, and that theres a greater risk that the vehicle might 
need some repairs or maintenance, sooner than a vehicle that wasnt as road worn when it 
was supplied. 
Ive seen evidence of the sensor replacement provided by Mr S, and the vehicle breakdown 
due to an engine management light whilst overseas. I havent seen any evidence that these 
were linked to the failure of the gearbox in late 2019.  
Mr S has explained that hes had a number of people look at the vehicle and the engine light, 
but I havent seen any evidence that a fault was diagnosed at this stage, or that any repairs 
were undertaken. So, Im not persuaded that there was a fault with the vehicle at this time, or 
that any earlier problems with Mr Ss vehicle were related to the fault with the gearbox in late 
2019.  
At the time of the gearbox fault, the vehicle had travelled approximately 62,000 miles. So, Mr 
S had been able to cover some 9,000 miles in the seven months hed had the vehicle before 
the fault occurred. 
I think, that at six years old and having covered 62,000 miles, Mr Ss car was around the age 
when a reasonable person might start to expect that some relatively serious repairs may be 
needed.  Whilst what has happened is unfortunate, it is the risk of owning an older and 
higher mileage second-hand car like this one. I appreciate that having a car that breaks 
down is a stressful, and may be an expensive, experience for Mr S. That doesnt mean that 
Moneybarn are responsible for the cost of repairs. 
Given the age and mileage of the vehicle at the time that it was supplied, and the use that Mr 
S has had of it since owning it, it seems more likely that the fault is due to fair wear and tear 
rather than an inherent defect with the vehicle. 
I find that, on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not that Mr Ss car was of 
satisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied. Therefore, although Mr S has 
experienced a fault with his car, Moneybarn are not responsible for the cost repairing the 
fault. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman