DRN-1102649
 
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy how Hampson Jones Limited, trading as Ashley Howard, dealt with his 
claim against a payday lender.
What happened
Mr W instructed Hampson Jones to make a number of claims on his behalf. In April 2019 a 
claim with Lender P was successful, and Hampson Jones invoiced Mr W for their fee.
Mr W wasnt happy with the offer made by Lender P, and he didnt accept this. Hampson 
Jones escalated the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service, but the claim was closed 
when it became known that Mr W had cashed the cheque sent to him by Lender P. 
Mr W has complained about how Hampson Jones dealt with his claim and that they closed it 
with the Financial Ombudsman Service without his consent. He feels theyre not interested in 
making sure his claim is correct, only in getting their fees. Hes also complained that 
Hampson Jones contacted him an excessive number of times about accepting the offer.
Our investigator found that Hampson Jones had acted reasonably. She said the Financial 
Ombudsman Service had closed his claim because hed cashed the cheque sent to him by 
Lender P, and not because Hampson Jones had asked them to. She thought it was 
reasonable for Hampson Jones to keep the Financial Ombudsman Service updated with 
what was happening, and this included Mr W cashing the cheque.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He felt that Hampson Jones had acted to close his 
complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service, and were using this to lever payment 
from him.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive listened to the call that took place between Mr W and Hampson Jones on 15 April 2019. 
Mr W said he was unhappy because the offer hed received from Lender P was less than 
hed expected. Hampson Jones said theyd already reviewed the offer and they thought it 
was fair, but they would challenge it if Mr W didnt agree. 
Mr W wanted time to consider his options but said that, if he cashed the cheque, he 
understood this would be classed as him accepting the offer, meaning the claim would be 
closed and he wouldnt be able to challenge any other loans with the same lender. Hampson 
Jones confirmed this was correct. Based on this call I cant say that Mr W didnt know what 
could happen if he cashed the cheque.Between 25 April and 10 May Hampson Jones contacted Mr W on four occasions to ask if 
hed made a decision on accepting the offer. I dont think it was unreasonable they did this. 
And I dont think that four contacts in a two week period is excessive, especially as the first 
contact was 10 days after Hampson Jones first spoke to Mr W about accepting the offer. On 
10 May Mr W told Hampson Jones he didnt accept the offer and they sent him the 
paperwork so this could be challenged through the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Ive seen Hampson Jones sent the challenge to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 31 
May. But on 26 June Lender P told them Mr W had cashed the cheque on 24 April. They 
called the Financial Ombudsman Service on 2 July to discuss this, but were asked to put it in 
writing. The same day they emailed the Financial Ombudsman Service telling them that Mr 
W had cashed the cheque. They explained that this wasnt a full and final offer by Lender P 
and asked if this affected the complaint. Im satisfied that Hampson Jones werent asking for 
the complaint to be closed, but were checking how the complaint may be affected.
But the Financial Ombudsman Service closed the complaint. Ive seen that Mr W contacted 
the Financial Ombudsman Service directly on 22 July, and his complaint was reopened and 
is now under investigation. He also removed Hampson Joness authority to act for him so 
theyre no longer involved. But this doesnt necessarily mean that, once the investigation 
with the Financial Ombudsman Service is complete, Hampson Jones arent able to charge 
for their services - they made the initial claim which resulted in an offer from Lender P, and 
they escalated the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service once Mr W had confirmed he 
wasnt going to accept this. So they did the work they were instructed to do.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman