DRN-3311119
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had travel insurance cover attached to his bank account. His policy was underwritten 
by UKI. 
Mr G booked a trip abroad. He left the UK on 4 March 2020 and his original flight home was 
scheduled for 30 June 2020. However, his return ticket was open ended - so the return flight 
date could have been changed. Mr G has explained he planned to return to the UK within 30 
days because he could only get a 30-day visa for the country he was visiting. 
Whilst abroad Mr G travelled to another country to visit a family member on 12 March 2020. 
But due to the outbreak of Covid-19 Mr G said he got stuck in that country and was unable to 
return to the UK as planned. He stayed with his family member and said he called UKI and 
was told he had up to £1000 cover on his policy.
Mr G managed to return home to the UK on 6 August 2020. He made a claim on his travel 
insurance policy for his additional flight and additional travel expenses. UKI declined cover 
because Mr Gs hadnt purchased the additional trip extension cover so his policy only 
covered trips up to 31 days. UKI said as Mr Gs return ticket was scheduled for 30 June 
2020 his claim wasnt covered. 
Unhappy with this response Mr G complained. UKI considered the complaint and offered Mr 
G £75 compensation for the handling of the claim, but they explained in the absence of any 
evidence that hed attempted to return home within the 31 days, they didnt think their claims 
decision was unfair. 
Mr G referred the matter to this service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and 
she didnt think it was unreasonable for UKI to decline the claim. She also thought the 
compensation UKI had offered was reasonable. 
Mr G disagreed. In summary he remained unhappy that UKI had no record of his call with 
them when he was stuck abroad. He said the misleading information UKI provided on this 
call caused him stress and financial loss. And if hed known he wasnt covered by his 
insurance he wouldve waited longer to return home, when flights were cheaper. 
So now the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate Mr G was in a difficult situation - being abroad when local and UK restrictions 
started to come into place mustve been worrying. Im pleased to hear he was able to stay 
with family whilst he was stuck abroad. It is an unfortunate situation to be in, but most 
insurance policies will not provide cover for every possible eventuality a policyholder may 
need to claim for.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive considered what Mr Gs policy provided cover for. On the first page it says: 
Is your trip for more than 31 days?
This policy covers you for trips of up to 31 days. If your trip is longer you can purchase a Trip 
Extension Upgrade. This must be done before your departure from the UK. 
Under the section Operation of cover it states: 
Trip length
This policy provides cover for trips of up to 31 days. If your return to your home area is 
delayed beyond the scheduled end date of your trip for reasons outside your control we will 
automatically extend cover until your new return date. 
A trip is defined under the policy as:
A journey that begins and ends at your home during the period of insurance. 
Under the general exclusions of the policy it says: 
Changes that may affect your cover
You must tell us as soon as possible about any changes that could affect your cover, for 
example if:
 You book a trip lasting more than 31 days.
If you are not sure whether a change may affect your cover, please contact us 
What we will do when you tell us about a change
We will let you know what cover you have following the change. If cover has been restricted 
or removed you may be able to re-instate it by arranging an upgrade.
What happens if you dont tell us about a change
If you dont give us correct information or tell us about any changes:
 Your policy may be invalid.
 We may reject your claim.
 We may not pay your claim in full
The policy also explains if you are planning a longer trip you can extend your cover by 
buying a Trip Extension Upgrade
Under the section about cutting short a trip, the relevant terms say:
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if you have 
to cut your trip short, including:
 Unused commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.
Reasons for cutting short your trip 5. FCO travel advice: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advice against All travel or All but 
essential travel to your destination, provided that advice came into force after your departure 
on your trip.
Was it unreasonable for UK to decline the claim? 
I dont think it was unreasonable to UKI to decline the claim. 
Firstly, Mr G said he had planned to return to the UK within 30 days as he could only get a 
30-day visa for Dubai. He explained he only scheduled a flight home in June because it was 
cheaper at the time of booking and he knew it could be changed. However, the government 
website for the country he was visiting states tourist visas can be extended for a duration of 
up to 90 days. So, I dont agree that Mr Gs trip could only have ever been for 30 days based 
on visa restrictions.  
As Mr G had booked a return flight for well beyond 30 days, and he was able to stay in the 
country for up to 90 days, I think it was reasonable for UKI to ask for further evidence and 
information about Mr Gs original travel plans. Thats because, on the face of the available 
evidence, Mr Gs longer trip wasnt covered by the policy.  
As Mr G didnt take out any trip extension upgrade, I think it was fair for UKI to only provide 
cover for the first 31 days of his trip because this is the level of cover hed purchased. As Mr 
G scheduled his original return flight on a date after his cover had ended, I dont think there 
are reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask UKI to cover the cost of his return 
flight, because there is no evidence it wouldve ever been covered.   
Secondly, Mr G argues that he couldnt have cut short his trip as he couldnt have returned 
home within the 31 day trip limit due to the various travel restrictions that were in place. Ive 
therefore considered whether it was still fair and reasonable for UKI to decline the claim and 
I think it was.   
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Mr G left the country he was in and travelled to another country to visit a family member on 
12 March 2020. He said hed planned to stay there up to a week visiting his niece, but then 
restrictions came into force, so he was unable to leave the country.
Ive considered the relevant guidance on travel during the relevant time. The Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. And 
in the country where Mr G was, the Government began implementing travel restrictions on 
22 March 2020 and their lockdown restrictions started on 24 March. The FCO also advised 
all UK citizens to return home on 23 March 2020. 
Mr G hasnt provided evidence that he made attempts to return home when the FCDO 
advice changed. Although hes provided some evidence that repatriation flights didnt start 
until April 2020 this hasnt changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. Mr G 
didnt return home until August 2020 and I think its reasonable for UKI to ask for some 
evidence that Mr G was attempting to comply with the FCDO advice and cut short his trip. 
So, even if I accepted that repatriation flights didnt start until April 2020, I still think its 
reasonable for UKI to ask for further supporting evidence to demonstrate that he was making 
reasonable attempts to cut short his trip in line with FCDO advice.
Mr G feels strongly about a call that took place whilst he was stuck abroad. He argues he 
was told incorrect information because UKI said he could claim up to £1000. UKI havent 
been able to locate this call but theyve confirmed a manager has searched for it on their listening systems using the numbers provided by Mr G. But nothing relevant came out of the 
searches between March and August 2020. So, Im satisfied that UKI has made reasonable 
attempts to locate the calls and hasnt been able to do so. 
But even if UKI could retrieve the call, I dont think it would change my opinion.  Mr G would 
have always had to return to the UK, and he said he came home as soon as he was able to. 
So Im not persuaded Mr G would have done anything differently. As Ive outlined above 
Mr G didnt return home until August 2020, several months after repatriation flights were 
available. I note that the airline provider gave him cancellations options, but it was Mr Gs 
choice to accept a cash refund a claim on his insurance, rather than extend his flight expiry 
date. And, as is standard industry practice, UKI is entitled to ask for evidence in support of 
any claim submitted by a policyholder. 
Ive gone on to think about the compensation UKI have offered for the delay in informing 
Mr G his claim wasnt covered. I acknowledge the stress and health concerns Mr G has said 
this whole experience has caused him. And Im sorry to hear this. Ive considered the 
timeline of events and can see it was a few weeks from when Mr G sent in his flight 
information at the end of October, until UKI confirmed the scheduled return home flight 
meant the trip was outside the policy cover period. So, whist I appreciate this wouldve been 
frustrating and upsetting for Mr G, I think overall the compensation is fair for the few weeks 
in question.
I appreciate that Mr G was in a difficult situation. His immediate focus was keeping safe and 
following the local regulations, which is understandable. As a result, he decided to stay in the 
country he was in with his family member. His flight home was never changed, and he didnt 
return home on the original booking. He ended up paying for a new flight home and incurred 
additional travel costs. However, whilst I understand Mr Gs reasons for staying abroad, 
unfortunately there is no cover for the situation in which he found himself in. 
Although the cost of his return flight he wasnt covered, Mr G did still have the other benefits 
of his insurance policy before he left the UK and for 31 days of his trip.
I understand this is disappointing as I can see Mr G feels strongly about his claim. But Im 
satisfied UKI were fair to decline this claim based on the available evidence around the trip 
dates. And I dont think the £75 compensation is reasonable for poor claims handling during 
an unprecedented time. So I wont be asking UKI to do any further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman