The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the way Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (trading as Cabot 
Financial (Europe) Limited) has dealt with him in relation to old debts.
What happened
Mr T had two credit accounts with two different businesses and, after falling into financial 
difficulty, Cabot purchased the debt from the two credit providers. While Mr T doesnt dispute 
that he has these accounts, he doesnt agree he owes the amount Cabot are asking him to 
repay. 
Mr T has complained that:
Cabot wont give him a statement of account or other documentary evidence
regarding the amount they are asking him to repay.
Cabot is pursuing him for a debt that is unenforceable as it hasnt provided copies of
his original credit agreements, statements and related documents, so he thinks
Cabot should write off or reduce his debts.
The original decision to give him the credit in each instance was unfair as each time it
was unaffordable and it was apparent he was likely to fall further into debt.
Cabot has added charges to the debt, and has aggressively and unfairly pressured
him into making payments.
Mr T is being represented in this complaint by a solicitor.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts concerns. He found Cabot hadnt done anything 
wrong. He said that even though Cabot arent able to provide Mr T with the documentation 
hes asking for, because the credit providers have this, this didnt mean that Mr T doesnt 
have to repay the debt. However, Cabot agreed the debt was unenforceable until it had 
supplied some of the documentation sought.
The investigator couldnt see that Cabot had added any charges to the debt, and there was 
nothing to show that Cabot had been aggressive in their communication with Mr T. He also 
said that only a court could decide whether a debt was legally enforceable and agreed with 
Cabot that, because they werent responsible for the original lending, Mr T would need to 
complain to the original credit providers about any irresponsible lending.
Cabot agreed with the investigator but Mr Ts solicitors didnt. They say Mr T disputes that a 
debt is owed and feel Cabots inability to provide documents and information about the 
alleged debt is stopping Mr T from resolving his debts, and is having an effect on his credit 
rating. Theyve said Cabot will probably never be able to demonstrate a sum is outstanding 
and so a fair outcome would be for Cabot to write off the alleged debt outstanding. They also 
DRN-1012322believe Cabot is purchasing debts without doing sufficient due diligence to ensure they are 
properly due.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint is now with me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for the same reasons. 
It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide on what policies financial 
businesses have in place when they purchase debt. This is a decision Cabot can make in 
line with its regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority. Because of this I wont comment on 
any due diligence. 
Mr T has accepted that he had two credit accounts, with two providers, and he initially 
agreed that theres a balance outstanding on them, though his solicitors have now said this 
isnt true. 
Ive seen evidence that Cabot has bought this debt from the credit providers, and Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that they cant ask Mr T to make payments towards this.
But Cabot has said that the debt is currently unenforceable. However, they also say it 
doesnt mean they cant ask Mr T to make repayments. Ultimately, whether a debt is 
enforceable is not something I can comment on. As our investigator explained, its for a court 
to decide if a debt is legally enforceable.
Mr T has said Cabots actions are affecting his credit rating, but I havent seen a copy of his 
credit file. Because of this, and as there are a number of factors that make up a credit rating, 
I cant say what impact, if any, this may have had.
Mr T has also said Cabot has aggressively and unfairly pressured him into making 
payments, and added charges to his account, but Ive seen no evidence to support this. 
I understand Mr Ts frustration that Cabot cant provide him with the documentation hes 
asked for. This is because the original credit providers have this, and they havent given it to 
Cabot. I cant expect Cabot to give Mr T something they dont have and cant get. If Mr T 
wants this, he might want to ask the original credit providers for it. The credit providers could 
also answer Mr Ts concerns over the fairness of giving him the credit as this was their 
responsibility. Because of this, I wont be asking Cabot to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Cabot Credit 
Management Group Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman