DRN-2635773
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank PLC(Lloyds) dealt with her complaint about mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out alongside some loans.
What happened
Mrs C took out PPI policies alongside a number of loans. Some of the loans were in the joint 
name of her and her ex-husband but two of the loans were in her name only. 
When Mrs C brought her complaint to this service, she submitted it in the joint names of 
herself and her ex-husband but has since said the complaint we are looking at should only 
be in her name. As the complaint was initially indicated as in joint names, we contacted Mr C 
also. However, he has been asked if he wanted to continue with a complaint but has not 
responded. Therefore, this complaint and decision is only in relation to Mrs C and the 
compensation she is due for PPI sold with her loans.
When Mrs C complained to Lloyds that PPI had been mis-sold, it said one of the loans, 
reference ending 4201, was only in Mrs Cs name. Lloyds agreed this PPI was mis-sold and 
offered compensation of £621.30 to settle the complaint and sent a cheque for this amount 
to Mrs C.
With regard to five other loans, all but the last one, ending 2101, were in the joint names of 
Mr and Mrs C. The five loans were in a chain, each loan refinancing the next. Lloyds had 
agreed the PPI on three of the first four joint loans had been mis-sold. These were joint 
loans and the compensation was due to both Mrs C and Mr C.
For loan ending 2101, the fifth in the chain, Lloyds wrote on 28 August 2020 offering 
compensation for the mis-sale, indicating a cheque would be sent within 28 days. A few days 
later Lloyds sent a cheque that was made out to Mr and Mrs C. 
Mrs C contacted Lloyds on 9 September 2020 and requested that the compensation be sent 
separately to her and her ex-husband. Mrs C chased for the payment and when by October 
she had not received it, she brought her complaint to this service. 
Around the time Mrs C brought her complaint to this service Lloyds wrote to her, on 12 
October 2020, saying that following her contact about the payment by cheque it had looked 
again at the complaint and realised only Mrs C was responsible for the loan ending 2101. 
Therefore, the amount of compensation offered, £4,159.96, in the letter of 28 August 2020 
was due solely to Mrs C. And Lloyds then paid the compensation into Mrs Cs bank account.
Mrs C is unhappy that she had to wait so long for Lloyds to resolve the payment of the 
compensation as she says she was being chased by a Claims Management Company 
(CMC) for payment of its fee. She also says she paid half of the payment made to her bank 
account by Lloyds in October 2020 to Mr C as she thought he was entitled to half. But as this 
was not the case, she says that it is Lloyds fault as originally it made the payment by a 
cheque in joint names and that was misleading. So Mrs C is seeking additional 
compensation for the delay in the payment being made and also for the fact she has paid 
some of the compensation to Mr C.
Our adjudicator said the offer and what Lloyds had done and ultimately paid to Mrs C was 
fair and nothing more was due.
Mrs C remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has agreed to uphold Mrs Cs s complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. Therefore, in 
this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking at what is 
fair compensation to settle this complaint. 
The compensation offered and paid for the mis-sold PPI with loan 4201 was paid by cheque 
to Mrs C as this loan was in her name alone. The compensation offered for this PPI policy 
has been accepted by Mrs C, so I am not considering this further. 
With regard to loan 2101, this loan and PPI was also solely in Mrs Cs name. But the 
previous loan that this fifth loan refinanced had been in joint names, as were three earlier 
loans in this chain of loans. It seems as loan 2101 was the last in the chain, when 
considering the compensation for this Lloyds made an error in sending the compensation out 
by cheque in joint names. It was only when Mrs C contacted Lloyds about the payment that it 
realised this compensation was due solely to Mrs C because she was the only one 
responsible by this loan.
Lloyds contacted both Mr C and Mrs C separately on 12 October 2020, indicating in both 
letters that this letter superseded totally the letter sent on 28 August 2020. The letter 
apologised and explained to Mr C that he wasnt due any compensation for the PPI with this 
loan 2101. The letter also indicated that he had already received compensation to settle the 
complaint about mis-sold PPI on the joint loans, so he was due nothing more. 
The letter to Mrs C explained that following her contact on 9 September 2020 about the 
compensation paid by joint cheque, Lloyds cancelled the cheque and looked again at the 
compensation payment and realised only Mrs C was responsible for the loan ending 2101. 
Therefore, the amount of compensation offered, £4,159.96, in the letter of 28 August 2020 
was due solely to Mrs C. Lloyds then updated the amount of compensatory interest to 
October 2020 and paid a total of £4,260.88 into Mrs Cs bank account.
Mrs C says after receiving the letter in August 2020 and the cheque in joint names, she 
contacted Lloyds about the payment in early September but didnt hear anything back, and 
she then discovered that the cheque had been cancelled.  She chased the payment from 
Lloyds again and having not received the payment by early October, brought her complaint 
to this service.
Lloyds did make an error initially in sending out the cheque in joint names for the mis-sold 
PPI and offer, related to loan 2101, which was a loan solely in Mrs Cs name. But as this was 
the fifth loan in the chain, with all previous loans being in joint names, it can be seen how 
this occurred. Once the problem with the cheque was identified by Mrs C, Lloyds took action 
to cancel the cheque and it looked again at the facts surrounding the loans.The time scale Lloyds took, from 9 September 2020 to 12 October 2020 to cancel the 
cheque and identify the correct situation was only some four weeks. This is a reasonable 
timescale for a business to act on changing a payment and Lloyds did clarify on 12 October 
to both Mr C and Mrs C that the payment was due to her alone. The payment of the 
compensation went into Mrs Cs bank account on 14 October 2020 by which time it should 
have been clear to Mrs C the payment made was for her alone. And Mr C would have known 
from the letter sent to him he had already been paid any compensation due to him and was 
to receive nothing more.
The original letter of 28 August 2020 indicated payment would be made within 28 days, that 
would be by 25 September 2020. In fact the cheque payment was made very quickly and the 
final transfer to Mrs Cs account was made on 14 October 2020. So it was only 19 days after 
the expiry of the 28 day period that final payment was made. And additional compensatory 
interest was paid. So the delay was not long and was also compensated for.
Mrs C made the decision to pay Mr C part of the compensation paid into her bank after the 
letter sent on 12 October 2020, but that was her choice. It is between Mrs C and Mr C, who it 
seems are in contact, to resolve any issues about payments made to each other and 
between themselves. That is not something Lloyds is responsible for. Lloyds did clarify in its 
letter to Mrs C of 12 October 2020 that the offer in this letter superseded the offer in the 
letter of 28 August 2020. It also showed in the calculations in this letter that no further 
compensation was due for the joint loans and the compensation offered was only for the PPI 
on loan 2101, which was solely in Mrs Cs name.  
I understand Mrs C was being chased by a CMC, but Lloyds cannot be held responsible for 
that. If Mrs C has concerns about the actions taken by this CMC, then she can make a 
complaint about the actions of that company separately to that company. 
Lloyds did the right thing in cancelling the joint cheque and then correcting the situation. And 
this only took just over one month from 9 September to 14 October to resolve the situation 
and for the payment to be made into Mrs Cs account. This is not an unreasonable amount 
of time and the delay was only minimal for Mrs C to receive the correct payment. She has 
also received additional compensatory interest to provide additional compensation for the 
delay.
Overall I think what Lloyds has offered and paid to Mrs C for the mis-sold PPI policies in her 
sole name is fair. Additional compensatory interest has been paid to compensate for the 
delay in the receipt of payment by Mrs C. Any payments Mrs C made from the compensation 
after receipt are her responsibility. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has paid to 
Mrs C for the mis-sold PPI associated with loans in her name is fair and I am not upholding 
this complaint that any further compensation is due. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman