DRN-3603112
Complaint
Miss B has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (Clydesdale) rejected 
her claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Miss B bought solar panel system (the system) for her home in 2013. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Clydesdale, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and 
omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, Miss B alleges that the 
installer misled Miss B into believing that the system would pay for itself by around 6 and a 
half years.
Clydesdale agreed to uphold Miss Bs complaint. However, it said that the income and 
savings that Miss B was likely to receive over a 10-year period, outweighed the cost of the 
system. So, it didnt think any compensation was due to her. 
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He agreed with Clydesdales 
view, that Miss B had suffered no financial loss. 
Miss B disagreed. She didnt understand how Clydesdale could predict what her future 
savings would be. She reiterated that she was led to believe the financial benefits generated 
by the system would result in the system paying for itself within 6 and a half years. As she 
remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me for a final review. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to clarify that Clydesdale already accepts that the system was misrepresented 
to Miss B, and it therefore upheld her complaint. The only matter left for me to decide, is 
whether any compensation is due to her. 
It may be helpful to explain that typically, solar panels have a lifespan of between 20-30 
years. And consumers will receive financial benefits from the system during that time. So, 
while a consumers loan may only be for 5, 10 or 15 years, the solar panels will continue to 
produce benefits over the lifetime of the solar panel system. 
Where we uphold a complaint, we have an established approach to redress. We ask 
businesses to work out how much a customer is likely to receive in benefits over a 10-year 
period and ensure a customer pays no more than that for the system. This means that a 
customer never pays more for the system than theyll likely receive from the system over a 
10-year period. Any financial benefits received after the 10-year period are for the 
consumers to keep. 
I appreciate Miss B was told the system would pay for itself within six and half years. But the 
purpose of the redress isnt to make the misrepresentation true, but to ensure she suffers no 
loss due to the misrepresentation. Because a consumer can expect to benefit from the solar 
panels for at least 20 years, I think a 10-year period is reasonable when calculating the 
redress. In this specific case, I do not think a shorter period would strike the appropriate 
balance in terms of fairness.
I would add that, businesses look at actual performance of the system where its available 
and make a number of assumptions about the systems likely performance where needed to 
carry out the calculation. I appreciate Miss Bs concerns about future performance and the 
savings the system will produce going forward. However, no one can know with certainty 
what will happen in the future, but this is a sensible way to calculate whether any 
compensation is due and is an option that I think is fair and reasonable. 
Clydesdale has carried out this calculation and worked out that the likely benefits the system 
will produce over 10 years is £7,367.18. Miss B repaid her loan early so only paid £5,851.12 
in total for her system. This means shes paid out less than the total benefit the system will 
produce over a 10-year period. So, no redress is due to her. 
Ive looked at the calculation carried out by Clydesdale and it looks like it has been worked 
out in line with our approach to these cases. 
I understand Miss B has since moved out of the property where the system is installed so 
she is not receiving any further benefit. However, she moved out of her property of her own 
accord, and when she moved out of the house, she ought to have been aware that, as she 
was leaving the system, she wont be receiving any benefit. So, while she wont receive 
benefits going forward, I dont think Clydesdale needs to consider this as this hasnt been 
caused by the mis-sale of the system. 
Having carefully considered Miss Bs comments, while I sympathise with her concerns, I 
dont think Clydesdale needs to pay any compensation to Miss B for the misrepresentations 
made by the installer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman