DRN-3177947
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the fee The Protection Specialist Limited trading as The Fair Trade 
Practice (TPS) has asked him to pay for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
claim.
 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr S signed a letter of authority (LoA) instructing TPS to check if hed any PPI. 
In November 2019, TPS told Mr S that PPI had been found on a mortgage account with his 
lender, Ill call B. In March 2020, B said that as Mr S had been made bankrupt his claim 
would be closed until they received a claim from the official receiver or trustee. In August 
2020, Mr S sent TPS confirmation that the bankruptcy had been annulled. In February 2021, 
Mr S said as he hadnt heard anything about his claim he contacted B and found his claim 
was still closed. Following which his claim was reopened and B at the end of March 2021 
accepted theyd mis-sold PPI to him and made an offer of compensation.
In April 2021, TPS sent a letter advising Mr S his claim was successful and asked him to 
sign the acceptance form which he did. Shortly after TPS asked Mr S to pay their success 
fee. Mr S complained to TPS as he said his claim wouldnt have been reopened except for 
his contact with B. He accepted TPS had done some work but didnt think they justified the 
fee they asked him to pay. He asked for the fee to be reduced by £1,800.
TPS said theyd been instructed to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim for Mr S and theyd done 
this. And as the claim was successful their success fee was justified. 
Mr S didnt agree and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that TPS had submitted the mis-sold PPI claim and it was as a result of 
this that the claim was successful. But she said there had been unnecessary delay in getting 
the claim resolved that had caused trouble and upset for Mr S. She asked TPS to pay Mr S 
£150 in recognition of this.
Mr S didnt agree, he said without his intervention his claim would have remained closed, 
and that TPS had failed to meet their own terms and conditions. He asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im partially upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr S signed a LoA, in July 2019 instructing TPS to pursue a mis-sold 
PPI claim on his behalf. And by signing the LoA he agreed to their terms and conditions. So, 
I dont need to consider whether TPS was authorised to act for Mr S. But I need to determine 
whether their success fee is justified. And whether TPS have acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions with Mr S.
The agreement Mr S would have had with TPS was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
TPS charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, TPS fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually 
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
I know Mr S doesnt think his claim would have been successful without his intervention. But 
I dont think that was the case. Ive checked TPS records and his claim remained active. 
And TPS had sent the bankruptcy annulment papers to B in August 2020 which I can see 
was done, not only from TPS records but also from the letter from B to Mr S. In this letter  
B confirms his case was correctly reopened on receipt of the papers from TPS in August 
2020. But B didnt take any action until Mr S contacted them in February 2021. I cant hold 
TPS responsible for the actions of B. But Ive looked to see what TPS has done about Mr 
S claim.
From checking TPS records, in November 2020, theyd moved Mr S case to Awaiting 
Assessment for FOS.  TPS said this was their process when awaiting a response from the 
lender. TPS has said this would mean the claim would appear on a weekly report to ensure   
the claim was kept under review. And in February 2021 they saw that the LoA held on record 
was over six months old and so they asked Mr S to sign a new LoA, which he did. They also 
wrote to the court that issued the bankruptcy annulment to check whether they would hold 
any interest in any monies awarded from a PPI claim. But I cant see they asked B for any 
update.
Mr S has rightly said there wasnt a requirement for TPS to ask for this information from the 
court as hed sent the annulment papers to them. I agree with him as the letter from B 
confirms this as outlined above his claim had been reopened in August 2020. But it does 
show that TPS was still actively pursuing Mr S claim. But before theyd any response from 
the court B told them Mr S claim was successful.  
While I think Mr S prompted B into action I think from TPSs notes that it was their contact 
in early February 2021 and subsequent discussions that resulted in Mr S taking this action. 
And I think B would have been contacted by TPS at around this time once theyd a 
response from the court as TPS has shown they still had the claim under review.
TPS terms and conditions say: 
4.5 You agree that while your contract with us is in force you will not:
 (b) have direct contact with the lender about a claim without our agreement
So, Mr S could have asked TPS to contact B but chose to do this himself.
But TPSs terms and conditions also say:
During the time TPS is investigating your claim we will provide monthly updates to you via 
email, as well as maintaining regular contact with you via telephone calls, texts and emails.
This is more than required by the relevant guidance which says  a firm must provide each 
customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least every six months. 
(CMCOB 6.1.9)But as TPS would expect Mr S to abide by the terms and conditions he agreed to I would 
also expect TPS to follow their own terms and conditions. And from TPS notes I can see 
there was a void in contact with Mr S from November 2020 to February 2021. And I cant see 
evidence that TPS chased B for updates about the claim after theyd sent the bankruptcy 
annulment papers. I understand this was during difficult times for businesses given the 
change in working practises with the pandemic. But by them not chasing B for an update, 
instead choosing to contact the court who issued the bankruptcy, I think this did cause Mr S 
some trouble and upset.
So, as I think Mr S claim was submitted by TPS prior to the August 2019 deadline, and the 
claim was successful. I think TPS is justified in charging their success fee. But I agree with 
our investigator that there was some poor service from TPS that caused Mr S trouble and 
upset. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed by my decision. But its not our role to punish a business 
and I think £150 compensation for trouble and upset is in line with our approach.
my final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask The Protection Specialist Limited trading as The 
Fair Trade Practice to pay Mr S £150 for trouble and upset.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman