DRN-1272276
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined her pet insurance 
claim. My references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
Mrs H had pet insurance for her cat through a high-street brand from May 2018 to 2019. The 
insurer was RSA. Mrs H bought the same policy for cover from May 2019 to May 2020. 
Shortly after the May 2019 cover started Mrs Hs cat had a leg injury and she claimed for the 
vet treatment.
RSA declined the claim. It said Mrs H had taken out a new policy rather than renew her 
existing policy. The vet treatment was in the first 14 days of the new policy, which was 
excluded from cover. 
RSA said shortly before renewal in May 2019 Mrs H called it about renewing her existing 
policy but she was undecided and agreed to call it back if she wanted to renew. RSA said it 
had been clear to Mrs H that she needed to call back to renew the existing policy. Instead, 
she took out a new policy online which gave clear information about no cover for the first 
14 days of the policy.
Mrs H complained to us and wants her claim paid. She said she renewed the policy online, 
even though the premium was slightly more than RSA quoted on the phone, as she was 
already online and didnt want the inconvenience of spending more time calling RSA. She 
said RSA was being unfair, there was no gap between the two policies which were 
effectively the same and none of her or her cats details had changed. 
Our investigator said RSA fairly declined the claim.
Mrs H disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said RSA was relying on a 
technicality to decline a valid claim.
Before I made a decision I asked RSA to provide the recording of its call with Mrs H where 
policy renewal was discussed. RSA sent the call and other information which Ill refer to in 
my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
As Mrs H took out a new policy rather than renew the existing policy RSA could technically 
decline the claim as the vet treatment occurred in the first 14 days of the new policy which 
the policy clearly excludes.
However, I have to decide whats fair and reasonable. I think Mrs H made a mistake when 
she took out a new policy rather than renewing her existing policy and I understand why 
shes annoyed RSA wont pay the claim. But after careful consideration I think RSA can fairly 
decline the claim.
Ive listened to the relevant call. RSAs representative gave Mrs H a discount on the 
premium it had quoted in its renewal letter and at the end of the call Mrs H says shell get 
back to RSA. Importantly, RSAs representative tells Mrs H that as long as she calls it back 
before renewal to cancel or go through with it RSA will put the renewal through. So RSA was 
very clear about what Mrs H needed to do to renew the policy.
Mrs H didnt call back RSA and I dont think Mrs H could reasonably understand that she 
was renewing her existing policy when she bought a new policy online. 
The online sale process doesnt refer to renewal of a policy. Mrs H would have been told on 
several occasions during the sale process about the first 14 days exclusion period, which 
was also clear in the new policy covering letter and policy schedule. So I think RSA gave 
Mrs H clear information that she was entering into a new set of policy terms and the first 
14 days exclusion applied. RSA also sent Mrs H a letter saying her old policy had been 
cancelled so I dont think she could reasonably believe the old policy had been renewed.
In the circumstances RSA could fairly rely on the new policy terms to decline the claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman