DRN-2767134
The complaint
Mr S complains Santander UK Plc acted unfairly when it said he would need a mobile phone 
in order to continue using online banking.
What happened
Mr S has an account with Santander with a debit card. Hes an elderly gentleman whos 
comfortable using online banking on his computer at home.
Santander emailed Mr S in July 2019 to say that it would be making changes to how its 
customers logged into online banking and authorised certain payments. Santander said that 
the changes meant its customers might have to confirm their identity through its mobile app 
or a one-time passcode (OTP) sent to their mobile in certain circumstances. Santander 
said that it was making these changes as a result of new regulations that were coming into 
effect in September 2019 affecting the whole banking sector. Santander said that these 
measures were designed to help prevent fraud and increase the security of online payments.
Mr S complained to Santander about the changes it planned to make. He said that he didnt 
own a mobile phone  and didnt need one  and couldnt go into branch to carry out all the 
transactions he wanted to. He said he didnt see why Santander couldnt send an OTP to his 
landline. He said he couldnt see how that would put him at risk of fraud as hed be logging 
onto his computer when the OTP arrived, and the OTP could only be used for limited 
purposes. He said hed heard of other banks sending OTPs to landlines, and to email too.
Santander investigated Mr Ss complaint and said that there were alternative ways he could 
access his account and make payments. Santander said, for example, that Mr S could use 
its telephone banking services and could go into branch. Santander said that it was aware 
other banks offered different options, but it required its customers to confirm their identity 
either through its mobile banking app or by providing an OTP sent to their mobile phone. In 
the meantime, Santander said that it was exploring options for customers who didnt have 
access to a mobile phone and would say more once it had made a decision about that. Mr S 
was unhappy with Santanders response so complained to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and agreed that Santander hadnt 
acted fairly. Our investigator said that Santander should have offered Mr S alternative ways 
of authenticating himself that didnt rely on a mobile phone. So they recommended that 
Santander pay Mr S £250 in compensation and offer him alternative ways of authenticating 
himself.
Santander agreed to our investigators recommendation of compensation and offered to 
send OTPs to Mr Ss email address so that he could log onto online banking. In addition, 
Santander agreed to make an exception for Mr S so that he wouldnt be asked to 
authenticate himself if he used his card for online shopping whilst it came up with non-mobile 
options. However, Santander said that sometimes Mr Ss transactions might be flagged for 
security. Santander wasnt willing to send OTPs to Mr Ss landline or email address so that 
he could make payments to new payees using his online banking. Santander said that this 
wasnt a service it had offered before the changes. As Santander didnt agree to our 
investigators recommendations, I was asked to consider this complaint. Mr S was happy 
with what our investigator had said and sent us additional information explaining why he 
didnt have a mobile.
Having looked into Mr Ss complaint, and to make sure both parties understood in detail my 
reasoning, I issued a Provisional Decision setting out my thoughts on this complaint in 
considerable detail. I agreed with the recommendation our investigator had made, namely 
that Santander should pay Mr S £250 in compensation and offer him an alternative way of 
authenticating himself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander told Mr S that it was making changes to the way its customers logged into online 
banking and authorised certain payments. Santander told Mr S that these changes were as 
a result of new regulations that were going to come into effect in September 2019 that 
affected the whole banking sector.
Santander is right that new regulations came into effect in September 2019  the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Santander is also right that these regulations affected 
the whole banking sector. The regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to 
apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set 
out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, 
and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, 
with the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The way Santander has gone about those checks  and the reliance it has 
placed on mobile phones to perform those checks  is at the heart of this complaint.
Santanders approach to implementing strong customer authentication - 2019
Santander told Mr S in July 2019 that it would be making changes to how he banked and 
shopped online as a result of new regulations. Santander told Mr S that:
if he logged into his online banking, hed be asked to provide his security number and 
user ID and then pass a second check. The nature of the second check would depend 
on whether he used Santanders mobile app or not. If he did, hed be asked to use his 
fingerprint, face or security number. If he didnt, hed be asked to use an OTP that would 
be sent to a device linked to him.
hed sometimes be asked to complete extra security if he was shopping online. The 
additional check would again depend on whether he used Santanders mobile app or not. 
If he did, hed be asked to use his fingerprint, face or security number. If he didnt, hed 
be asked to use an OTP that would be sent to a device linked to him.
In other words, Santander told Mr S that hed soon have to pass either an inherence based 
check (his fingerprint or face), a knowledge based check (his security number) and / or a 
possession based check (providing the OTP) if he was logging into his online banking or 
shopping online. Santander told Mr S that if he needed an OTP it couldnt be sent to his 
landline or an email address  it would have to be sent to a mobile phone. Why did Mr S complain?
Mr S has told us that he has a computer at home which he uses for his online banking  and 
that he finds online banking really useful. It allows him, for example, to download transaction 
details so he can answer questions about when he last paid someone or how often hes paid 
someone more easily. In addition, Mr S has told us that doesnt own a mobile phone and 
doesnt feel he needs one as hes never needed to make a call away from home. Finally, 
hes told us that he cant see how someone could use an OTP sent to his landline to perform 
fraud if hes sat at home using his computer when an OTP is sent to him. So, hes happy for 
Santander to send an OTP to his landline, or his email address.
Mr S has told us that his local branch is half a mile away and that he was having to go there 
to make payments to set up new payees and make payments to other payees because 
Santander wont send an OTP to his landline, or his email address. Hes told us that this isnt 
always convenient, meaning he cant always do the transactions he wants to make. Thats 
now changed  see below. But it meant that Mr S couldnt make payments to new payees 
using his online banking from home.
I accept that Mr S doesnt own or want a mobile phone  he has no need for one  and Ive 
seen no evidence that he has another mobile device, such as a tablet. Nor would I expect 
him to do so given that he has no need for a mobile and is happy to use his computer at 
home in order to go online. So, I can understand why he complained about Santanders 
decision to send customers who dont use its mobile app OTPs to mobile phones only. He 
was worried it would mean he wouldnt be able to use online banking from home  putting 
him at a disadvantage.
Its important to note that Mr S isnt complaining about Santanders decision to introduce 
strong customer authentication, which is an important measure designed to combat fraud, 
and one that PSPs are obliged to implement. And hes not complaining about having to 
complete additional checks either. I dont think Mr S would have complained had Santander 
offered to send the OTP to his landline or email address so he could pass the extra checks 
Santander was introducing. In short, his only complaint is about Santanders decision to 
send the OTP he now needs to authenticate himself to mobile phones only.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical 
understanding of the requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will 
experience regulatory supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate 
ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and 
rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Santanders approach to strong customer authentication  January 2022
Santanders approach to strong customer has, in its own words, evolved since 2019 when 
Mr S originally complained. By January 2022, for example, Santander had already agreed to 
send OTPs by email to consumers who want to log into their online banking and had already 
agreed to send OTPs by email to consumers who want to shop online. Ive said what I think 
of Santanders evolved approach later on in this decision. But first its right that I decide 
whether or not Santanders actions  when Mr S originally complained in 2019  were fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Should Santander have done more for Mr S when he originally complained?
Mr S has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone and doesnt feel he needs one. So Ive 
taken the papers the FCA has published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts 
 particularly in relation to people who do not possess a mobile  into account when deciding 
whether or not Santander should have done more when Mr S originally complained and 
whether or not its actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive 
taken the Payment Services Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as 
FCA Principle 6  that firms must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of 
Santander to implement strong customer authentication  its an important measure to help 
combat fraud. Nor do I think it was unfair or unreasonable of Santander to decide that it was 
going to use OTPs to help authenticate its customers. I do, however, think that it was unfair 
and unreasonable of Santander not to have offered Mr S alternative ways of authenticating 
when he complained. Ill explain why.
The FCA has said  and I think its fair and reasonable  that in its view firms should be 
giving their customers several different ways to authenticate themselves, and not just rely on 
mobile phones, so that authentication works for all groups of consumers. It follows that I 
dont think it was fair or reasonable that Santander didnt have an alternative way someone 
like Mr S could authenticate himself that didnt rely on a mobile phone when he complained. 
He should, in my opinion, have been able to log onto his online banking and make payments 
from his computer at home, rather than being forced to go to his local branch to do so  
something I accept wasnt always convenient for Mr S.
Santander accepted that other firms were able to offer alternatives ways of authenticating  
such as sending OTPs to a landline or by email  when Mr S complained, so I dont see why 
it couldnt have done so too. Santander, like the rest of the industry, had by then had several years to prepare for strong customer authentication. Instead of coming up with alternative 
ways of authenticating  as many other businesses had by then  Santander suggested that 
Mr S use its telephone banking services or go into branch if he wanted to continue to access 
his account or make payments. I can see what Santander was trying to say here, but I think 
its missed the point. The FCA has been clear that businesses should be offering customers 
alternative ways to authenticate themselves. What Santander was offering Mr S  when it 
suggested he could use its telephone banking services or go into branch instead  were 
alternatives to online banking rather than alternative ways to authenticate himself. For 
someone like Mr S, who wanted to be able to use online banking, wanted to be able to do so 
from his home and didnt always find it convenient to go into branch, I dont think that was 
fair and reasonable. I should add that suggesting to someone who wants to be able to use 
online banking from home, particularly someone who doesnt find it convenient going into 
branch, that theyre able to continue banking by going into branch isnt particularly helpful. I 
should add also that Santanders insistence that Mr S use a mobile phone to authenticate 
himself feels like a failure to design a service in an inclusive way. Hes an elderly gentleman, 
and like many elderly people doesnt own and doesnt want to own a mobile phone.
Has Santander done enough now that its approach has evolved?
Santanders approach to strong customer authentication has evolved several times since 
Mr S originally complained in November 2019 and having given a deadline to make any final 
comments on my Provisional Decision its approach has evolved again  more on this later. 
For example, Santander has for some time been willing to send OTPs to consumers by 
email if theyre wanting to log onto their online banking or do online shopping.
Mr S has told us that hes not particularly interested in being able to do online shopping but 
being able to log onto his online banking from home is important to him. Im satisfied that 
hes now able to log onto his online banking from home because Santander is now willing to 
send him an OTP by email which allows him to log on  its an alternative thats viable for 
him. Thats good to see. However, Santander took over eighteen months to come up with 
this alternative for Mr S  it started offering him this option in January 2021. Thats 
disappointing given that many businesses were offering OTPs to email for logging on in 
2019. Thats also an option UK Finance recommended in the paper it published in October 
2020. Santander chairs the steering group UK Finance set up to look into ways businesses 
could authenticate their customers, and in particular vulnerable customers. That makes 
Santanders failure to come up with alternatives sooner even more disappointing. 
Nevertheless, Santander now being willing to send OTPs by email for customers who want 
to log into their online banking solves one of the problems Mr S was having. But thats not 
the only problem he was having. He wanted to be able to make payments using his online 
banking from his computer at home. There the news wasnt until very recently so good.
Santander has told us more than once that its not willing to send OTPs by email to 
customers who want to make a payment to a new payee using their online banking, or to a 
landline. Ill explain why, explain what it was offering and say whether I think what it was 
offering was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Santander has used OTPs to authenticate its customers for years  it was one of the first 
banks to introduce them  it was using them as early as 2014. Santander has also included 
within its terms and conditions that its customers will need a mobile phone if theyre going to 
make full use of online banking. I can understand why Santander introduced OTPs  
authenticating customers using an OTP is an important tool in the fight against fraud. I can 
also understand why Santander would be particularly careful when its deciding whether to 
accept an instruction to set up a new beneficiary or not as this is an area where fraudsters 
have been particularly active. But it doesnt follow, in my opinion, that Santander  even if it 
was ahead of the game in 2014  didnt need to review its processes when it knew it would have to implement strong customer authentication to check its approach was still up to date. 
The FCAs guidance has made it clear that businesses should offer customers alternative 
ways of authenticating whenever authentication is needed  as it is when a customer wants 
to make a payment from their online banking.
Santander told us than once that customers who dont have access to a mobile or its mobile 
banking app  for one reason or another  can still send payments to new payees using their 
online banking. In order to do so, customers have to call Santanders customer services 
department or a dedicated OTP helpline, and set up the new payee in question as a trusted 
beneficiary. Once thats been done, payments to that beneficiary can be made without the 
need to authenticate, assuming the payments arent, for example, flagged for security. 
Santander has said that calling its customer services department or its dedicated OTP 
helpline is an alternative way for its customers to authenticate. Santander has also said that 
it doesnt think asking customers like Mr S who dont have access to a mobile or its mobile 
banking app  for one reason or another  is unfair. I dont agree, and Ill explain why.
I accept that Mr S is able to call Santanders customer services department or its dedicated 
OTP helpline  he has a landline at home and is able to use it. Hed have to speak to an 
agent if he called either of these numbers as Santander doesnt offer an automated service. 
That means hed have to wait for his call to be picked up, and hed then have to go through 
telephone banking security, explain the reason for his call and then go through the process 
of setting up the new payee who he wanted to pay as a trusted beneficiary. This would be 
the process for each new payee and its a process that not only takes time, but a process 
that is far more likely to take longer than the time it would take if all he had to do was wait for 
an OTP to be sent to his landline or email address. In other words, it would be a more time-
consuming process  and thats something I have to have regard to. Santander has told us 
that on average its customers need to set up a new beneficiary approximately eight times a 
year. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr S sets up significantly more beneficiaries than that 
every year. So thats something I also have to have regard to. The process that Ive just 
described  Mr S calling Santanders customer service department or its dedicated OTP 
helpline to set up a new payee is a process that appears to sit within telephone banking 
rather than online banking as far as I can see. In addition, the dedicated OTP helpline isnt 
available 24/7  its only available from 8am to 8pm Mondays to Fridays and from 8am to 
6pm on Saturdays and Sundays. So, there will be occasions where Mr S cannot set up a 
new payee using the OTP helpline and would have to call Santanders customer services 
department instead which might be less optimal. Taking all of this into consideration, I have 
arrived at the conclusion that expecting someone like Mr S to call up and essentially go 
through a telephone banking process when they want the convenience of online banking is 
not fair or reasonable.
Santanders responses to me
Santander told me more than once that it was not willing or able to send an OTP to a 
landline or an email address so that one of its customers can authenticate when making a 
payment through their online banking to a new beneficiary. Santander also told me more 
than once that sending an OTP to a landline or an email address in such circumstances 
wasnt within its risk appetite. Thats despite UK Finance recommending sending OTPs to a 
landline or an email address as viable options  work Santander must have been heavily 
involved in given that it chairs the steering committee overseeing this work. I didnt think 
thats good enough. I told both Santander and Mr S that I didnt think this is fair and 
reasonable in the exchanges Ive had with them following my Provisional Decision. And I 
also asked them for comments on this. Ive taken the comments Ive received, which 
included a significant update from Santander  see below, along with all the other available 
evidence and arguments, into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.I told both parties when I asked them for their final comments on my Provisional Decision 
that in this particular case I accepted that I couldnt require Santander to offer Mr S an option 
that it says it cannot offer and I dont have evidence to support itd be practical or possible for 
it to do so; therefore, the only remedy I believed would adequately address this issue would 
be compensation. In its final comments on my Provisional Decision Santander has told me 
that it is now in the process of developing an OTP by email for customers who want to set up 
new payees, and that it will deploy this only as an exception for customers who cannot use a 
mobile phone. Santander has also told me that this is an option its willing to offer Mr S. In 
short, its now willing to offer Mr S what he asked for when he originally complained. Thats 
good news and a significant development, although its disappointing that its taken 
Santander over two and a half years to get to this point.
Putting things right
I told both parties when I asked them for their final comments on my Provisional Decision 
that I thought an award of £350 in compensation would be appropriate in this case to reflect 
the inconvenience and frustration caused to Mr S. Santander agreed to that amount in its 
response to me in which it also let me know its approach has evolved again. I consider 
£350 to be fair compensation. So, Im going to require Santander to pay Mr S £350 in 
compensation and to offer Mr S the OTP via email option its developing once that becomes 
available in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr S £350 in compensation and to 
offer Mr S the OTP via email option solution it is developing once that becomes available in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman