DRN-1811985
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to help him when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
On 24 May 2019, Mr T received a call from someone claiming to work for Barclays. Mr T 
says that the number that came up on his phone was a genuine Barclays number. The 
person told Mr T that his current account had been compromised and someone had tried to 
take £750 from it. The person told Mr T that, to secure the funds in the account, it was 
necessary to transfer money to a new account. Mr T was given an account number and sort 
code that was supposedly for his new account. Mr T tried to make a transfer for £2,000 but it 
wouldnt go through as hed inputted incorrect details. So he then transferred £2,028.25 to a 
friends account and asked the friend to forward the funds on to the new account.
On 28 May 2019 Mr T tried to check his new account but realised something was wrong 
when the new account wasnt showing. He rang Barclays and this is when he discovered 
that hed been scammed. Barclays contacted the scammers bank to see if any of Mr Ts 
money could be retrieved. But the scammers bank confirmed that no money remained from 
Mr Ts transactions.
Barclays told Mr T that, because hed authorised the transaction, it wasnt going to refund 
the money to him. However, Barclays did offer Mr T £100 in recognition of the time it had 
taken to deal with the case.
Our adjudicator thought that Lloyds had done as much as it could to help, so she didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to 
leave Mr Ts account. And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank. So, I cant fairly say that Barclays should reimburse Mr T with the 
£2,028.25 he lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Mr T 
made the payments, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer, so he sent the money 
in good faith. This means that  at the time  he wanted the payments to go ahead and 
authorised them to be made. And I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair 
and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years - which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.  
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr T when he transferred £2,028.25 or whether it should have done more than it did. 
But I dont think the payments were particularly suspicious or unusual enough to say 
Barclays ought to have had concerns that Mr T was being scammed. I dont think it was 
sufficiently suspicious to conclude Barclays ought to have identified that it may be potentially 
fraudulent, particularly as Mr T made the transfer to a friend who was already set up as an 
existing payee. The scammers had access to number cloning technology, which masks the 
real number that they are calling from. Thats why Mr T thought he was being called from a 
genuine Barclays number. But I cant hold Barclays responsible for that, and Barclays 
wouldnt have known at the time that a phone call was taking place.
When Mr T told Barclays hed been scammed, it contacted the scammers bank to see if any 
of Mr Ts money was still in the receiving account and could be retrieved. Mr T contacted 
Barclays at 8.54am on 28 May 2019. From the evidence Ive seen, Barclays didnt contact 
the beneficiary bank until 3.21pm on the same day, so over six hours later. However, this didnt make a difference as the beneficiary bank confirmed that the funds were removed 
from the scammers account on 24 May 2019. So even if Barclays had contacted the 
beneficiary bank immediately after speaking to Mr T on 28 May 2019, there would still have 
been no money left to refund to Mr T.
Any further investigations into what happened to the money after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of Barclays and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to that 
information. 
Its extremely unfortunate that Mr T has lost money. I understand that the whole experience 
will have been hugely upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I cant fairly say that 
Barclays should have done more to prevent his loss. I cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr 
T having fallen victim to a scam and I think that Barclays took appropriate steps to help him 
once it knew what had happened. So it would not be fair to ask Barclays to compensate Mr T 
for his loss.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint. However, Barclays should pay Mr T the 
£100 compensation it offered him now, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman