DRN-3353132
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc treated him unfairly by declining his Bounce 
Back Loan application. 
What happened
In November 2020, Mr M called Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) to ask about applying for a 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL). Mr M explained that hed applied for a BBL with another lender 
which had been approved but then recalled.
 
BOI said that under the Scheme rules, a borrower could only have one BBL, so Mr M would 
need to prove that he no longer had the other BBL before it could proceed. The bank also 
said that as part of its lending criteria, it required borrowers to have a business relationship 
with BOI. The bank said that based on the information Mr M had given at that time, it didnt 
think he should apply.
However, Mr M applied to BOI in early and late December 2020 and both applications were 
declined. Mr M was unhappy with the banks decision and believed hed been given incorrect 
information when speaking to BOI on the phone, so he made a complaint.
BOI upheld the complaint in part. The bank said that Mr M had been told he needed to have 
a business relationship with the BOI to apply  which wasnt accurate - so it apologised for 
the incorrect information. BOI explained it could also accept applications from personal 
account customers whod been using their accounts for business purposes - but it hadnt 
seen any evidence that was the case for Mr M.
 
The bank also said Mr M had been told he needed to get proof that the BBL with the other 
lender had been cancelled - and this had been followed up with an email. BOI said based on 
all the information available, it wasnt able to offer Mr M a BBL. Mr M was unhappy with the 
banks decision and asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought BOI had declined 
Mr Ms application in line with the Scheme rules. BOI had been told by the other lender that 
Mr M had been approved for and received the BBL - and therefore the bank wasnt able to 
provide another one.
 
Mr M didnt agree as he believed the original loan had been withdrawn by the lender. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Both Mr M and BOI have given evidence to support their position, and the bank has given 
several reasons why it decided to decline Mr Ms application for a BBL. However, whilst Ive 
reviewed all the information, the focus of the decision is whether Mr M was eligible to apply 
for a BBL with BOI. And Im not persuaded he was. 
Mr M says BOI decision to decline his BBL application was unfair as he believes his original 
BBL was withdrawn by the other lender so he should be able to apply again. But I dont 
agree. In Mr Ms case, BOI was told by the other lender that the loan was approved, drawn 
down and funds were credited to Mr Ms account  but then withdrawn.
I recognise this must be frustrating for Mr M, but BOI isnt responsible for the actions of the 
other lender. Ive seen that BOI approached the other lender to confirm if the original loan 
shouldnt have been granted or had been given in error so Mr M could reapply. But as BOI 
werent given confirmation an error had taken place it wasnt able to consider Mr Ms 
application. The bank doesnt have the option to decide not to abide by the Scheme rules, so 
I think BOIs decision was reasonable. 
I acknowledge Mr M says he was given incorrect information by BOI that he could apply for a 
BBL again. However, its not our role to fine or punish a business for making a mistake, and I 
can see that several follow-up emails were sent to Mr M before he applied to BOI explaining 
the banks position. So I think Mr M ought reasonably to have been aware before he applied 
to BOI that there was a good chance his application would be declined if he continued 
without the required information.
I recognise that Mr M feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think BOI has acted reasonably and in line with the 
Scheme rules. So, I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman