DRN-2666499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Momentum Broker Solutions Limited mis-sold them a building 
warranty. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs F purchased a building warranty through an insurance broker  
Momentum. 
In 2018 the company who provide the warranty collapsed which meant the warranty was no 
longer enforceable. Mr and Mrs F claimed a refund of the policy premiums back through the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). However they only received £1,125 and 
they had originally paid £6,458.66 when they took out the warranty. 
They asked Momentum why they hadnt received the full amount back. Momentum 
explained that it was correct that the policy premiums were £1,125, and the rest of the cost 
were made up of other elements and fees.
Mr and Mrs F made a complaint to Momentum. They said the breakdown of the cost of the 
policy hadnt been clear when Momentum sold it. And if they had known that the policy fees 
exceeded the cost of the premium, they wouldnt have agreed to buy it and would have 
sought cover elsewhere. 
Momentum didnt uphold their complaint. It said it provided a breakdown of the cost that 
showed that the premium was only a part of what they were paying. It said it was the 
warranty provider who set the cost, so it wasnt responsible for how much of it was made up 
of fees. But it didnt agree the information it provided was misleading. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt think this was fair as they said the breakdown wasnt clear. And they 
only received a complete breakdown after the services included in the warranty had begun, 
which meant it was too late to choose a different policy. They brought their complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend their complaint be upheld. She said she was satisfied 
Momentum had provided a breakdown of what was included when Mr and Mrs F bought the 
warranty and if they had any questions about what each element was, they could have 
raised this at the time. So she didnt think Momentum had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs F disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints, I need to decide if the business involved has done something 
wrong. And where it has, I need to decide what would have been different if it hadnt. In this 
case Mr and Mrs F say that Momentum didnt provide a clear breakdown of the cost of the 
warranty it sold them. They say if it had, they wouldnt have bought the policy and would 
have found a warranty elsewhere.
Its important to note that I am only considering the actions of the broker, Momentum, as part 
of this complaint. Its the insurance provider that sets the price of the policy and the related 
fees  so I wont comment on whether this is fair. Only whether Momentum provided enough 
information for Mr and Mrs F to make a decision on whether the purchase the warranty, and 
the impact this had on their decision. 
When Mr and Mrs F first enquired about purchasing a warranty through Momentum, it 
confirmed the cost as £6,458.66 (inclusive of VAT and taxes). At this stage no further detail 
was given about the breakdown. Based on the cost Mr and Mrs F agreed to go ahead with 
the purchase. 
I agree at this stage, very little information was provided about what that cost included. 
However Mr and Mrs F raised no questions or objections about the cost. So I think its likely 
they had no problems with the total amount. 
Over the months that followed, Momentum provided invoices for the warranty as payments 
were due. And these gave more detail about the breakdown of the price. In December 2016 
it provided an invoice with the following breakdown:
Property damage £1,125.00
Policy fee £2,980.53
Admin fee £250.00
Insurance premium tax £112.50
VAT £125.83
The amount referred to as property damage is the policy premium. And the policy fee 
refers to fees in addition to the premium. I agree this isnt entirely clear from just the 
information above, as the descriptions of the amounts are a little ambiguous. So I agree Mr 
and Mrs F may not have realised which of these related to the premiums and which were 
additional fees.  
However, I also have to consider the impact this unclear information has had on Mr and 
Mrs Fs actions, in order to decide if they would have acted differently if the information had 
been more clear.
When Mr and Mrs F took out the policy  Momentum confirmed the price to them. At this 
stage Ive seen nothing to suggest that they questioned this price, or obtained quotes from 
elsewhere. So I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs F were satisfied with the total cost of 
the warranty. Mr and Mrs F say they didnt obtain quotes from anywhere else as they 
assumed the quote was the going rate, as Momentum said it would beat other quotes. 
However if they had concerns about the price, I would still expect them to check prices 
elsewhere. So this suggests they were happy to pay the amount for the warranty. 
Further, when the breakdown detailed above was sent to them in December 2016, this made 
it clear that the warranty cost was made up of a number of different elements, and not just 
the premium. I agree it may not have been clear exactly what the amounts were for  
however I do think its clear that the amount they paid wasnt just made up of premiums and 
there was an element of fees. I appreciate Mr and Mrs F were, at this stage, already 
committed to the warranty. So I understand why they might not have felt able to pull out of it. 
However if the proportion of the cost that was attributed to the premiums was important to Mr 
and Mrs F, then I would have expected them to ask Momentum about the breakdown at this stage. But no questions were raised.
From this I think I can reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs F were happy with the price of 
the warranty and didnt have any concerns about the breakdown of the cost at the time. And 
that this only became of concern when they requested a refund due to the insurance 
provider collapsing. When I consider this together, I therefore think its most likely that even if 
the amount of the policy premiums had been more clear at the time, it wouldnt have 
impacted Mr and Mrs Fs decision to buy the policy from Momentum. 
For this reason I dont think Momentum need to do anything differently. While I can see the 
wording around the breakdown of the cost was a little unclear, I think its most likely this 
wouldnt have impacted Mr and Mrs Fs decision to buy the policy. So I dont think they 
would be in a different position if this had been made more clear. For this reason I wont 
require Momentum to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman