DRN-3357757
The complaint
Mrs C, represented by a claims management company (CMC), has complained that Ikano 
Bank AB (publ) rejected her claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. 
What happened
Mrs C bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer allegedly misleading Mrs C 
into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
In June 2021, Ikano offered to settle the complaint as if a misrepresentation had been made, 
and it asked Mrs Cs CMC for information to enable it to calculate the settlement. The CMC 
asked us to look at the complaint but didnt provide the further information until October 
2021, after we asked for it. 
In January 2022, Ikano provided its settlement offer, which was passed to the CMC. The 
CMC pointed out that the offer didnt include the additional costs Mrs C incurred by paying 
off the Ikano loan using a loan from another lender. The CMC felt these costs should be 
included in the settlement.
Mrs Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They said the additional costs 
incurred through the second loan should be included in the settlement. Ikano didnt respond 
within a reasonable time, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach to redress in 
these cases. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I uphold this case. Im satisfied that the 
costs of the second loan (used to pay off the Ikano loan) were a result of Mrs C agreeing to 
buy the solar panels. 
So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mrs C fairly and she lost out because of what Ikano did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs C from the solar panels 
over the original loan term, so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs C is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Ikano needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs C by way of explanation. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Mrs C has settled the loan by refinancing, so she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs C paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs C receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs C paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs C receives her refund.
5. Pay Mrs C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding over the original term of the Ikano 
loan.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs C first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman