DRN-4142184
The complaint
Mr W and Miss W have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC have applied interest 
incorrectly to their new mortgage. They believe they have been charged too much. 
Mr W and Miss W are being represented on this complaint, but I will refer to Mr W and Miss 
W throughout for ease. 
What happened
Mr W and Miss W took out a mortgage with Barclays in September 2022. Funds were 
released to their solicitor for the house purchase on 16 September 2022. They received a 
letter from Barclays explaining what their new monthly payments would be and the letter also 
explained that £315.43 worth of interest was being charged for the period between 16 to 30 
September 2022. 
Mr W and Miss W said they had to then pay their full monthly payment on 16 October 2022, 
a month after the funds were released and then another full payment in November 2022. 
They think they have been charged too much interest. 
Mr W and Miss W said they tried to contact Barclays a number of times to get an explanation 
but didnt get anywhere. They said the house purchase was very stressful and financially 
challenging and they didnt expect to have to pay this amount so early and they dont 
understand how the interest payments have been calculated. They are also unhappy that 
payments are being taken on the 1st of each month. 
Barclays issued a final response letter on the matter and explained that the interest had 
been calculated correctly. Barclays also acknowledged that Mr W and Miss W spent a lot of 
time on the telephone trying to get through to Barclays, so they paid £175 to them as 
compensation for this. 
Mr W and Miss W didnt agree with what Barclays has said so they brought their complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our Investigators. After 
clarifying the information with Barclays a number of times, she was satisfied that the interest 
had been applied correctly and didnt think that Mr W and Miss W had been charged more 
than they should have been  so she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr W and Miss W still disagreed. They said:
They would like it explained why exactly one month after the loan was received (16 
September), on the 16 October 2022 they had to pay one months full mortgage plus interest 
for September  then two weeks later on the 1 November they had to pay another monthly 
payment. 
They said Septembers interest was charged at £315.43 and was paid on 16 October 2022. 
Then there is interest added for October of £650.99 for 31 days but this is paid on 16 
October when a full monthly payment has been made. Then Novembers interest of £627.21 
for 30 days has been paid on 1 November when they make another full monthly payment. 
Mr W and Miss W said that if you work this out in reverse, the payment on the 1 December is 
for Novembers interest, the November payment covers Octobers interest, so they are not 
sure what the payment on 16th October covers. 
The extra amount they paid of £315.43 is paid on 16 October which covers the September 
interest, but October interest was paid on 1 November, so they dont know what period the 
interest from the 16 October covers. 
As Mr W and Miss W didnt agree with the Investigator, they asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, I agree with our Investigator that the interest has been applied 
correctly. I hope that my explanation below will provide clarity for Mr W and Miss W. 
Ive taken a look at the terms and conditions of the mortgage which says:
How do we calculate interest
We can calculate interest on what you owe us on a yearly, monthly or daily basis. We refer 
to this as the interest period. The interest period which applies to your loan is set out in your 
offer letter. If it isnt, we will calculate your interest on a daily basis. 
The mortgage offer under section 6  amount of each instalment says:
Your first payment will include interest due from the date of completion to the end of that 
month which will be added to your normal monthly payment in the following month. 
The interest charged between 16 and 30 September 2022 (£315.43) is daily interest which 
has been charged from the date the funds were released. A full monthly mortgage payment 
wasnt required in this month, however, because the funds were released, interest gets 
charged daily until the end of that month. This payment is then added to the contractual 
monthly payment of £1,197.15 so the payment due on 16 October 2022 was £1,512.58.
I have looked at the screen shots that have been provided by Barclays which shows that 
interest was added on 1 November 2022 for £650.99 which is for the month of October. 
Interest is then added on 1 December 2022 for £627.21 which is for November 2022. 
The differing amount of interest is due to the fact that some months have more days than 
others, and interest is calculated daily. But the point that Mr W and Miss W make, is that 
they dont understand what the October payment covers, and they think they have been 
charged too much interest. 
Barclays have provided us with details of how first payments are calculated, and they said 
that for all new mortgages, regardless of the date the loan completes, the first direct debit 
will always be taken on the 16th of the following month  which in this case  has resulted in 
the first payment being taken on 16 October 2022. 
I think the confusion here is possibly that because the first month is taken on the 16 of 
October, it may seem to Mr W and Miss W that interest is worked out during that period 
every month  but that isnt the case. 
The additional interest for September of £315.43 is just for the period from 16 to 30 
September which was always going to be taken with the first monthly payment of £1,197.15.
Regardless of when the direct debit goes through, interest is always added at the start of 
each month for the month before. So the payment that was taken on 16 October only 
covered the full contractual monthly payment for October and the additional interest for 
September. 
From what Barclays have said in their final response letter and from the transaction screen 
shots that we have, interest is added in arrears, but the contractual monthly payment is 
added in advance.The November payment, albeit being two weeks later, covers Novembers full monthly 
payment from the first of the month which includes the interest for the entire month of 
October  as this hasnt been charged yet. The monthly payment in December, covers the 
monthly payment required for December along with interest in November  for the full month 
 and so on.
This is how mortgage interest is usually applied and its not been calculated incorrectly. With 
the exception of that first month, interest is added at the start of each month for the month 
before  as has happened in this case. 
I note that Mr W and Miss W didnt want their monthly payments to be taken on the 1st of 
each month and this is something that they can get amended with Barclays if they still wish 
to do so.
I hope that Ive managed to explain this in a way that helps Mr W and Miss W understand 
how the interest has been applied. I havent seen anything which shows me that they have 
been charged more interest than they needed to be. 
As they are on a fixed rate, their contractual monthly payments will remain the same until the 
fixed rate expires, with interest being applied monthly as explained above. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman