DRN-2310458
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy alongside a joint mortgage in 1991. Although they 
arranged further advances on their mortgage account later on they didnt take out any further 
PPI. So Im looking at Mr and Mrs Js circumstances and what happened when Halifax sold 
them PPI at the start of their mortgage. 
The policy protected their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr J couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs J complain that they werent advised that PPI was optional but told that they 
needed to take out the policy to ensure a successful mortgage application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Im sorry Mr and Mrs J feel our adjudicator didnt take fully into account everything theyve 
said or give due weight to what theyve told us they remember about the sale. 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs J that Ive looked at the complaint afresh and listened to what 
theyve said to our adjudicator. And Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our 
adjudicator and decided not to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
I've thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs J remember about the circumstances of this 
sale and why they say they felt they had to take out PPI. And Ive no reason to doubt that 
theyre sure about what theyve told us. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs J 
to remember exactly what was discussed so long ago when they took out the policy. This 
means that without other information that supports what they say and shows that theyve 
remembered everything correctly, what they say about the way they were sold PPI isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely given the available information and the wider 
circumstances. Where necessary I need to make reasonable assumptions if theres only 
limited information and disagreement about what happened. And I must be impartial. 
In order to uphold their complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs J werent 
given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their complaint without their consent. 
Based on the information I've seen and been told, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt 
presented as optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Js mortgage without their consent. 
Heres why I say this.
On their mortgage application form, Mr and Mrs J were offered the option to say if they 
wished to apply for PPI. In the section headed MORTGAGE PAYMENTS PROTECTOR 
(which is what Halifax called its PPI at the time) theres a brief description of the cover the 
scheme offered. And it says on the form: If you wish to join the Scheme enter the amount of 
monthly benefit you require. 
I don't know how the sales advisor they spoke to explained PPI to Mr and Mrs J. But they 
wouldve been able to see that it was up to them to say if they wished to have it. I dont think 
that the wording on the form wouldve suggested to them that PPI was a compulsory part of 
the mortgage application process. 
So, at the time, I think that Mr and Mrs J wouldve understood that PPI wasnt something 
they had to have with the mortgage - it was an option they could choose if they wanted.
If Mr and Mrs J hadnt wanted PPI then they couldve left blank the amount of monthly 
benefit required. On the form signed by Mr and Mrs J theres a figure of £200 entered into 
the box here. 
And Mr J also filled in his details and signed a separate PPI application form in order to take 
out cover. 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Js home couldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up 
to date. PPI provided dependable cover. And taking into account everything theyve told us 
about their circumstances, it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs J couldve found PPI useful if 
theyd needed to claim. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs J mightve wanted the security and 
peace of mind that PPI offered at the time.
I can completely understand if theyve forgotten these details as this happened such a long 
time ago. But, based on the information Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs J decided 
they wanted the benefits that PPI offered when they took out their mortgage. 
And, on balance, I find that it was added to their mortgage account when they chose to buy 
the policy to cover Mr J  when they could see that it was up to them to say if they wanted to 
take it out.
So I cant uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint that they were mis-sold PPI on the basis that 
optionality wasnt made clear. But, like our adjudicator, Ive also thought about whether there 
might be any other reason to uphold their complaint.  
Halifax says it wouldve advised Mr and Mrs J to have PPI. If a business makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear 
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
It looks to me like the PPI recommendation was suitable based on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time. Halifax can only provide a policy document which was in use after Mr and Mrs J signed up 
for PPI. But I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr J took out wouldve 
had similar terms and conditions.
Ive taken into account that Mr J told us he wouldve been able to rely on his employer 
paying him sick pay for at least 6 months. But it looks like the policy couldve paid out for up 
to 12 months per accident and sickness claim. So the PPI provided better protection than he 
couldve relied on getting through his employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay 
providing Mr and Mrs J with a useful benefit at what mightve been a difficult time  
especially bearing in mind that they mightve had some extra costs as a result of Mr J being 
sick or disabled.
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr J lost his job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed.
Redundancy money wouldnt have helped if Mr J was off sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his job, giving Mr and Mrs J 
some additional financial security in those circumstances.
The monthly benefit paid out on this policy wouldve covered Mr and Mrs Js mortgage 
repayments and also paid some extra to help them with their other insurance costs. And 
Mr J couldve made multiple claims on the policy if hed needed to. 
The policy offered Mr and Mrs J wider protection than if theyd just been relying on Mr Js 
employer. It gave Mr and Mrs J long term protection for their mortgage plus some extra 
financial help. It meant they could depend on being able to make their mortgage monthly 
repayments even if Mr J wasnt able to work. I think its likely that Mr and Mrs J might have 
found it hard to afford to keep up the monthly mortgage repayments without Mr Js income 
coming into the household as he appears to have been the main earner. I think that couldve 
been an important consideration for them at the time. 
Overall, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs J.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like there were any 
significant or long term reasons why Mr J wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all 
the policy benefits he expected (as he later did when he successfully claimed on the policy). 
So I dont think having more or clearer information about the policy terms wouldve stopped 
him taking out the PPI.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs J knew how much PPI would cost them when they took it out. But 
they also arranged to buy some extra benefit over and above what they needed just for their 
mortgage monthly repayments. So it looks like they chose to buy cover that reflected their 
wishes at the time and they were happy to pay for the amount of benefit they wanted. It 
doesnt seem that keeping costs down was a priority for Mr and Mrs J. And I've seen nothing 
to make me think the policy wasnt affordable for them when they took it out  so thats not a 
reason for me to uphold their complaint.  
Looked at overall, its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
this makes no overall difference to the outcome. Thats because I think Mr and Mrs J still 
wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr J even if theyd been better informed as it gave 
them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think better information wouldve 
put them off buying PPI given the benefits it offered them. Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs to give back to Mr and Mrs J some of the 
commission they paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Js 
mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs J paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
But Halifax has already offered to give back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J. 
And I understand Halifax has now paid this to Mr and Mrs J. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything more. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs J have said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. Ive taken into account 
what Mr J said about the insurance sales culture in 1991 and the way a different PPI case 
was dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt 
change my conclusion here.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J feel strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said 
will come as a disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an 
impact on the outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done 
will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman