DRN-4434678
The complaint
Mr V complains that his Monese account was blocked, and then closed. He says he lost out 
on an offer because of this. Monese is an agent of Prepay Technologies Limited, but I shall 
refer to Monese throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr V opened an electronic money account with Monese in 2019, but there was no activity on 
the account. In May 2021 Monese restricted the account because of the inactivity. 
In June 2022 Mr V contacted Monese to ask about the account. Monese responded to say 
the account had been inactive, so it was blocked for security. They said reopening it may 
take a while, as they would need to carry out additional checks. A month later they asked Mr 
V for further information, such as proof of identity and address, to be able to reactivate the 
account. Mr V supplied information, but ultimately Monese declined to reactivate it and 
closed the account. 
Unhappy with this decision and delays in getting responses from Monese, Mr V raised a 
complaint. Monese responded to say they had closed his account in line with their terms and 
conditions. They said the checks they need to go through are thorough and can take some 
time. But they accepted their customer service could have been better, and questions asked 
by Mr V could have been answered more swiftly, and they apologised for this. Mr V referred 
his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. They said Monese had the right to 
review accounts but couldnt conclude that the decision to close his account was fair. They 
also thought there was inconvenience caused by not responding to Mr Vs queries. They 
couldnt conclude that Mr V would have benefited from the cashback offer, but they 
suggested Monese pay Mr V £100 compensation. 
This was accepted by Mr V, but Monese rejected this outcome. As no agreement could be 
reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. After review I issued my provisional 
decision which said: 
The investigator is right to say that Monese, like all financial regulated firms in the UK, have 
legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts to customers. These 
obligations include making sure they have up-to-date details to help identify and better serve 
their consumers. They also have a responsibility to keep accounts secure. 
In this case Monese has said because of the lack of activity on Mr Vs account it was 
restricted in May 2021. From the statements I can see the account was never used, and 
never held a balance. Theres a single fee charged from when the account was opened, but 
thats it. So, its reasonable for them to deactivate the account. 
When Mr V got back in touch to discuss the account it had been inactive for over a year. In 
the circumstances its reasonable for Monese to ask for further information from Mr V. The 
last update to the details on the account was when it opened in 2019, so updated 
information is a reasonable thing to ask for. 
I can see after Mr V submitted his information Monese reviewed it in good time. They 
requested further information from him, which once submitted was reviewed in a reasonable 
time. Ultimately, they decided they didnt wish to continue providing an account to Mr V. 
Monese arent under any specific obligation to explain their reasons for closing an account, 
and in this case, theyve declined to do so. Ive considered the reasoning provided to our 
service, and on balance Im persuaded that the decision to close Mr Vs account was a 
legitimate commercial decision they were entitled to make. I dont see that this was an 
unreasonable decision on their part. 
I appreciate Mr V will find this disappointing. But electronic money institutions, such as 
Monese, arent required to provide electronic money services to everyone. They can 
ultimately choose who they want as their customers, just as their customers can choose to 
use a different service. 
Ive considered whether Monese should have provided two months notice. But ultimately as 
the account had never been used or held a balance, I dont see that Mr V would have been 
in any different position. So, Im satisfied the immediate closure was reasonable.
Having reviewed the correspondence between Monese and Mr V though, I agree there are 
times where the service he received fell short of what Id expect. The responses to his 
questions are not prompt, and it takes several weeks before they begin to ask him for 
information to allow them to carry out their checks  although they did acknowledge early on 
it may take a while. But I can see why hed be frustrated by the process. But in their 
response to his complaint Monese apologised for this. Taking everything into account, I think 
thats an appropriate response.
I wasnt minded to ask Monese to do anything further. Monese responded to say that they 
had nothing further to add. Mr V responded to say he rejected my finding, and that the 
inconvenience he suffered hasnt been taken into consideration. He also said the provisional 
decision hadnt mentioned Monese not responding to him when hed asked if theyd 
recorded a marker with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied with the reasoning and conclusions reached in the 
provisional decision. As there was a lack of activity on the account, Im satisfied that Monese 
were reasonable to restrict it. And when Mr V wanted to make use of the account again, it 
wasnt unreasonable to ask for updated details.
The review of the new identification was dealt with promptly once it began, and Monese 
came to the decision they didnt wish to provide an account to Mr V. Im persuaded that this 
decision wasnt unreasonable, and something Monese were entitled to make. So, I wouldnt 
take in to account any inconvenience that flows from this reasonable course of action.
Ive noted what Mr V has said in response to my provisional decision. Ive agreed the 
responses to his queries to Monese werent timely. There is inconvenience there but 
considering the impact on Mr M I see the apology provided as the appropriate response.
The issue of Mr M asking Monese whether a CIFAS marker had been recorded came up after the complaint was referred to us. As the investigator has explained, this issue would 
need to be referred to Monese in the first instance before our service can comment on it.
My final decision
My final decision is that Prepay Technologies Limited do not need to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman