DRN-3596849
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund them for 
cash machine withdrawals.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B contacted NatWest as they didnt recognise some cash machine withdrawals 
on their joint account. Mr and Mrs B said there were five transactions they didnt make, 
totalling £1,050.
NatWest investigated the disputed transactions and wouldnt refund them. NatWest said the 
transactions had been carried out using the genuine card and personal identification number 
(PIN) and it couldnt see how anyone else had access to these details.
Unhappy with this answer Mr and Mrs B complained. Mr and Mrs B also said they were 
unhappy with the level of support theyd received during their fraud claim.
NatWest responded to say it had reviewed the fraud claim, but it wouldnt be refunding the 
money. NatWest apologised for the level of service it had provided.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. 
The investigator thought Mr and Mrs Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld.
The investigator said all the disputed withdrawals were made using Mr Bs card. And the 
investigator couldnt see how someone else had been able to access Mr Bs card, know the 
PIN, make the transactions and then return the card to Mr B without him knowing.
The investigator also couldnt explain why whoever had the card didnt access as much 
money as they could. Only one of the withdrawals was for the daily maximum of £300, but 
Mr and Mrs B had significantly more in their account.
The investigator didnt think NatWest provided poor service. The investigator thought the 
time it took to investigate the initial fraud claim, and then issue the final response, was 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators outcome. Mr and Mrs B said they could 
prove Mr B was working at the time of some of the transactions. 
Mr and Mrs B said the likeliest explanation was their card had been cloned. And someone 
had been arrested outside a local cash machine, and NatWest had been told about this.
Mr and Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since all the disputed transactions took place on Mr Bs card, for ease Ill talk about Mr B 
only. But I realise these payments left a joint account for Mr and Mrs B.
As a general rule its reasonable for NatWest to hold Mr B liable for transactions where the 
evidence suggests he authorised them.
NatWest has provided evidence to show all the disputed transactions were carried out using 
Mr Bs genuine card and PIN. And the evidence also says the chip on the card was read.
Mr B has said his card could have been cloned. Whilst it may be possible to copy the 
magnetic strip on a card, its not generally thought possible to copy the chip on the card. Our 
service hasnt come across any complaints where we felt this was a likely explanation.
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to suggest Mr Bs card was cloned. Im satisfied the 
withdrawals were made using Mr Bs genuine card and PIN.
The withdrawals are spaced out over a four-month period, and theres undisputed payments 
on Mr Bs card in between the disputed ones. This means someone must have been able to 
access Mr Bs card, use it, and then return it to him.
And since Im satisfied the correct PIN was used, someone would have needed to know 
Mr Bs PIN as well. Mr B hadnt lost his card and hes told NatWest and this service hes 
never shared his PIN with anyone else.
The last transaction was for £200. Whoever took this money also carried out a balance 
enquiry. Mr Bs account had far in excess of £200 in it at the time, as it did for all the 
disputed withdrawals. But whoever had the card didnt take the maximum daily withdrawal 
limit of £300 or make any purchases in shops.
I cant see why an unknown third party, with access to Mr Bs card and PIN and a significant 
available balance, would choose to take less than the maximum amount they could.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr B authorised these transactions, or allowed someone else to on his 
behalf. In either event, I think NatWest is fair in holding Mr B liable for the transactions.
Mr Bs said NatWest should have contacted him about the payments, but I dont think they 
look unusual. The payments are spread out, theyve been authorised using Mr Bs PIN and 
Mr B has withdrawn similar amounts before.
I dont think NatWest would have thought these withdrawals were suspicious. And because 
of this I dont think NatWest needed to contact Mr B about any of the withdrawals.
Mr B has said some of the transactions took place when he was at work and could prove this 
with work schedules. The investigator asked for this information, but Mr B didnt send 
anything in.
I dont believe this information would change my decision. Im satisfied Mr B authorised the 
payments or allowed someone else to on his behalf. Even if I had work schedules, my 
thinking would be unchanged.
Mr Bs mentioned someone was arrested outside one of the cash machines used. Mr B also said the cash machine owner had been in touch with NatWest. NatWest says it hasnt been 
contacted about any arrests. 
I dont feel this information changes my mind either. I dont know why the person was 
arrested, but thefts of money or cards at cash machines is a relatively common occurrence.
But this type of theft wouldnt explain how someone was able to get hold of Mr Bs card on 
several occasions and return it to him. I dont think the arrest of someone outside one of the 
cash machines explains the repeated use of Mr Bs card.
And Mr B was unhappy with the service NatWest provided when it investigated the disputed 
transactions. Whilst I can appreciate this was a distressing time for Mr B, I dont think 
NatWest unduly delayed things.
And I dont think NatWest needed to keep in regular contact with Mr B. It took 22 days for 
NatWest to investigate the claim and respond to Mr Bs complaint about the lack of refund. In 
the circumstances, I dont think this was too long, even without an update.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman