DRN-2916847
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the manner in which esure Insurance Limited dealt with a 
claim against his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2021 esure contacted Mr D to say it had received a claim from a third party 
insurer alleging his car had caused damage to another car in 2017. Mr D said he hadn't 
been involved in an accident or indeed been in the city where it apparently took place. 
esure then wrote to Mr D asking him to discuss the matter further with it. Mr D was unhappy 
with the tone of that letter and complained. esure agreed that the tone of the letter wasn't 
appropriate to Mr Ds circumstances and paid him £50 compensation. Mr D wasn't happy 
with that or with esures progress. And it wasn't until May 2021 that the third party insurer 
confirmed that it wasn't Mr Ds car which was involved in the accident.
Mr D brought his complaint about esure to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He 
didn't think esure needed to take any further action to put things right. Mr D didn't agree so 
his complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I can understand how confusing, stressful and frustrating Mr D might have found it to learn 
that hed essentially been accused of causing an accident, or at least of his car being 
involved in an accident, that he had absolutely no involvement with. But I dont think that was 
esures fault. A third party insurer had told esure that a car it insured, Mr Ds car, had caused 
an accident. And, as the insurer of that car, esure was required by law (the Road Traffic Act 
1988) to respond to that allegation.
It might help if I explain that there's a centrally held database that records which insurers 
insure particular cars. And the database locates insurers by the registration number of the 
cars on their policies and not by the name of the policyholder. So, when theres been a 
driving incident and an interested party wants to claim from the insurer of the car involved, 
they can find the insurers details from the central database using the cars registration 
number.
But occasionally the party wishing to make a claim will make a mistake, perhaps because 
they've recorded the registration number incorrectly. And when that happens the database 
will provide details of the insurer of the car with the incorrect registration number. And that 
can lead to a claim being made against a policyholder who has no involvement or knowledge 
whatsoever of the incident being claimed for.
Thats what happened in this case. That is the party making the claim or their insurer noted 
the registration number of the car involved in the incident as being Mr Ds car registration by 
mistake. And when the third party insurer looked for the insurer of the car with that 
registration from the database its provided esures details as insuring Mrs Ds car. The third 
party insurer has then sent their allegations to esure.
So, when esure received that claim its recorded it on its system as a claim against Mr Ds 
policy. That process has automatically updated a shared insurance database that a claim 
had been made. Thats standard procedure across the motor insurance industry. And until 
the incident had been investigated and closed down the claim would show as open, which 
meant it hadn't yet been determined, on the shared database. And its usual for insurers to 
treat open claims as if they are fault claims until theyre closed. So as esure had received a 
claim against a car it insured, I think it was reasonable for it to record it as a claim against 
Mr Ds policy until it had fully investigated the matter.
esure noted the third party insurers allegation didn't name Mr D as the driver of the car. And 
it spoke with Mr D to confirm his car hadn't been involved in the accident and responded to 
the third party insurer accordingly. But it couldn't just close matters down at that point. Thats 
because it's standard practice for insurers to wait until theyve received confirmation from the 
claiming party, in this case the third party insurer, that theyre no longer going to pursue the 
claim before closing it down. Thats because otherwise the claimant could simply continue to 
pursue it and take the matter to court, and the claim would still show as open on the shared 
database, regardless of the fact the policyholder has consistently denied any involvement in 
it. So, while I do understand how frustrating Mr D found the situation, I don't think esure did 
anything wrong in not closing the file when Mr D said his car hadn't been involved in an 
accident.
I've noted that it took esure around three months from receiving the third party insurers 
allegations to confirming that the matter had been closed. Mr D thinks that was too long. But 
I've seen that esure continued to regularly follow up on the matter with the third party insurer 
throughout that period. esure was consistent with the third party insurer that neither Mr D nor 
his car had been involved in the accident and that it would defend any claim. But the third 
party insurer told esure it was waiting for a police report. And it wasn't until May 2021 that 
the third party insurer confirmed that the actual car involved in the accident wasn't Mr Ds, 
although it had a very similar registration number. 
It was only at that point, when the third party insurer confirmed it would no longer be 
pursuing a claim against Mr Ds policy, that esure could safely close down the claim at its 
end. It did so noting that the claim had been opened in error and wouldnt show against 
Mr Ds insurance history. I can understand how frustrating this drawn out process must have 
been for Mr D. But esure isn't responsible for the actions of the third party insurer. And 
I think esure took reasonable steps, including regularly chasing the third party insurer for its 
updated position on the claim, to progress matters as quickly as it could. So I don't think it 
was esures fault that Mr D was put to some trouble because of the mistaken claim from the 
third party insurer.
That said esure agreed, at an early stage, it had sent a generic letter to Mr D asking him to 
contact it. It accepted that the tone of that letter wasnt appropriate to Mr Ds situation. It 
apologised and paid Mr D £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. I think that 
was a reasonable response in the circumstances. So I don't intend to instruct esure to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman