DRN-4313092
The complaint
Mr W, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Tandem 
Personal Loans Ltd (Tandem) rejected his claims under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 
1974 in respect of a holiday product. I gather the purchase was made by Mr and Mrs W, but 
as the finance agreement was in Mr Ws name he is the eligible complainant. In this decision 
for simplicity I will refer to Mr W as the sole purchaser.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr W was making use of his timeshare when he was invited to a meeting. He 
says that he was pressurised to purchase a new holiday product from a company I will call 
A. This cost £21,500 and was funded by a loan from Tandem. 
In June 2021 PR submitted a letter of claim to Tandem. It said that the product was mis-sold 
and A had gone into liquidation. PR said Mr W was told he was buying an investment, but a 
year later A tried to sell him another product on the basis it would be easier to sell. Later Mr 
W paid to have the product placed in As resale scheme, but it had not sold. It also claimed 
Mr W had not been given a choice of lender.  PR said that A had contravened a number of 
regulations as set out in The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT) 
2008. Finally it said Mr W had not been told of any commission paid by Tandem. PR claimed 
a refund of all costs under s.75 CCA and s.130A CCA.
Tandem rejected the claim. It said due process was followed and Mr W had been offered a 
choice of lenders. It said a credit check had been carried out and no commission had been 
paid.
PR brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mr W repeating the points raised in the 
letter of claim. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld.  She said there was insufficient evidence of either misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Nor did she believe there was an unfair relationship and she was not persuaded 
the loan was unaffordable.
PR didnt agree and said Mr W was dismayed that the product didnt allow him access to the 
level of luxury he had been promised. As he was only allowed to redeem 400 points a year it 
would take him 31 years to use them all. The resale programme had now ceased despite the 
product being sold as an investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why. 
S. 56 and S. 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
The nature of the loan means that it would have been a regulated credit agreement covered 
by the Consumer Credit Act. I have assumed that A acted as credit broker as well as being 
the seller of the timeshare.
Under s. 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection with a 
consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender. In this case, that means that 
anything A said about the timeshare or the loan is to be treated in the same way as if it had 
been said by Tandem.
In addition, one effect of s. 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that 
claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
I am satisfied that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. I must therefore 
consider what the position might be if Mr W were to bring a claim or claims against A, either 
for misrepresentation of for breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
PR has said that Mr W was told that his purchase was an investment. It also supplied written 
testimony from Mr W as to what he recalled being told. While I was not present so I cannot 
say what was said I do not consider that I am able to conclude the product was 
misrepresented. I have seen no explanation of how that could be the case or why Mr W 
believed that the purchase of points would be an investment. If he had been told that  or 
had otherwise believed that to be the case  I would have expected him to ask for more 
information.Although I am aware of the types of agreement used by A I cannot be certain what Mr W 
signed and as I wasnt present at the time of the sale I cannot be certain what was said by 
As representative. PR has suggested that it is likely A sold the product as an investment, 
but I dont believe that is sufficiently persuasive to allow me to require Tandem to refund the 
costs to Mr W.
In short I do not believe I can say that there was misrepresentation such that I can uphold 
this complaint.
Breach of Contract
I do not believe that the liquidation of A in 2020 led to a breach of contract. I gather new 
management companies were appointed, and Mr W was able to use the timeshare as usual 
after that date.
In July 2020 the trustee wrote to all the club members. Its letter said: The JLs are pleased to 
confirm that FNTC has taken over as the new manager of the Clubs and further confirm that, 
as a result, the Clubs will continue to operate for the benefit of members. I presume Mr W 
received a copy of this letter or something similar.
On the face of it, therefore, the services linked to Mr Ws purchase of the points remain 
available to him and are unaffected by the liquidation. Indeed the agreements used by A 
usually allow for the liquidation of A and its replacement by another provider. That said, I 
cannot say if this was in Mr Ws contract since I have not seen a copy of it.
Given I have not been persuaded that the product was sold as a financial investment I 
cannot conclude that the removal of a sales service by A can been regarded as a breach of 
contract.
S. 140A claims
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr W and Tandem 
were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under s. 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of 
any enactment under s. 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr W could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against Tandem anyway.
Mr Ws alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Tandem assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
Furthermore, one of the main planks of the claim was the allegation that Tandem had paid commission, but it has denied that it paid commission.
Affordability
PR says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible. Tandem has said that it carried out a full credit and affordability 
check and Mr W met its lending criteria.
Our investigator said that she could not see any evidence that Mr W found the loan 
unaffordable. When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large 
consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part 
of the lender. So, if Tandem did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for 
me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr W lost 
out as a result of its failings. Mr W has provided no evidence whatsoever that they would 
have found, nor found, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point 
further.
Conclusion
It is not for me to decide whether Mr W has a claim against A, or whether he might therefore 
have a like claim under s. 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor can I make orders under s. 
140A and s. 140A of the same Act  by which a court can decide that a credit agreement 
creates an unfair relationship and make orders amending it.
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Ws 
complaint. In the circumstances, I think that Tandems response to Mr Ws claims was fair 
and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman