DRN-3265937
The complaint
Mr W complains on behalf of T (an unincorporated association). 
Mr W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) caused delays after a request 
was made to change the signatories on Ts bank account. He also complains about poor 
service and post being incorrectly addressed.
What happened
It took about three months for the signatories to be updated, from when the request was first 
made. RBS has accepted that it caused some delays, and it has credited Ts account with 
£200 compensation.
Mr W says T is seeking compensation of four figures, and a face-to-face apology from the 
most senior employee at his local RBS branch. 
One of our investigators has considered the complaint. He thought RBS was responsible for 
about seven weeks of delay, and he accepted there had been instances of poor service. He 
also acknowledged that, due to the delays, Mr W had to use £3,085 from his own personal 
bank account to fund activities for Ts members. 
Mr W also withdrew a further £1,985 from his own bank account for Ts members expenses. 
However, our investigator noted that RBS did offer to transfer those funds from Ts bank 
account to Mr W, but he declined.
Overall, our investigator thought the £200 compensation was a fair acknowledgment of the 
delays and the other issues. Because Mr W disagreed, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
Mr W has noted that we dont have recordings of his phone calls with RBS. He says they will 
show RBS told him lies and fobbed him off. He also says the £200 compensation doesnt 
reflect his personal circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The delays and issues that Mr W has raised arent in dispute. So, like our investigator, what 
I need to decide here is whether the £200 compensation fairly acknowledges the impact on 
T and Mr W.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr W would like us to listen to the phone calls hes referred to, having 
considered the submissions we have received, I dont consider the phone calls to be 
necessary in order to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mr W has been a member of T, which is a club, for 37 years. He says he was concerned that 
if the planned activities for the clubs members didnt go ahead, it would fold. So, whilst the 
signatory issue was ongoing, he financed the activities from his own savings. Hes told us 
that this caused a rift with his family, as he was unable to help finance his daughters 
wedding.
Ive seen that T, and Mr W, have been caused inconvenience. I also acknowledge Mr W has 
been caused frustration and upset by the various issues. However, I cant reasonably decide 
RBS was responsible for Mr W not being able to contribute towards his daughters wedding.
Ultimately, it was his decision to personally finance the clubs activities and expenses. Also, 
I cant reasonably decide RBS was responsible for any uncertainty surrounding Ts future. 
The commitment of the clubs members cant reasonably be said to be connected to the 
delays or issues RBS is responsible for.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but having carefully considered the information presented and 
arguments made, overall, Im persuaded the £200 compensation has fairly acknowledged 
the delays and issues that occurred, and the impact on T and Mr W.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
T, to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman