DRN-4098330
The complaint
Mr O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly applied a default to his account.
What happened
Mr O had an account with NatWest. In April 2021, Mr O received notification that his account 
would be closed in 60 days and that he needed to repay his overdraft. He says he couldnt 
afford to do this within the 60 days and called NatWest about this. He says he was told to 
wait until the 60 days had passed which he did. He was then told his account had been 
passed to a debt collection company. He called the debt collection company and arranged a 
payment plan which he kept to. 
In October 2022, Mr O says he checked his credit file and found there were missed 
payments recorded. He raised a complaint which was upheld, and he was paid £100. He 
says the missed payments were removed but then a default was applied as well as a further 
missed payment. Mr O also says the default amount didnt match the amount he owed. He 
says the default should be removed. 
NatWest issued a final response letter dated 14 December 2022. It noted Mr Os complaint 
about being told the debt collection company owned his debt and accepted that he had been 
misadvised. It said that the debt collection company was working on its behalf, and it was 
NatWest that was responsible for updating his credit file. It noted Mr Os comments about 
missed payments and said that his account should have been marked with a default from 
July 2022 as this was when the account entered recoveries. It apologised for the time taken 
to resolve his complaint. Given the issues raised NatWest sent Mr O a cheque for £100. 
NatWest sent a second final response letter dated 4 January 2023 in which it reiterated its 
previous position set out in the 14 December 2022 final response letter and said two new 
points had been raised: the recording of the default marker and the balance amount. It 
explained that it can take six to eight weeks for a credit file to be updated and this was the 
reason for the difference in the balance amount Mr O noted. It confirmed his balance as of 
that time. It didnt accept that the default had been recorded incorrectly. 
Mr O referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He 
said the default was an accurate reflection of Mr Os account and that the information 
provided along with the account closure notice gave Mr O the information he needed about 
what would happen if repayment wasnt made within the required timeframe. He did think the 
advisers Mr O spoke to could have emphasised the possible impact on Mr Os credit file but 
didnt find he had been mis-led or mis-advised. He thought the £100 compensation paid was 
an adequate award for the misinformation about the role of the debt collection company and 
the issues in updating Mr Os credit file. 
Mr O repaid the amount outstanding on his account and was concerned that his credit file 
didnt show this. NatWest said the balance was repaid on 19 April, but Mr O said he repaid 
this in March 2023. Our investigator said that the evidence provided by NatWest showed the 
payment being received on 19 April and so he didnt think it had done anything wrong in 
regard to this date. NatWest confirmed that Mr Os credit file would be updated to show the 
debt as satisfied with a zero balance remaining. 
Mr O didnt agree that the default had been recorded fairly. He said he had an arranged 
overdraft and had never exceeded it and when he received notice of his account closure, he 
contacted NatWest. He says he relied on the information given to him about waiting until the 
60 days had passed and that NatWest would then make an arrangement for him to repay the 
outstanding balance. He reiterated that his credit file hadnt accurately reflected his 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr O is upset that a default was applied to his account as well as the 
other issues he has experienced in regard to the reporting on his credit file. For me to uphold 
this complaint I would need to be satisfied that NatWest had done something wrong or 
treated Mr O unfairly and not taken adequate actions to address any mistakes.
I have considered first the issue regarding the recording of a default on Mr Os credit file. 
Mr O was sent a letter from NatWest dated 7 April 2022 saying that his account would be 
closed. It provided Mr O with 60 days notice of the account closure and explained that Mr O 
would need to make alternative banking arrangements. It formally demanded the repayment 
of funds owed to the bank by the end of the 60-day period after which its usual debt recovery 
process would follow. It noted that if repayment wasnt made within the 60 days this could be 
reported to the credit reference agencies. Mr O did have an overdraft at the time and based 
on this letter I think NatWest made it clear this needed to be repaid within 60 days or this 
would impact Mr Os credit file.
The letter also said that if Mr O wasnt able to clear the account within the 60-day period he 
should call. Mr O did call NatWest and he says that he was told to wait until the end of the 
60-day period at which point a payment plan could be set up. He says this meant he wasnt 
expecting a default to be recorded. I have listened to two calls in April 2022 and Mr O says 
that he cant afford to make his overdraft repayment and he is told he will be passed to the 
relevant team. He then speaks to an adviser and asks about payment to his credit card and 
to be transferred to the credit card team. Mr O then calls NatWest in May 2022 and he 
explains he has an overdraft and loans. He is told that if he cant pay back the overdraft 
within the 60 days, he will need to give another team a call (and is provided with the 
telephone number) and a payment plan can be set up. Mr O then calls NatWests debt 
management operations department. Mr O explains he has a loan and overdraft on his 
account, and he cant settle these before his account is due to close. He is told that he will 
need to speak to the lending team to set up payments towards his loan and that his overdraft 
will go to a debt collection agency. On these calls any impact on his credit file isnt 
discussed.
Having listened to the calls, Mr O didnt ask about any impact on his credit file and so I 
cannot say that he was mis-led or mis-advised in regard to this. I do think it would have been 
helpful for the adviser to have made it clear that even though a repayment plan could be set 
Mr Os credit file would still be affected in the event the overdraft wasnt repaid within the 60-
day period. But as the account closure set out what would happen if repayment wasnt made 
and no further information was given to the contrary in regard to the impact on Mr Os credit 
file, I do not find I can say the NatWest did anything wrong by continuing with its usual debt 
recovery process and applying the default. 
I have looked through NatWests system notes and Mr O contacted it in October 2022. The information recorded says that Mr O is aware his account has a default but that his credit file 
has reduced, and he wants to understand why. NatWest addressed the issue that missed 
payments had been applied to Mr Os account in its final response letter dated 14 December 
2022. It confirmed that missed payments were showing incorrectly and a default should be 
recorded. It confirmed it had contacted the credit reference agency about this. 
Mr O then raised concerns about the balance recorded on this account. I can appreciate that 
he was concerned his payments werent being reflected but it was explained there is a time 
delay in getting the balance reflected on his credit file. Mr O repaid the balance in March 
2023 and NatWest has shown the final payment being received on 19 April 2023. I 
understand that this delay has caused Mr O concerns, but NatWest has confirmed that the 
balance has been paid in full and Mr Os credit file will be updated (which should have now 
happened) to show the debt has been paid and there is no balance outstanding. 
I can understand why Mr O is upset by the experience he has had since he was notified that 
his account would be closed. However, on balance, I do not find I can say that NatWest did 
anything wrong by applying the default when it did. There have been other issues, including 
information about the role of the debt collection company, the missed payments on Mr Os 
credit file and his concerns about the balance amount. While these have been addressed by 
NatWest, I appreciate they have caused Mr O distress and inconvenience. Given this I agree 
that he should be compensated but, in this case, I consider the £100 compensation that has 
already been paid is reasonable. I therefore do not require NatWest to do anything further in 
resolution of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman