DRN-4408013
The complaint
Mr W complains that Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by a scam, or to help him recover the money once hed reported the 
scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In August 2022, Mr W received a genuine letter from HMRC which stated that if he didn't pay 
the tax he owed, he would be summoned to court. Around the same time, he received a call 
from someone Ill refer to as the scammer. The scammer claimed to work for the Ministry of 
Justice (MoJ) and said that Mr W would be subject to a criminal investigation if he didnt 
pay the tax. Mr W questioned the authenticity of the caller and was told to check the number 
on the MoJ website, which matched the number the scammer was calling from.
The scammer asked Mr W to communicate with him via WhatsApp and to open an account 
with Wise to make the tax payment. Mr W thought it was MoJ protocol to take payments 
from Wise, so he opened a Wise account and transferred money into it from another of his 
bank accounts. From there, he made payments for £1,613, £981, and £500 to account 
details provided by the scammer without any intervention from Wise. There was also a fourth 
payment but this was cancelled.
When Mr W began to suspect hed been scammed, he contacted MoJ and it confirmed it 
would never ask someone to transfer money. He then contacted Wise, but it refused to 
refund any of the money. It said that once a transfer is sent, the funds are no longer under its 
control and the obligation of ensuring the legitimacy of the recipient on any given transaction 
lies with the sender of the payment. It said that once it was made aware of the recipient bank 
account possibly being used for scam purposes, it took appropriate action to prevent further 
transfers and it had attempted a recall to the beneficiary bank, but the recall had failed. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said he wanted Wise to 
either reverse the transactions or refund the amount in compensation. He said it took a long 
time to investigate his claim which meat he lost the opportunity to trace the scammer and get 
his money back. He also said the account he paid didnt match the payee details, and Wise 
should have realised the payments were high-risk.
Wise said there was no previous transaction history to compare the payments to, so it 
couldnt reasonably determine that they were uncharacteristic or suspicious in nature and Mr 
W was using the account the way it expects its customers to use it i.e. sending GBP to 
recipient bank accounts. It said it had no suspicions regarding the recipient account details 
and the payment reference didnt indicate what the transfer was for or raise any red flags. It 
also said its fraud and scam prevention tools were working as intended, and it didnt feel 
there was anything it could have done differently to prevent Mr Ws loss.
It said Mr W wasnt asked for a purpose when he opened the account. There were no 
warning messages displayed when he made the payments, but he was shown a 
confirmation of payee warning because the payee details didnt match and he confirmed he 
accepted the risk. It noted it didnt block the fourth payment, it was cancelled by Mr W.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He noted the account was 
newly opened and even though the payments were to a new payee, they werent high value 
so he didnt think Wise needed to intervene. 
However, our investigator also noted that Mr W complained to Wise on 31 August 2022, but 
it didnt send a recovery email until 7 September 2022, by which time the funds had been 
removed from the recipient account. He explained that Wise has an internal service level 
agreement of two days to send recovery requests, so a recovery email should have been 
sent by 2 September 2022. Because of this, he recommended it should refund the money Mr 
W had lost. But he explained that if Wise was able to provide evidence from the beneficiary 
bank that Mr Ws money had been removed before 2 September 2022, he would reassess 
his opinion.
Finally, our investigator noted Mr W did owe tax, so he had a reasonable basis to believe the 
fraudulent call was genuine. He did question the authenticity of the call, but he was 
reassured because he checked the number on the MoJ website. And he wasnt too 
concerned that the payees name didnt match the account details because hed previously 
made payments without a match.
Finally, our investigator said Wise should have told Mr W on 12 September 2022 that the 
recovery had been unsuccessful, so it should pay him £50 compensation for its failure to do 
so.
Wise hasnt responded to the view, so the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
Im satisfied Mr W authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Its not in dispute that this was a scam, but although Mr W didnt intend his money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. Wise is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Wise could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Wise is an EMI and at the time these events took place it wasnt subject to all of 
the same rules, regulations and best practice that applied to banks and building societies. But it was subject to the FCAs Principles for Businesses and BCOBS 2 and owed a duty of 
care to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as reasonably 
possible.
As this was a new account, there was no transaction history to compare the payments with, 
but Ive considered whether the payments should have triggered an intervention from Wise 
and I dont think they should. Mr W was warned that the payee details didnt match and he 
confirmed he was happy to go ahead. And none of the payments were for particularly large 
amounts, so I dont think they were suspicious.
Recovery
Mr W reported the scam to Wise on 31 August 2022 and it sent a recovery email to the 
recipient bank on 7 September 2022, but no funds remained. Wises internal service level 
agreement requires it to send recovery requests within two days and as it failed to do this, 
Im satisfied it should refund the money Mr W lost to the scam. Our investigator said that he 
would review this if Wise could show evidence that the funds were no longer in the recipient 
account on 2 September 2022, but it hasnt produced this evidence.
Contributory negligence
Ive considered whether the settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence, but I 
dont think it should. Mr W has explained that he did have an outstanding tax bill, so I dont 
think it was unreasonable for him to have fallen for the scam. And he didnt question why he 
was being asked to make payments to MoJ because hes not from the UK. He has also 
explained that the number the scammer called him from matched the number on the MoJ 
website, so he was satisfied the call was genuine. And he went ahead with the payment 
even though the payee details didnt match because hed received that message before 
without a problem. 
Having considered the circumstances of this scam, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr 
W to have thought it was genuine. So, while there may be cases where a reduction for 
contributory negligence is appropriate, I dont think this is one of them.
Compensation
Our investigator has recommended that Wise should pay Mr W £50 for failures in its 
communication and Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Wise Payments Limited should:
Refund £3,099.80 to Mr W
Pay 8% simple interest from the date of the payments to the settlement date
Pay Mr W £50 compensation for its handling of the claim.
*If Wise deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should provide Mr W 
with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Carolyn BonnellOmbudsman