DRN-1134611
The complaint
Mr T complains about delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC when sending copies of his bank 
statements. 
What happened
On 29 April 2019  Mr T called Barclays and asked for copies of his bank statements going 
back to December 2018. The call handler told Mr T he would send statements up to 5 March 
2019 and arrange for statements  from 6 March 2019 to 29 April 2019 to be sent. Mr T called 
Barclays back on 2 May 2019 and was advised that his statements had been sent and would 
arrive shortly. 
On 8 May 2019 Mr T called Barclays again as he hadnt received all of his statements. Mr T 
explained that he only had statements covering the period up to 5 March 2019. During this 
call Mr T raised a complaint. The complaint handler told Mr T the rest of his statements 
would be sent and paid him £25. 
On 11 May 2019 Mr T spoke with Barclays again and advised the rest of his statements 
hadnt been received. The call handler printed out the rest of Mr Ts statements and told him 
she would personally put them in the post that day. 
The statements werent received and Mr T called Barclays again on 15 May 2019. The call 
handler printed off Mr Ts account ledgers for the period required and arranged for them to 
be sent by recorded delivery, meaning someone at Mr Ts home would need to sign for 
them. Barclays relooked at Mr Ts complaint and paid him a further £50 to apologise for the 
delays. The statements werent successfully delivered so Mr T had to pick them up from a 
Post Office which caused further delays. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. Hes explained that the delay meant he wasnt 
able to send his statements to a debt advice service that was helping him negotiate with his 
creditors. Mr Ts told us that the delay meant he had to pay interest on his debts for an 
additional month.  An investigator looked at Mr Ts case but thought Barclays had dealt with 
it fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr T asked to appeal so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr T is upset. He asked for statements that were needed to help 
negotiate with his creditors with the assistance of a debt advice service. Mr T asked for 
statements on 29 April 2019, but they werent received until Barclays sent account ledgers 
on 15 May 2019, over two weeks later. Mr T says that the delay led to additional interest 
costs being paid. Ive looked at the timeline for Mr Ts complaint to see whether Barclays 
treated him fairly. It seems clear that there were some delays in sending out the statements. Mr T received 
statements up to 5 March 2019 following his call on 29 April 2019. But the rest of the 
statements Barclays had promised to send were missing. Despite Mr T calling Barclays 
again on 2 May 2019, the rest of his statements werent requested again until 8 May 2019, 
when he complained. 
Mr T called Barclays back on 11 May 2019 and was placed on hold while the rest of his 
statements were printed again. The call handler promised to personally put them in the post 
that day. Whilst I understand Mr T didnt receive those statements, on balance, Im satisfied 
they were posted as Barclays claims. 
As Mr T didnt receive anything after his call on 11 May 2019, he phoned Barclays back and 
complained again on 15 May 2019. Barclays agreed to increase the compensation by £50 
and arranged for a set of account ledgers to be posted to Mr T. During the call Mr T 
confirmed he would either be at home to receive the letter or could pick it up from the Post 
Office. I understand Mr T later found that there was a delay in collecting the letter from the 
Post Office. But Barclays specifically checked that Mr T wanted his account ledgers to be 
sent via recorded delivery and he confirmed he did. Im satisfied Barclays was acting in line 
with Mr Ts instructions so Im not persuaded it would be fair to award further compensation 
for the delay he faced collecting the statements. 
When Mr T referred his complaint the investigator asked him to contact the debt advice 
service to get evidence of his losses. They wanted to see something that showed Mr T had 
been charged more interest because of Barclays delay. But Mr T wasnt able to provide 
anything to show his loss. Whilst I understand Mr Ts point, we wouldnt normally award 
costs without evidence of a loss. Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but I havent seen anything to 
show the delay led to additional costs so Im not going to tell Barclays to compensate him 
further. 
I can see how frustrating the situation was. Ive considered everything Mr T has told us about 
how the situation impacted him and his state of mind at the time. Having done so, Im 
satisfied that £75 is fair in all the circumstances and takes into account the impact of the 
delay and frustration caused. As Im satisfied Barclays has dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly, 
Im not telling it to take any other action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman