DRN-1895705
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund two payments, which he said he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr K is disputing two online transfers for £1,350 and £1,650, which were made to an account 
with another bank. He said hed made a cash deposit into his account on 21 October 2019. 
At around 5pm, he logged on to his online banking to check that the cash had credited his 
account. He said that was when he noticed the two transfers. He said he called Lloyds 
immediately and asked it to reverse the disputed transactions, but it didnt.
Mr K raised a fraud complaint with Lloyds. He said his name appears as the payee, but this 
wasnt his account, although he did have an account with the receiving bank. He thought this 
was suspicious. He also complained that Lloyds didnt try to stop the disputed transactions 
or recover his money. He asked for a refund.
Lloyds investigated his complaint and decided not to refund him. It said the disputed 
transactions were made via his online banking app on 21 October 2019. Its records showed 
that Mr K had logged on to his mobile banking app with fingerprint or facial ID. It said hed 
told the bank that his phone was always with him, no-one had access to it, and he hadnt 
shared his login details with anyone else.  Hed also admitted that hed logged on to his 
mobile banking and had clicked a button by mistake, not realising it was an instruction to 
transfer money. Therefore, Lloyds concluded that hed authorised the two disputed 
transactions and it didnt contact the receiving bank. 
Mr K didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to this service. He told this service 
that he believed the disputed transactions were connected to another incident when 
someone had used his banking details fraudulently for shopping. He also confirmed that he 
hadnt received any phishing emails or unsolicited calls.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She concluded that Mr K 
had authorised the two transfers and that Lloyds was entitled to refuse a refund. She 
explained that Lloyds had two days in which to try to recover the money, if it had been sent 
in error. She said there was no evidence that it had made any attempt to contact the 
receiving bank. However, as the third party had withdrawn the money within a few hours, it 
was highly unlikely that Lloyds wouldve recovered the money anyway.
Mr K didnt accept the investigators view. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, Im afraid my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In short, Lloyds is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017).  But the bank can hold Mr K liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Ive seen the banks online banking report for Mr Ks account. The report shows that Mr K 
logged on to his mobile banking app at 5.40pm on 21 October 2019 using fingerprint or facial 
recognition ID. The transfers were made at 7.58pm and 7.59 pm via his mobile banking app. 
Im satisfied the transfers were authenticated by the app. But the regulations relevant to this 
case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Lloyds to hold him liable. So, I also need 
to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr K 
consented to the transfers being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that Mr K 
consented to the transfers and consequently that he authorised the disputed transactions.
according to the online banking report, Mr Ks fingerprint was used to log on to his 
mobile app at 5.40pm. 
Mr K admits he logged on at around 5pm
his mobile app was used to set up the new payee details
the report shows that the system sent a message via the app asking him to confirm 
that hed set up the new payee 
the transfers were approved via the mobile banking app
Mr K said no-one else had access to his phone or knew his mobile banking details
Mr K admits he approved the transfers but said they were made in error.
Based on this evidence, I am satisfied that it was Mr K who made the transfers and not 
anyone else. Besides, he couldnt explain how anyone else couldve set up the new payee 
details on his mobile banking app. Moreover, his evidence that he clicked a button by 
mistake is inconsistent with the technical evidence which shows that several steps were 
needed before the transfers could be made.
I think whats happened here is that Mr K changed his mind at the last minute and tried to 
recall or stop the transfers. And he might think that, by changing his mind, he didnt consent 
to the transfers.  However, under the relevant regulations, a payment instruction is regarded 
as having been authorised by the payer if the payer has given his consent to the execution 
of the payment transaction, in accordance with the procedure set out in the terms and 
conditions for the account. Typically, this means that the payer has used an approved 
payment method such as a debit card or in this case the mobile banking app.
A payer is still treated as having consented to a payment even where he has changed his 
mind after the payment has been made.
Where theres clear evidence of a genuine mistake, then according to the industry guidance, 
Lloyds had two working days to contact the receiving bank. The receiving bank told this 
service that Lloyds didnt contact it within that timescale. I assume thats because it didnt 
think there was clear evidence of a genuine mistake. However, I dont believe it would have 
made a difference to the outcome if Lloyds had contacted the receiving bank within the timescale because the third party had withdrawn most of the money within two hours and all 
of it had gone within six hours. 
I understand Mr K is also unhappy that Lloyds didnt check that the payees name (which 
was his name) matched the accountholders details. However, until this year, banks only 
checked the account number and sort code on faster payments. There was no obligation to 
check the accountholders name. Since Spring 2020, banks have been checking that the 
name entered on a payment instruction matched the the actual name on the account where 
the money is being sent. Unfortunately, this service wasnt available when the disputed 
transfers were made.
In summary, taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr K authorised the 
disputed transfers. It follows that Lloyds is entitled to hold him liable for them. Also, I dont 
think Lloyds wouldve recovered his money if it had contacted him within two day because 
the money was withdrawn within hours. In any event, I dont think there was clear evidence 
that the transfers were a genuine mistake.
Im very sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr K. This looks like hes been duped into 
making a payment but that isnt Mr Ks evidence. However, if hes authorised the payment 
then Im afraid Lloyds doesnt have to refund him. I hope Ive made this clear in the reasons 
for my decision.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman