DRN-1830072
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has avoided her contents insurance policy for 
misrepresentation. She complains she didnt understand how items were valued or that they 
were replaced new for old. 
Mrs C is being assisted in her complaint by Mrs W. 
What happened
Mrs C took out her contents insurance policy through a broker in January 2017.  During this 
process the contents valuation was placed at the maximum claim limit amount of £75,000. 
Mrs C didnt list any items as high-risk property being valued over £2,000.
 
In August 2017, Mrs C was burgled, and a number of items stolen.  Mrs C said four watches, 
two of which were Rolexes, a number of rings, earrings, Chinese gold and jade necklaces 
and bangles, other items of jewellery, two handbags and money in excess of £20,000 was 
stolen. 
A loss adjuster was appointed, and Mrs C asked to complete a contents check list.  Mrs C 
signed the contents checklist as being an accurate assessment of the contents of her home. 
The contents were valued at over £169,000. Because of the difference between the contents 
value when taking out the insurance and at the time of the burglary, Mrs C was asked to 
explain the large difference. Ageas subsequently avoided the policy  i.e. its treated as 
though it never existed  as it would never have agreed to provide cover as the level of risk 
would have been unacceptable to its underwriters. 
Mrs C appealed that decision. She said her son had completed the checklist on her behalf 
and had misheard the value of items (hi-fi at £15,000 when it should have been £1,500); 
items had been included which were bought after the burglary; and some items were in the 
home temporarily or being claimed for under separate business insurance (some of the 
money was business takings). She also said the list had included a fireplace which would be 
classed as a fixture and so not part of the contents. 
Ageas reviewed a revised contents list but this still brought the value in at over £100,000 and 
so was still in excess of its acceptable risk level; and this was done based on some of the 
claim limits within the policy (rather than the actual new-for-old values). So Ageas stood by 
its decision to avoid the policy. Not happy with that, Mrs C asked us to look into matters.
 
Our investigator concluded the policy had been avoided fairly and in line with the options 
open to Ageas under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). He was satisfied Mrs C had misrepresented the value of her contents at the time of 
taking out the insurance and that it was a qualifying misrepresentation  i.e. adversely 
affected the underwriters assessment of the risk  which, because made carelessly, meant 
Ageas was allowed to do what it would have done but for the misrepresentation, namely, 
avoid taking on the risk at all. He also noted that Mrs C hadnt notified Ageas that some of 
her items of jewellery and watches ought to have been specified as high-risk property valued 
at over £2,000 per item. 
Mrs W, on Mrs Cs behalf, has asked for the matter to be reviewed. In summary she has 
said:
The revised contents list provided during our investigation brings the value of the 
contents in at just under £78,000. She believes the insurer would have agreed cover 
as the renewal in 2018 agreed cover for £80,000 of contents. 
Mrs C wasnt asked a clear question when taking out the policy. Mrs C recalls being 
asked how many bedrooms the property had and a contents value of £75,000 being 
assigned to that by the insurer. The statement of insurance is of poor quality and 
contains illegible small print. 
Page 12 of the policy says that if  the contents sum insured is not enough to 
replace the entire contents of your home as new, we will proportionally reduce the 
amount of any claim payment made by the percentage of under payment of premium 
which has arisen as a result of the shortfall in the sum assured. (This is known in the 
industry as an average clause.)
CIDRA schedule 1, part 1 says that if a qualifying misrepresentation was careless, 
then s.8 of the Act will apply (proportional claim). 
Avoiding the policy isnt acceptable as:
othe insurer needs to show there was a breach of the Act, but
othe insurer did not record the telesales
othe insurer did not keep a transcript of their telesales
othe insurer did not provide Mrs C with a good copy of the Statement of Facts
othe answers werent specific and clear as per CIDRA
opage 12 of the policy document gives an example of an acceptable tolerance 
level for the value
oMrs C wasnt made aware of the consequences of underinsuring
oThis wasnt a qualifying misrepresentation. 
The ABI and CIDRA guidelines are clear about the questions asked but the 
Statement of Facts, which is the only real evidence, isnt clear. 
Our investigator replied, explaining that a proportionate settlement isnt applicable in this 
case (even for a merely careless misrepresentation) as Ageas would never have offered any 
cover at all. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under CIDRA there is a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer. And CIDRA sets out that whether or not a consumer has 
taken reasonable care is to be determined in light of all the relevant circumstances, including 
amongst others, how clear the questions were, and whether an agent was acting for the 
consumer. 
Mrs W has made a lot of submissions about Ageas not having a copy of the call that took 
place when the policy was arranged; it didnt record it or keep a transcript and clear 
questions werent asked by it. However, this sale was conducted through an independent 
broker acting on Mrs Cs behalf. In such circumstances there is no requirement, nor would I 
expect, an insurer to obtain a copy of any sales call or transcript as a matter of course. The 
requirement to ask clear questions becomes the responsibility of the broker not the insurer.
 Ageas has provided evidence to show that at the time Mrs C took out her contents insurance 
policy it would only agree cover if the contents were valued at £75,000 or less. If contents 
were valued over this sum, it would have declined cover. 
Given the arguments made, the first thing I need to consider is the value of the contents. Mrs 
W has submitted a revised contents list bringing in the value at a little under £78,000. It 
should be noted that some of the items have had their value changed for the third time.  The 
policy defines contents as:
Household goods, high-risk property, business equipment, pedal cycles, money, 
credit cards and personal belongings you or your family are legally responsible for, 
but not
(a) Items held or used for business purposes (either totally or partly) other than 
business equipment;
(b) motor vehicles, aircraft, caravans, trailers, boats, or any of their parts and 
accessories;
(c) animals, birds, fish or any living thing, and
(d)interior decorations. 
Mrs C initially signed an agreement that her contents were valued in excess of £169,000. It 
was her responsibility to ensure the list and values given were accurate. Nevertheless I can 
see that Ageas has allowed amendments to be made to that list. But I can also see that both 
Mrs W and Ageas have applied the policy claim limit to some items  such as cash, which 
has a limit of £750. But that isnt right. That Mrs C might have only been able to claim £750 
for cash, doesnt mean that was the actual value of cash that made up part of her contents 
and was therefore material to the risk being proposed for cover at the point of sale. 
When completing a list of items she wished to claim for, this included £19,000 for Mrs C 
(which she kept in a safe and under a mattress) and £1,500 for another party, some of which 
was in a different currency. But Mrs C later changed this to £10,000 being business takings 
(and claimed for under business insurance), £4,000 was money belonging to her children 
and £5,000 was a friends and about £1,000 her and her husbands personal money. There 
is clearly some discrepancy between what Mrs C initially said when listing the items being 
claimed for and what she later submitted when appealing the contents list  particularly in 
regard to who owned what money.  But even if I just included the money that she later said 
was personal money and her childrens, this would bring the list of contents in at over 
£82,000 (assuming the third list is accurate which is far from certain). 
Mrs W has also submitted that the jewellery and watches were valued at just over £30,000 
whereas the jewellery appraisers calculated the retail price as in excess of £37,000. Whilst 
the loss adjuster/insurer might have been able to replace the items more cheaply, it is the 
actual value/risk that is relevant when calculating a contents valuation. This again adds 
several thousand pounds to the revised contents list and alone would also have increased 
the value to well over the £75,000 limit. Overall, Im satisfied that whatever list is used the 
value of the contents was in excess of the maximum amount Ageas would have insured at 
the time. That Ageas increased the maximum allowable at a later renewal does not affect 
that. 
This means the information provided to Ageas at the time of taking out the policy was 
incorrect.  And Ageas did provide cover it otherwise wouldnt have done. Under CIDRA 
Ageas does have a remedy against Mrs C if it can show any misrepresentation was made in 
breach of her duty to take reasonable care and the insurer would not have entered into the 
contract or would have done so on different terms. These are known as qualifying 
misrepresentations. If I find that Mrs C didnt take reasonable care, then Ageas does have the remedy of 
avoiding the policy (because, whilst a consumer does have a proportionate remedy in cases 
of mere carelessness, that is not viable where the underwriting evidence indicates that the 
insurer would not have gone on risk at all but for the misrepresented information). But if I 
find, taking into account all the relevant circumstances, Mrs C did take reasonable care, then 
Ageas doesnt have a remedy against Mrs C even though she did provide incorrect 
information. 
As set out above, we dont know what questions Mrs C was asked. The sale was conducted 
through a broker. And although Ageas has tried to find out this information, it hasnt received 
a reply as it appears the broker is no longer trading. Mrs W says Mrs C was given a contents 
value when asked how many bedrooms she had. I accept this is possible, but if that is what 
happened that would mean the broker, who was acting on Mrs Cs behalf, didnt take 
reasonable care. 
I have considered the Statement of Insurance as this is also evidence to show what was 
asked. Right at the top of the statement it says:
Your policy is based on the answers on the Statement of insurance. You must tell us 
of any changes to the answers you have stated on this form as soon as possible. 
Failure to advise of a change to your answers may mean that your policy is 
invalid and claims may not be paid.
Im satisfied the Statement of Insurance sets out the importance of the answers being 
correct clearly. It also warned of possible consequences. This is written in the same size font 
as much of the document and the bold section is as it appears. 
Further down the document is the section covering contents.  This says:
2 Maximum Claim Limit
The maximum claim limit must be sufficient to cover the full replacement 
cost of all the contents in the home as new. 
I accept the font underneath Maximum Claim Limit is smaller. But that doesnt mean it isnt 
clear. Im satisfied it clearly sets out the limit needs to enable a replacement of all contents 
as new. Mrs C has argued that she didnt realise the replacement would be as new and 
thought old items would be replaced with second-hand or old items. But I dont find this 
persuasive; unlike most types of indemnity insurances, almost all household contents 
policies are written on a new-for-old basis and have been for many years. And in any event, 
as shown above, this was explained on the Statement of Insurance, as well as in the policy 
document setting out the detailed terms and conditions. Therefore, Mrs C ought to have 
known the intention of the cover was to replace items as new  so the proposed risk would 
be assessed and accepted/declined on that basis. 
It doesnt appear that Mrs C took any or any reasonable steps to check the value of the 
contents she was seeking to insure. And I note she never indicated that the replacement 
value of any one item of high-risk property exceeded £2,000. High-risk property includes 
jewellery, watches, and photographic equipment. The jewellery appraiser valued both the 
Rolex watches and two of the rings far in excess of £2,000 each. Whilst some of the items 
might have been old, that doesnt always mean of less value; indeed I think most people 
know, or assume, Rolexes to be high in value. 
The Statement of Insurance is the best evidence available of what was discussed when the 
policy was arranged. And Im satisfied the statement is clear in requiring the information to 
be accurate. It was open to Mrs C to ensure she was answering the questions accurately; by £75,000not checking the value of her contents  including the high-risk items  Im not persuaded 
she met her duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
It's arguable the misrepresentation was reckless insofar as Mrs C effectively made, or failed 
to contradict, statements as to value without any real thought or enquiry. In other words, she 
made or consented to statements that she simply did not know or care whether they be true 
or false. That is generally regarded as recklessness. But it is not even necessary to go that 
far  for the reasons alluded to above: the remedy for the insurer is the same in this case 
whether the misrepresentation is reckless or merely careless. This is because the 
underwriting evidence is that such a high risk would always have been rejected by Ageas at 
that time. 
Under CIDRA an insurers remedy for a careless misrepresentation is based on what it 
would have done but for the misrepresentation. Schedule 1 Part 1 (5) allows the insurer to 
avoid the contract and refuse all claims but return premiums paid, if the insurer wouldnt 
have entered into the contract.  As set out above, Ageas has provided evidence that it 
wouldnt have offered Mrs C cover  and I understand it has already refunded her premiums. 
So, on that basis, I am prepared to accept this was a careless misrepresentation despite all 
the inconsistencies and unsatisfactory discrepancies in the circumstances and presentation 
of the claim (which may sometimes undermine a policyholders case that they acted 
reasonably or in good faith at the point of sale). But it is finely balanced. 
Mrs W has argued that CIDRA Schedule 1 Part 1 (8) would apply for a careless 
misrepresentation  this allows any claim payment to be reduced proportionately. This is the 
same remedy that Mrs W refers to on page 12 of the policy (the average clause). But as can 
been seen from the Act and what I have quoted above, there are several remedies open to 
insurers when a misrepresentation has been deemed careless. And Im satisfied Ageas has 
shown it would never have provided cover at all; the provisions of (8) and page 12 only apply 
if cover would have been given but the premium would have been higher  that isnt 
applicable here. 
The average clause gives an insurer the appropriate remedy where something has gone 
wrong in the estimate of value but everyone is satisfied the policyholder acted honestly to 
the best of their knowledge and belief. If that were the case here, we would not even be 
considering CIDRA, qualifying misrepresentations or voidance, but asking the insurer just to 
apply its contractual remedy of average (per the case of Economides v Commercial Union 
Assurance Co plc [1998] Lloyd's Rep IR 9). However, for the reasons explained, I am not 
satisfied that Mrs C gave any real thought to the application process  or, indeed, presented 
her claim accurately with the care and attention required. So, treating her as an innocent but 
mistaken applicant would seem neither fair nor reasonable. 
Having considered the evidence and arguments carefully, Im satisfied Ageas hasnt acted 
unfairly, unreasonably, or contrary to the provisions of CIDRA when avoiding Mrs Cs policy. 
It appears to have erred on the side of giving her the benefit of the doubt, e.g. with a 
premium refund (which would not apply in cases of recklessness, for example). I therefore 
find no basis on which to ask it to reinstate cover or continue with the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman