DRN-1508506
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited has amended the terms of its Vitality Plus 
rewards programme, part of his personal protection policy. This has meant he has lost 75% 
of the cinema ticket benefit.
To resolve his complaint he wants the benefit to be reinstated back to how it was before the 
reduction in March 2019 along with compensation for the fact he has had to purchase an 
annual cinema pass. 
What happened
Mr M took out a PruProtect with Vitality policy in May 2012. The policy provides level life and 
critical illness benefit for an 18-year term.
For an additional payment (noted as £4 per month within the policy documentation) on the 
monthly policy premium, Mr M also paid to be a member of the Vitality Plus programme. 
Unlike his main insurance policy, Vitality Plus is an annual programme that runs between 
policy anniversaries. Each year on its expiry, the policyholder may renew it for another year 
or inform Vitality that it is no longer required. It can also be cancelled with 30 days notice.
The scheme is a health and wellness programme. It provides discounts and benefits to 
members that achieve Vitality points, which count towards their Vitality status (increasing 
from bronze, silver, gold and platinum). These are attained on measurable activities such as 
exercise and health check-ups.  
In March 2019, Vitality changed the terms of the Vitality Plus programme in a few differing 
ways. One of the amendments was to cinema ticket benefit, which was now capped at a 
maximum of 36 per year. For Mr M, this meant that the benefit was reduced to three cinema 
tickets per month, as opposed to three per week up until that point. Members had been 
informed of the forthcoming changes to the programme in a letter of November 2018.
Mr M complained. Vitality told Mr M that the benefit was being utilised by a very small 
proportion of its members (3%) and it had made a business decision to change the benefit to 
provide digital streaming via Amazon Prime instead.
Vitality rejected the complaint. It explained it has introduced a cap on the number of cinema 
rewards (in Mr Ms case, 36) available to members after it had conducted a comprehensive 
review of the benefits available. It took the view that the continuing with the cinema reward in 
its previous format was no longer sustainable or cost effective but rather than reduce it 
entirely, it introduced a cap and brought in the Amazon Prime benefit.
Further, Vitality said it was not discriminating against any particular members in making its 
decision. It said it treated its customers fairly and was accountable to the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It said it had shown that the decisions it made were 
based on a number of factors linked to both the needs of its members and the business.
In September 2019, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He said he was unhappy with Vitalitys justification of actively discriminating against 3% of its members, which would 
equate to some 30,000 people. He felt that one offering was not a replacement for the other 
and he and his children would not benefit from it in the same way. As a result, he has had to 
purchase an annual cinema ticket for £215, meaning that along with his additional weekly 
tickets for his children (save for the one week Vitality provides) places him at a financial 
disadvantage of over £50 per month.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He said it could not succeed, as he did not 
think Vitality had acted unfairly in the circumstances.
Specifically, he said there was no guarantee under the rewards scheme that the benefits 
available at inception would always stay the same. He thought Vitality was acting in line with 
the terms of the policy when it changed the benefit, and therefore it hadnt done anything 
wrong by amending it and telling Mr M that it had done so. He therefore said he didnt 
believe he could order Vitality to reinstate Mr Ms particular cinema ticket benefit.
Mr M said he didnt agree. He said the change was unfair and he felt that this service ought 
to tell Vitality to offer him a suitable alternative. He also noted that one section of the policy 
terms said Vitality would consult an appropriate expert if it made changes to the scheme and 
he wanted to know if it had done so on this occasion.
Our investigator put Mr Ms further points to Vitality, and queried further the specifics of the 
change made to the cinema tickets benefit.
Vitality said its terms set out that it would consult with an independent expert if it was making 
a change to the main benefit such as the health product or life cover offered by the policy. 
For the rewards and partner schemes offered as additional benefits, the terms allowed it to 
make reasonable changes to those offerings.
In this specific case, it undertook a consideration of the needs of its members. The move to 
include a benefit of digital streaming and reduce cinema tickets was to reflect that two of the 
cinema chains included as partners have limited locations and therefore fewer members 
were able to use the benefit.
Mr M said he still disagreed and he wanted an ombudsman to look into the complaint. He 
made several further points:
 
Vitality noted how it aimed to continually improve and alter the scheme to ensure it is 
matching the needs of all of its members, yet as he has previously noted, 
approximately 30,000 members (3%) had been detrimentally affected by the change;
the additional benefit of digital streaming (Amazon Prime) may benefit may suit more 
customers, it still isn't suitable for all of its customers;
a number of customers (Mr M included) are not only worse off by the 75% reduction 
in cinema tickets, they have not taken advantage of the Amazon Prime offer because 
it has various restrictions;
those restrictions include achieving forty points per week but where this is not 
achieved per month there is a £10 fee for the Amazon membership;
it is also a credit agreement;
it takes no account of Mr Ms platinum healthy Vitality status;
if a member is unable to achieve the 160-point per month target due to accident, 
illness or being away on holiday then this isnt reflected anywhere;
unless a member otherwise benefits from using Amazon (such as for deliveries) then 
the service is not of additional value;digital streaming is counter-intuitive to the purpose of earning points each week for 
keeping fit and healthy; 
he and his wife (they each have policies) pay over £300 per month to Vitality in policy 
premiums;
Vitality could have asked a cross section of their members on their thoughts and any 
suggestions they might have had for a viable alternative other than Amazon Prime 
before deciding to implement such a drastic change;
there are a number of other reductions (Mr M provided a non-exhaustive list) to other 
benefits of the scheme in the last eight years and these have been gradually 
diminishing;
he therefore disputes that the benefits have improved and also disagrees that 
suitable alternatives have been offered;
he remains of the view that the Financial Ombudsman Service ought to intervene and 
reinstate the benefit of cinema tickets that he has lost.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though I realise my decision will be a disappointment for Mr M, I have reached the same 
view as our investigator. I wont be asking Vitality to do anything further. Ill explain my 
reasoning for this decision below.
I appreciate the detail Mr M has gone into when responding to this complaint. That I have not 
addressed each point he has made individually does not mean I havent considered 
everything he has said. However, my decision is a summary of my findings and Ive 
therefore concentrated on what I consider is central to the complaint.
Unfortunately for Mr M, we do not act in the capacity of a regulator. That means our 
decisions dont ordinarily interfere in how a business may conduct its operations or exercise 
what may be commercial judgment on the provision of a particular service. That remit falls to 
the FCA.
Instead, we provide dispute resolution, where we have a duty to make decisions based on 
what we think is fair and reasonable in all circumstances of the case. So, to decide if Vitality 
has been fair in operating the Vitality Plus scheme, I need to look at the terms applying to 
the scheme and determine if I consider it has operated within those terms.
When Vitality wrote to its members it noted that every year, we review the Vitality 
Programme to make sure were providing benefits that are motivational, accessible, clinically 
relevant and sustainable to as many of our members as possible and that we take into 
account the latest consumer trends.
The policy documentation from the time of the sale also makes clear that the Vitality Plus 
programme is subject to annual review. The policy terms issued to Mr M expressly 
confirmed:
E3. The Vitality commitment
We will keep the Vitality programme available for the duration of your plan. As this 
could be many years, we will revise both the Vitality programme and Vitality partners 
from time to time. Our Vitality programme naturally changes over time as new opportunities and technologies arise. It is also dependent on our relationship with third 
party providers and the range of services they offer. The rewards we offer are 
separate to your plan and have their own terms and conditions.
We may change the way we award points or eligible activities in the Vitality 
programme and the Vitality status you may achieve as a result. We may also change 
our Vitality partners from time to time and the incentives we offer. There may be 
instances where other aspects of the Vitality programme, such as particular benefits, 
may be significantly enhanced, changed or withdrawn. These changes may occur if 
our Vitality partners offer additional services or become unable to maintain their levels 
of service to us, or where we add new Vitality partners to the programme.
Vitality changes may also be required to prevent the fraudulent use of benefits. 
Revisions may be required as a result of other factors beyond our control. In most 
cases changes to Vitality will be made at plan anniversary, but in some circumstances 
the Vitality programme may change at any time. Other than changing a Vitality partner 
or offering revised rewards, we will consult an independent expert in health and 
wellbeing before we make any change. We will ask the expert to confirm that the 
changes we are proposing will maintain or improve:
the relationship between a members effort and their rewards, and
how accessible the Vitality programme is to members.
You will be able to request a copy of this expert opinion."
The policy literature issued to Mr M in 2012 gave a summary of the exact terms set out 
above. It also noted how:
We will usually tell you about any changes to the Vitality programme, including any 
price increases, at least six weeks before the changes take effect, unless were unable 
to do so due to factors outside our control. If youre not satisfied with the changes, you 
may cancel either Vitality or your PruProtect Business Protection Plan, please refer to 
your Business Protection Plan Provisions for more information.
I consider the above terms and the policy wording to be clear in setting out that the Vitality 
Plus scheme is an annually reviewable benefit. This is distinct from the life and critical illness 
provisions of the main policy, which are set throughout the policy term. There is no 
guarantee that any one benefit offered under the scheme will remain the same. 
Contrastingly, Vitality has explained that it may change the incentives it offers from time to 
time and it issued Mr M and all other scheme members sufficient notice of the change, as it 
commits to do within the policy literature.
Vitality was not required by the terms to consult an independent expert, because that only 
applies for changes that are not revised rewards  and the reduction to the cinema ticket 
benefit was a downward revision.
In its final response to the complaint, Vitality has given Mr M a clear explanation as to why it 
made a commercial decision to revisit the provisions of the scheme, reducing one benefit 
and introducing another  and it was entitled within the terms to do so. Whilst I understand 
this was a change Mr M was dissatisfied with, I do not agree that it was discriminatory. I 
have seen no objective evidence that it places any particular protected group at a disadvantage through the reduction in numbers of permitted cinema tickets per month when 
compared to the provision of a digital streaming service. It follows that I do not find it to have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way, because Vitalitys policy terms allowed for it to 
make a change of this nature.
That Mr M may no longer have the same use of the scheme (and therefore have made an 
annual cinema ticket purchase) is a matter for his consideration. I do not find Vitality to be 
liable for that. He remains free to leave the Vitality Plus scheme if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman