DRN-3357749
The complaint
Mr H complains that Trading 212 UK Limited executed orders that hed cancelled. He 
couldnt successfully contact Trading 212 for help and, when he eventually made contact, he 
says he received no assistance and unsatisfactory answers. He says around £800 was 
wrongly deducted from his deposit account which he wants refunded. And he wants 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and his legal fees reimbursed.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by a solicitor. For ease, I will refer to everything 
theyve told us as if it was said by Mr H.
What happened
Our investigator set out a detailed timescale of what happened here. As neither party has 
disputed that timeline, I wont repeat it here. In brief summary, Mr H says he wanted to buy 
30 shares in a company Ill refer to as G. But, when the order didnt seem to have 
executed, he says he cancelled it and placed another order to buy 30 shares. This order 
didnt seem to execute either, so he says he cancelled it. He then placed an order to buy 20 
shares as, by this time, the price had risen.
Shortly afterwards he realised all three orders had been executed. He says he couldnt 
afford to pay for all the shares so, when he received no assistance from Trading 212, he 
decided to mitigate his losses by trying, unsuccessfully, to sell 60 shares. Around a week 
later, he credited his share dealing account with 1,500 euros, but 931.55 euros was 
immediately deducted.
Trading 212 said Mr H had chosen to place multiple orders in a company whose price was 
extremely volatile. He was left having bought shares which he couldnt pay for. Its system 
automatically tried to sell the shares, which is why Mr H was unsuccessful when he tried to 
sell them.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr H 
should reasonably have known that his orders hadnt been cancelled, that Trading 212 
hadnt acted unfairly in accepting the orders; and that it hadnt acted unfairly in selling the 
shares to restore his account to a positive balance.
Mr H said he didnt think Trading 212 had acted in his best interests. He said that:
Hed left the order to purchase 20 shares open because he thought the first two orders 
had been cancelled.
Trading 212 didnt allow him to sell shares to mitigate his loss.
Trading 212 did nothing to help him.
Our investigator asked Trading 212 to provide some more information and he was then able 
to provide a detailed timeline of what had happened. He said that Mr H hadnt been able to 
sell his shares because Trading 212 was already attempting to sell them. And that, because 
the market moved so quickly, by the time the order was filled the proceeds werent enough 
to clear the negative balance. So when Mr H introduced some funds, Trading 212 deducted 
the amount outstanding from the amount hed deposited.
Mr H asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going 
to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. And, as noted earlier, our investigator set out a detailed timeline which neither 
party has disputed, so I wont repeat it again here.
Having carefully considered everything, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
Mr H placed three orders to purchase G shares. I find he didnt successfully cancel any of 
these orders. This may be because he didnt intend to cancel the orders. Or, most likely, that 
the market conditions at the time didnt allow him to cancel them.
Trading 212s terms and conditions say: 
Market conditions can cause temporary delays to the execution of Orders. It is your 
obligation to make sure that any earlier pending Order(s) is/are cancelled before 
placing a new Order in the same Investment. We do not accept any liability for any 
actual or potential loss you may suffer if this occurs. (10.15)
The price of G shares was extremely volatile when Mr H placed his orders. This is why they 
didnt execute immediately. And it seems this is also why he wasnt successful in cancelling 
them. In the circumstances, I find Trading 212 acted in line with its terms and conditions and 
that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in accepting and executing his orders.
Mr H says Trading 212 shouldnt have accepted all three orders because he didnt have 
enough money in his account to pay for them. Trading 212s terms and conditions cover this 
situation. They say:
By placing an Order for the purchase of Investments, you agree that you will have 
sufficient funds in your Account on the date when you are required to make the 
payment to settle the trade. We may accept the Order even if there are not sufficient 
funds at the point of placing the trade. (10.2)
And,
You can place an Order as long as the value of the Order does not exceed 95% of 
the available funds in your account. Regardless of this, you can still end up with a 
negative balance on your Account in cases of sudden market volatility, where the 
price would drastically change between the time of giving the order and its execution. Should such a change occur, and your obligation to settle exceeds your available 
funds, you will remain liable to settle the Deal in full. (10.14)
There was volatility in the market and the price of G shares was changing very quickly. As 
our investigator set out in his timeline, the first trade hadnt executed by the time Mr H had 
placed the second and third trades. So Trading 212s systems didnt immediately recognise 
that Mr H didnt have enough money in his account to settle all of the trades. But I dont find 
that means he isnt responsible for paying for the shares that were purchased. I say this 
because I think he should reasonably have known that his purchase orders hadnt been 
cancelled.
Trading 212s terms arent clear what action it will take if there isnt enough money in an 
account to fulfil purchase orders. But I dont think it acted unreasonably in trying to sell 
enough G shares to pay for the remaining shares Mr H had purchased. This, not 
unreasonably, meant Mr Hs own attempted sale order wasnt accepted. Whilst Trading 212 
didnt contact Mr H to see if he had other means to pay for the shares, hed tried to sell the 
shares himself to mitigate his loss. So I think Trading 212s decision to sell G shares 
mirrored what Mr H would have chosen to do himself if Trading 212s systems had allowed 
him to do so.
I accept this situation was worrying for Mr H. He told us he hadnt meant to purchase more 
than 30 shares and he was worried, when he couldnt sell the shares, about how he would 
pay for them. And I think Trading 212s service could have been better in helping Mr H 
understand what had happened and why it needed to take the action it did. But I dont think 
Mr H would be in a different position if Trading 212 had provided better service. Thats 
because Ive not found it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it executed Mr Hs instructions 
to buy the shares; and because Mr H intended to sell some of the shares to pay for the 
others, which is what Trading 212 also tried to do on his behalf.
As already noted, the price of G shares was extremely volatile, and the market moved more 
quickly than Trading 212s systems could react. But I dont find Trading 212 is responsible 
for Mr Hs loss  it acted reasonably in unprecedented circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman