DRN-2196642
The complaint
Mr S complains about the interest rate charged on his mortgage with Mortgage Express.
What happened
Mr S took out his interest only mortgage with another provider, which transferred the 
mortgage to Mortgage Express shortly afterwards. In 2009, Mr Ss initial fixed interest rate 
expired and his mortgage reverted to MEs standard variable rate (SVR). As, by then, ME no 
longer offered new interest rates, it remained on the SVR from then on, until Mr S sold the 
property and repaid the mortgage.
Mr S complained that ME kept him on the SVR, which he considered meant he had paid too 
high an interest rate. Had the interest rate been lower, it might have been possible for him to 
convert to a repayment mortgage.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr S asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss mortgage was transferred to Mortgage Express, which was at the time a mortgage 
lender operating in the market. Unfortunately, shortly after the transfer the financial crash 
happened  and one of the consequences of that was that Mortgage Expresss business 
was no longer sustainable. It was nationalised and placed into government ownership 
alongside several other mortgage lenders.
There are complex rules applying to government-owned businesses, which prevent them 
from having an unfair competitive advantage over businesses operating in the private sector. 
Therefore Mortgage Express, like the other nationalised lenders, wasnt able to offer its 
customers new preferential interest rates. Once a customer had revered to the SVR, they 
would remain on the SVR.
Thats what happened to Mr Ss mortgage. Once he reverted to the SVR in 2009, his 
mortgage stayed on the SVR. No new rates were available to him. While I can understand 
how frustrating that would have been  and that Mr S would have paid less had he had 
access to a new rate  he was in the same position as all MEs other customers.
Once Mr S reverted to the SVR, there was no barrier to him moving his mortgage to another 
lender  at least, not one that ME put in his way. There was no early repayment charge, for 
example. It seems Mr Ss own circumstances changed following the crash and that wasnt 
possible for him  but I cant fairly say he was trapped because of anything ME did.
Generally speaking, I would expect ME to help a borrower in Mr Ss situation, apparently 
trapped on a higher interest rate than he might be able to get with another lender, to assist 
him in exploring his options  by, for example, arranging for him to receive free regulated 
mortgage advice. But as Mr S has paid off his mortgage, that doesnt arise in this case. 
There was nothing in the rules of mortgage regulation, or in the terms of Mr Ss mortgage 
contract, that obliged ME to offer him a new rate. Ive explained why that was. Mr S has 
suggested that lenders like ME should be compelled by regulation to offer a rate that reflects 
the average charged across the industry  but that would require a change in regulation that 
is beyond my powers. 
All I can do is consider whether ME treated Mr S fairly, based on the terms of his mortgage, 
the rules as they were at the time and wider industry practice  as well as what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable. Taking into account MEs position, and noting that all its customers 
(and those of other nationalised lenders) were treated in the same way as Mr S, I dont think 
I can safely say that he was treated unfairly. And so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman