DRN-3300214
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way that Wescot Credit Services Limited has managed a debt in 
his name. Mr B says that poor handling of the situation has impacted on his health.
What happened
Wescot has been managing the collection of a debt in Mr Bs name since 2013. The debt 
was originally owed to a business I will refer to as N. In July 2019, N sold the debt to a 
business I will refer to as C. Wescot continued to manage the debt after C became the new 
owner.
Mr B had been making regular monthly payments of £1 so was unhappy when in around 
August 2021, Wescot told him that he wasnt paying the debt as agreed. After Mr B checked 
his bank statements, he saw the payments had left his account but had then been returned.
Wescot sent Mr B a statement detailing the payments that C had received. Mr B pointed out 
that the account number hed been using to make his payments was different to the one on 
the statement. 
In its final response, Wescot explained to Mr B that in the past, payments had sometimes 
been delayed because he was paying N. Wescot confirmed that the last payment C had 
received was in July 2021. 
Wescot apologised for not initially setting up Mr Bs complaint and offered to pay him £50.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. He acknowledged the 
frustration Mr B felt but explained that payments had sometimes been delayed as Mr B paid 
them to N rather than Wescot. The investigator didnt think Wescot was at fault when at 
some point N stopped forwarding Mr Bs monthly payments after C bought the debt. The 
investigator thought that Wescots offer of £50 was reasonable. 
Mr B is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He says that he offered to change 
his payments directly to Wescot so hes now been making payments direct for several 
months. 
Mr B is frustrated with the fact that his account has been passed to several businesses for 
collection. And hes unhappy that hes expected to raise individual complaints. Mr B would 
like this service to do more to help prevent financial businesses treating him and other 
customers in the same way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im only considering the actions of Wescot and not N or C. I 
should also say that this service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we 
cover  thats the role of the regulator. This means that although I understand Mr Bs 
frustration with the way his account has been handled, my decision is limited to whether 
Wescot treated Mr B unfairly and if so, whether its already done or offered enough to put 
things right.
Although it mustve been upsetting for Mr B to be told that hed not made some payments 
when he thought hed been making them, I dont consider this was due to a mistake on 
Wescots part. 
Wescot has given this service evidence that in October 2019 it wrote to Mr B asking him to 
make payments to Wescot to ensure there werent any delays in the future. I dont know 
whether Mr B recalls this letter but as he continued to pay N direct, I cant find that Wescot 
was wrong to contact him again when the payments appeared to have stopped. 
It seems likely that at some point after N sold the debt to C, N stopped forwarding Mr Bs 
payments to either C or Wescot. I cant find that this was due to a mistake on Wescots part. 
Im satisfied that Wescot tried to help Mr B resolve the problem by contacting C for further 
information and offering to provide evidence to C of the payments Mr B said hed been 
making. 
As the investigator has told Mr B, it would be for him to contact the other parties to raise a 
complaint if he chooses. 
After Mr B contacted Wescot it was able to help him correctly direct his payments, so the 
problem seems to have been resolved. Wescot agreed that it shouldve raised Mr Bs 
complaint earlier than it did and has offered to pay him £50 to apologise. 
Overall, I consider this to be a fair way to resolve Mr Bs complaint. Particularly as after Mr B 
made Wescot aware of his personal circumstances, it placed his account with its internal 
customer support unit. So, I cant say that Wescot failed to treat Mr B sympathetically. 
I do understand that Mr Bs primary aim when bringing his complaint is to highlight the 
problems that can arise when debts are sold but for all the reasons Ive outlined above, that 
isnt something that my decision can address. Im sorry that this is likely to disappoint Mr B.
My final decision
My decision is that if it hasnt done so already, Wescot Credit Services Limited should pay 
Mr B £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman