DRN-4037247
The complaint
Mr B complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) poor service following a claim under 
his home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B found a leak from his roof. He contacted IPA and made a claim. It initially sent an 
engineer, whom Mr B said looked unprofessional, didnt have the correct equipment apart 
from a ladder. And ultimately carried out a cursory inspection of the leak. Mr B said that the 
engineer also looked at a wall in the kitchen, that had water marks on it. He told Mr B that it 
could be damp, but he would contact his office and they would get back to him. 
Mr B said that he had to call IPA to chase the next day. Mr B made a complaint when IPA 
told him that the engineer had found that there was damp and that he carried out a salt test 
to detect minerals, which was positive. Mr B said that the engineer did not carry out a salt 
test, looked unprofessional, had no equipment apart from a ladder and had no safety 
equipment. He also said that when he called the engineers office, there was in the 
background children being heard, which again he felt was unprofessional. 
IPA intended to re-send the same engineer, but Mr B refused this. As a result, IPA gave Mr 
B the authority to find an independent engineer. IPA told Mr B that the engineer needed to 
be VAT registered. Mr B attempted to locate a VAT registered engineer but couldnt. So, he 
contacted IPA again as the leak he said, was becoming worse. Mr B explained that he had 
to contact IPA and complain, as he was able to find a non-VAT registered engineer very 
quickly but attempting to find a VAT registered one, meant there was a delay. Mr B said that 
the delay meant the leak caused further damage to his home. 
Ultimately IPA told Mr B that there wasnt a requirement for a VAT registered engineer, but 
that he had to obtain a report, as well as an invoice on headed paper.  Mr B obtained an 
engineer and paid £720 for the roof to be repaired. IPA paid £120 towards the cost of the 
temporary repair of the roof. It said it wouldnt make a further contribution towards the roof 
repairs. So, Mr B raised a further complaint to IPA as he said the delay caused further 
damage to his roof and for the misinformation that he was given.
In its final response, IPA maintained its position. It said that the weather reports didnt show 
continuous rain over the period. And the only rain that was noted was a few light showers 
with two days of heavy rain, but not over an extended period. It also said that there was 
waterproof felt under the tiles, that would have protected the area. So, it wouldnt make an 
additional contribution to the repairs. 
Mr B was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that she 
wasnt persuaded that the repairs that Mr B was asking IPA to pay for, were caused (made 
worse) by the delay. She accepted that there had been some misinformation given to Mr B 
regarding the engineer, but she didnt think the delay caused any significant damage to Mr 
Bs home. Nor was there any evidence to support this.
IPA accepted the view, Mr B did not. He said that there had been around six days from when 
he initially reported the leak until IPA gave him the authority to finally get his own engineer. 
He said that he was told by his engineer that the damage could have been mitigated if it had 
been seen too much earlier than it was. And it was because of this, he felt that IPA ought to 
contribute or pay for the repairs. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr B, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered both partys comments as well as the policy terms and conditions. Mr B 
said that he believed IPA ought to either contribute or reimburse the costs he paid for the 
repairs to the roof to be completed, which were £720. He said that he incurred this cost due 
to the misinformation that IPA gave him and because there was a delay which caused 
further damage to his property.  So, Ive concentrated my findings on these issues.  
IPA accepts that Mr B was given the incorrect information with regard to whether he had to 
find a VAT registered engineer. I can see that this caused Mr B to have to chase for updates 
with regards to this, until the correct information was provided to him. So, Im satisfied that 
IPA did give Mr B the incorrect information. So, Ive next considered the impact of this. 
I have looked at a brief timeline of events. And from it, I can see that there were three days 
from when IPA gave Mr B the incorrect information, until it gave him the correct information.
I have also reviewed the weather reports (as this is the best evidence that we can rely upon) 
and over the three days, the weather showed that there were some light showers. Because 
of this, Im not satisfied that the weather was so significant to have caused substantial 
damage to Mr Bs property. 
I have also considered the weather reports for the extended period of time of around six 
days, but again the weather showed light showers and two days of heavier showers. But in 
the absence of any expert evidence from Mr B, that supports his contention, I think its more 
likely than not, that the weather didnt cause significant damage to Mr Bs property. 
In addition, although I accept that Mr B said that he was told by his engineer that the 
damage couldve been mitigated had it been repaired sooner, Ive not been provided with 
any expert evidence to support this. 
IPA said that there was felt under the roof tiles. And this felt was waterproof which wouldve 
provided cover and protection of the area. So, Im satisfied that this would also mean no 
substantial damage was caused to the area. And Im not persuaded that further damage 
wouldve been caused as a direct result of the three days delay. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions. One of the obligations under the policy, was 
for IPA to send an engineer to carry out the work necessary to resolve the emergency. I 
havent seen that IPA did this. But it did pay Mr B £120 towards the cost of the temporary 
repair of the roof. Which, in the circumstances is reasonable. Overall, Im satisfied that IPA accepted that it gave Mr B incorrect information. But Im not 
satisfied that the delay that Mr B said was the fault of IPA, caused significant damage to his 
property. And I think its fair and reasonable for IPA to have contributed £120 towards the 
cost of the temporary repair of the roof. Accordingly, I cant fairly ask IPA to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman