DRN-2385696
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-informed him when they sold his term 
assurance policy. He says he was incorrectly told his status as a smoker could be changed 
after 12 months of the cover being in place. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In 2011 Mr C was sold a level term assurance policy by Barclays, with cover commencing in 
February 2012. As part of the application process, Mr C was asked:
Have you used any cigarettes, cigars, pipes, or nicotine replacement products in the 
last twelve months  this includes occasional use?
Mr answered yes to this question. The policy was set up with smoker rates applied and it 
provided a sum assured of £200,000 over an 11-year term for premiums of about £120 per 
month.
Mr C contacted the insurer in 2019 as he was unhappy he was still paying the smokers 
premium. The insurer explained they couldnt change Mr C as being a non-smoker on this 
policy and that, for non-smoker rates, an application for a new policy would be required. 
Mr C complained to Barclays about this as he says when the policy was sold he was told 
that his smoking status could be changed after cover had been in place for 12 months.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. They explained the policy was sold on a non-advised 
basis and that the insurer sent policy documentation confirming the cover and which also 
included a list of things that could be changed once the policy commenced. This however 
didnt mention changing smoker status. They also ask their customers to read the 
documents to ensure it meets their needs and if doesnt, or if any of the details are incorrect 
and require amending, then theyre referred to the insurer.
The complaint was referred to our service but our investigator didnt think Barclays had to do 
anything further. He said he couldnt comment on what might have been discussed when the 
policy was sold as there isnt any record of this. But the policy terms, which explain what 
changes can be made, doesnt mention smoking status. And so, in the absence of anything 
evidencing Mr C was told his smoking status could be changed, he didnt think he could 
conclude that Barclays had mis-advised him when selling the policy. 
Mr C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr C is unhappy that his smoking status cant be changed on the policy as 
the cost of cover would be cheaper for a non-smoker. But, while I know this isnt the 
outcome hell be hoping for, I dont think I can fairly conclude that he was mis-informed by 
Barclays that his smoking status could be changed after cover had commenced. Ill explain 
why.
As our investigator explained, unfortunately there isnt a record of what was discussed when 
the policy was sold. And so, I cant sure what was explained to Mr C about how the policy 
worked. Ive therefore looked at the documentary evidence available. Having done so, I 
havent seen anything that says the life assured can change their smoking status after cover 
has commenced. Instead, the policy terms say:
CAN I MAKE CHANGES TO THE PLAN ONCE ITS STARTED?
You can request the following changes to be made to your plan:
Increasing or decreasing the term of the plan.
Changing the sum assured.
Removing a life assured.
Changing the frequency of your premium payments (annually to monthly or 
monthly to annually). 
The above doesnt make any reference to the option of changing smoking status. And I think 
its reasonable to have expected Mr C to have read the policy documentation and if it didnt 
provide what he was led to believe, then he couldve questioned this at the time. I havent 
seen anything to show this happened. 
Ive taken what Mr C has said into account but, in the absence of anything other than his 
testimony, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Barclays misinformed him. It follows that I 
dont think Barclays has to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman