DRN-2562661
The complaint
Mrs S complains, though a claims management company (CMC), that Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited mis-sold her six endowment savings plans.
What happened
Mrs S was sold six endowment savings plans by Royal London between 1992 and 1995. 
These were set up as follows:
15 year with-profits endowment policy with a single premium of around £1,000 and a 
guaranteed sum assured of £1,648 set up in 1992.
15 year with-profits endowment policy with regular premiums of around £27 per 
month and a guaranteed sum assured of £3,500 set up in 1992.
10 year with-profits endowment policy with regular premiums of £20 every four weeks 
and a guaranteed sum assured of £2,160 set up in 1993.
15 year with-profits endowment policy with a single premium of around £1,000 and a 
guaranteed sum assured of £1,628 set up in 1993 in trust for Mrs Ss son.
20 year with-profits endowment policy (with five-yearly bonuses) with regular 
premiums of £12 every four weeks and a guaranteed sum assured of £2,016 set up 
in 1994.
20 year with-profits endowment policy (with five-yearly bonuses) with regular 
premiums of £16 every four weeks and a guaranteed sum assured of £2,688 set up 
in 1995.
All of these policies have now matured. Neither Mrs S or Royal London could give us the 
maturity values for all the policies but we know that three policies all matured with higher 
values than the guaranteed sum assured.
Mrs S complained recently about these policies. Her CMC explained that she didnt need life 
cover, that her attitude to risk wasnt discussed and she only wanted savings. The CMC felt 
alternatives werent discussed.
Our investigator considered this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She went into 
detail as to why each policy was suitable for Mrs S. To summarise, she felt Mrs Ss 
objectives to achieve a return on her money whilst having a low attitude to risk was met by 
this advice. She explained that in some of the cases Mrs S had received more back than an 
average savings account at the time and there was nothing to suggest these policies posed 
any more risk to her underlying capital than she was willing to take as many had a 
guaranteed sum assured of more than she had invested. The investigator also highlighted 
that having the life cover attached to these policies wasnt unsuitable for Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time and may have presented Mrs S with tax benefits.
Mrs Ss CMC disagreed with our investigator. It felt that Royal London shouldnt have sold 
six similar policies close together as this represented a lack of diversification. Our 
investigator addressed this concern but Mrs S said she wanted an ombudsman to reach a 
decision. Her CMC explained that there was a risk associated with Mrs S investing just with 
Royal London and this represented poor advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for similar reasons. I 
dont think the advice Royal London gave Mrs S between 1992 and 1995 was unsuitable. Ill 
explain why.
Although a long time has passed since Mrs S took these policies out, we do have some 
documents from the point of sale. I can see that Mrs S was looking to generate a return from 
her savings whilst taking little risk. I can also see Mrs S was employed, married and had two 
children.
At the time this advice was given, Id expect Royal London to have taken Mrs Ss 
circumstances into account and recommend a policy suitable for her circumstances. I think it 
did this. The policies Mrs S were sold all had a guaranteed sum assured, this meant Mrs S 
knew the minimum amount her policies would pay out at the time. And I can see that she 
was also made aware of how much money she was investing. They were also all invested in 
with-profits funds. This meant that her investment had the ability to earn bonuses over the 
years and, depending on the economic climate and fund performance, a final bonus. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that for Mrs S, these policies presented a risk higher than she was 
willing to take at the time.
Mrs S does appear to have some existing life cover but has explained this would cover her if 
she was to be diagnosed with cancer. So, I dont think this existing cover made it unsuitable 
for Mrs S to take out plans which had life cover attached. Mrs S had dependents at the time 
and so if she had passed away at any point during the term of these policies, the full sum 
assured wouldve been paid out to the estate or beneficiaries. The addition of the life cover 
doesnt make these policies inherently unsuitable for Mrs S and her circumstances at the 
time.
Ive taken note of Mrs Ss CMCs point that all the policies were sold in a short time frame, 
and all by Royal London. It is evident that Mrs S took all of these policies over three years, 
but it was clear these policies had different terms and likely different uses. I can see one was 
to build up a lump sum for retirement, and the term coincided with Mrs S being 59 years old. 
Ive also seen that one was taken and placed into trust for her son to coincide with his 21st 
birthday  providing him with a lump sum. Its important to note also that some policies had 
regular premiums and some single premiums. I think this reflects the situation Mrs S was in 
at the time and shows she had different objectives for each policy. There was nothing to 
suggest that Mrs S couldnt afford the premiums, or that she wouldve needed access to her 
capital within the term. So, I dont think the sale of the six policies within three years makes 
them unsuitable in this case.
Mrs Ss CMC says that the lack of diversification made this investment unsuitable  that is 
that Mrs S had invested in the same plans and all with Royal London. But Ive seen that the 
funds attached to the plans differed. And the very nature of with-profits funds are that 
investors money is pooled together and invested in a range of assets to ensure there is 
diversification and a spread of the risk. So, I dont think the fact that all of Mrs Ss policies 
with Royal London were invested in with-profits funds means there was too little 
diversification for her. And I dont think this means the sale was unsuitable.To summarise, Mrs Ss circumstances and objectives at the time have been taken into 
account when Royal London recommended these policies. And Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that these were unsuitable for her at the time they were sold. Mrs S was looking for 
a savings plan and I think these policies provided this as well as providing a level of life 
cover. This not only meant Mrs Ss family were protected during the term of these policies, 
but also presented her with possible tax benefits. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mrs S 
required the money she invested over the term, or that cost of life cover attached to these 
policies made them inherently unsuitable for her in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman