DRN-2696842
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy to cover a mortgage in 1995. Mr and Mrs G paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Gs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago, so understandably neither side still have all the 
original documents or information from the time. Ive thought carefully about whats most 
likely to have happened based on the information I do have.
From what Ive seen of Santanders sales process at the time, in order to get this policy 
Mr and Mrs G would need to have specifically applied for it, separately to applying for the 
mortgage itself  this was a standalone policy. They would need to have chosen what type of 
cover they wanted and signed for the PPI. And Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Santanders sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that Mr and Mrs G were 
misled here. So I think its most likely that Santander made Mr and Mrs G aware they had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it  though I can understand if they 
no longer recall doing so after so long. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr and Mrs G were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. They didnt have any other cover aside from the very limited 
statutory benefits, and the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those benefits and offered them 
much more comprehensive protection. And if Mr and Mrs G had fallen behind on their 
mortgage they couldve lost their home. So the PPI could have really been useful for them in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs G about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs G werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs G 
could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was 
likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman