DRN-3315948
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc has been unable to trace the money from a 
re-discovered passbook account.
What happened
Mr M says he had two accounts with a business I will call A that Santander took over. He 
says the savings account was closed in May 2008 by him, but he also had another account 
for which he re-discovered the passbook for in 2020. Mr M says he hasnt received the 
money from that account and believes he is the victim of an internal fraud. He says he was 
told his wife Mrs M had been added to the account when he knows that wasnt the case. Mr 
M says he didnt receive any contact from Santander about the account and questions why 
he wasnt sent account statements. He would like the money refunded which he believes to 
be over £10,000 and says his wifes name was added fraudulently. Mr M says Santander 
had breached the Banking Code by not protecting his interests.
Santander says it has tried to trace the money but has limited information due to the 
passage of time. It says the original account was closed and the money transferred to a 
savings account before being transferred to a different savings account in joint names. 
Santander says there was a nil balance in that account in May 2006 which closed in August 
2013. It says it is not obliged to hold records for more than six years and the presence of a 
passbook doesnt mean the money hasnt been withdrawn. It also says Mr M closed his 
other account in 2008 and it would have sent him a cheque for the balance before the nil 
balance in 2006. Santander also says Mr M closed a different account in 2006.
Mr and Mrs M dont accept that view and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint and explained that a re-discovered passbook didnt mean that 
money hadnt been withdrawn from the account. The investigator didnt think there evidence 
of fraud and thought Santander had tried to trace the account movements and money. 
Mr and Mrs M dont accept that view and maintain they have been the victims of fraud. They 
dont accept that Santander has provided us with all of the information they have and would 
like the money refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate how 
strongly they feel about this complaint.
A re-discovered passbook doesnt automatically mean that an account is still open or is 
dormant and that the money in the account hasnt been withdrawn. I am sure Mr and Mrs M 
appreciate that banks and building societies would allow accounts to be closed or money to 
be withdrawn without a passbook being present. I also make clear that Santander is not 
obliged to keep records for more than six years and I cant fairly hold it responsible for not 
being able to provide documents from as far back as the 1990s when Mr M says the 
account in question was opened.
Im satisfied that Santander has provided some evidence relating to the original account and 
where the money went. I can see that the original account closed, and the money eventually 
ended up in a savings account. I can also see that the account had a zero balance in 2006 
which I think on balance suggests the money had been withdrawn by that stage. I appreciate 
those events are over 15 years ago but think it likely on balance that it was Mr M that 
withdrew the money. I say that as I have not seen any evidence of Mr and Mrs M being a 
victim of fraud and can see that Mr M closed his other Santander account in 2008. I would 
have expected Mr M to have remembered at the time, in 2008, when he closed the account 
that he also had another account or in 2006 when a different account was closed.
I also appreciate that Mr M says his wife Mrs M was fraudulently added to the account. I 
have made clear that I have not seen any evidence of fraud and cant see what benefit there 
would be to a potential fraudster in adding another name to the account. In the absence of 
records, I cant look at the account opening forms but dont think it has any real significance 
in any event.
I have not seen any evidence that Santander has not acted in Mr and Mrs Ms best interests 
and cant be sure what correspondence was sent to them over the years. I have no reason 
to doubt that Santander has provided all of the information relevant to the complaint to us.
Overall, I think it more likely that the money in the account which was Mr and Mrs Ms 
account was withdrawn over 15 years ago and has due to the passage of time been 
forgotten about. I accept it unlikely that Mr M has bank statements from other accounts that 
would provide evidence that a cheque for the account balance was or was not paid into 
them. And I have made clear that I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for the lack of 
documents and records here. But based on what I have seen, I dont think that a mistake or 
fraud hast been committed by Santander. 
I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman