DRN-3605314
The complaint
Miss D complains that a car she acquired via a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2021 Miss D acquired a used car via a five-year conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The car was just under six years old and had a mileage of 42,120 It was 
supplied with a six-month warranty.
One week after taking the car Miss D complained to the supplying dealership that the 
engine management light had illuminated. She was advised to take the car to a garage 
where it could be inspected under the warranty. Miss D says she followed this advice and 
the garage informed Miss D that there had been an issue with a sensor, but no repair was 
required.
In June 2021 Miss D attempted to use the air conditioning system for the first time but 
found that it didnt work. The car was booked in for repairs which cost a total of £378.01 
but the warranty only covered £168.01 of the cost leaving Miss D to cover the additional 
£210 herself.
Around this time Miss D also experienced issues with the cars windscreen wipers and 
with a tyre which she then replaced. Neither of these items were covered by the warranty.
Due to the car misfiring, Miss D arranged for the car to have a diagnostic carried out in 
July 2021. This diagnostic recorded fault codes found with the knock control cylinders 1 
to 4. Miss D says this diagnostic report was provided to the supplying dealer.
In August 2021 the car developed further faults and the misfiring became worse and 
the dashboard lights would not turn off leading to a drain on the battery. Miss D says 
she was advised not to use the car by a third-party garage that she took the car to.
Miss D complained to Moneybarn about the condition of the car. As Moneybarn wasnt 
able to conclude its investigation into her complaint within eight weeks it informed her 
of her rights to raise a complaint with this service. Miss D therefore complained to us in 
September 2021.
In November 2021 Moneybarn arranged for the car to be independently inspected. 
Unfortunately, due to the discharged state of the cars battery the engineers 
investigation was limited. The engineer said that they couldnt confirm the exact cause 
of the faults with the car but considered that they would have most likely occurred due 
to an electrical fault and which had arisen after the car had been supplied.
Moneybarn agreed for a new battery to be fitted to the car and, once this had been carried 
out, arranged for the car to be independently inspected for a second time. This second 
inspection was carried out in January 2022.The independent engineer reported that they 
had found fault codes with the super knock detection for cylinders 1 to 4 and that there 
was an excessive bearing rattle type noise evident. The engineer concluded that the 
vehicle was suffering from auxiliary area noise, possible bearing collapse which will 
require further investigation under workshop conditions due to limited visibility and also 
multiple electronic engine codes being detected in relation to internal engine issues which 
will also require further investigation.
The engineer also stated that Due to the mileage covered by the vehicle of approximately 
6000 miles over a period of 6 months since the point of purchase at the first recorded 
failure a total time of approximately 11 months since purchase to the time of inspection 
the vehicles faults would not have been developing at the point of purchase and have 
developed in the time of ownership
Our investigator recommended that Miss Ds complaint should be partially upheld. He 
said there wasnt sufficient evidence that the current fault/s with the car had been present 
or developing at the point of supply and he thought unlikely she would have been able to 
drive nearly 4,000 miles in the car if they had.
Our investigator said he also thought that the repairs required to the windscreen wipers 
and tyres had arisen from wear and tear that would be expected of a car of this age and 
mileage.
However, our investigator thought that it had been unfair Miss D had to pay part of the 
costs in fixing the air conditioning as he accepted this fault was only discovered when 
Miss D attempted to use it for the first time in June 2021. He said he thought likely this 
fault had been present at the point of supply so it would be fair for Miss D to be 
reimbursed the additional amount she had paid for the repairs carried out in June 2021. 
Our investigator also said that £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by dealing with the faulty car at that time would be fair.
Moneybarn agreed with our investigators view. Miss D disagreed. She said the car had 
been deteriorating since shed acquired it and she didnt accept the independents 
engineers reports.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
the following provisional decision.
When looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I awas not bound by them when I consider what was fair and reasonable.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Miss D was a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn was also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and was responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are supplied 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here the car was just under six years old and had a mileage of 42,120 at the point of the agreements inception. So, some issues of maintenance and repair would be expected 
by a reasonable person over a reasonable period of time. The car wouldnt have been 
expected to be fault free unlike a new one.
Looking at the issues and repairs that have been carried out with the car, Id seen that 
within one week of acquiring the car the engine management light had illuminated 
although this subsequently didnt appear to have required a repair. However, in June 
2021, around four months after acquiring the car, Miss D discovered that the air 
conditioning didnt work. As this was the first time she had tried this function, then I 
thought it was more likely than not that this fault had been present or developing at the 
point of supply. So, I agreed with our investigator that it  was unfair for Miss D to have to 
pay the shortfall of £210 that had arisen when the warranty would only cover repairs up to 
£168.01. Looking at the repair invoice, I couldnt see that there had been additional work 
other than fixing the air conditioning which had been charged for.
Miss D said that she hadnt used the car since the beginning of August 2021 due to the 
faults that had developed with the car, in particular the issues with the engine misfiring 
and the battery being drained because the dashboard lights had remained on. By 
August 2021, Miss D had driven around 4,000 miles.
Miss D saod the issue with the car misfiring had been present for several weeks. Ive seen 
the results of the diagnostic that was carried out in July 2021 which identified fault codes 
relating to the knock control cylinders. These fault codes appeared to be the same as 
those noted by the independent engineer in January 2022. Id seen that Miss D said that 
the earlier diagnostic report had been provided to the supplying dealer, but it appeared no 
further investigation or repair work was undertaken.
From the evidence that had been provided I was unclear as to the exact faults with the car 
or their cause since both independent engineers carried out rather limited inspections. 
There were no test drives and the recommendation at the end of the second inspection 
was for further investigations for internal engine issues. However, it appeared more likely 
than not from the evidence that Id seen, that the fault causing the car to misfire had been 
present at least from July 2021 and probably earlier.
Although the nature of the actual faults with the car were unknown, I was satisfied that the 
car was faulty and that it had been undrivable since August 2021. Due to the lack of 
evidence I didnt think I could reasonably conclude the faults were either present or 
developing at the point of supply so I considered the question of whether the car had been 
as durable as would have been reasonably expected. And I didnt think a reasonable 
person would have expected a car of this age and mileage to have developed the number 
of issues that it had with its engine and electrical systems after only four months and 4,000 
miles. Neither of the independent engineers had expressed any view as to the durability of 
the car nor did the second engineer comment on the same fault codes having been 
present for six months at the point of their inspection. I didnt think the independent 
engineer reports adequately addressed how long the car had been faulty for nor the 
nature of those faults.
Id also noted that there was no suggestion by either of the independent engineers that 
the issues with the car were due to any actions of Miss D.
So, I wasnt persuaded by the second independent report that these faults had developed 
after six months from the agreements inception nor that Moneybarn wasnt liable for the 
faults with the car. Taking into account the evidence that had been provided, I thought it 
was reasonable to say the car wasnt as durable as would be reasonably expected and I 
didnt think it was of satisfactory condition.However, in regard to replacing the windscreen wipers and tyre, as these are serviceable 
items, I thought it wouldnt be unusual for a car that was four years old to require 
maintenance and repair for these particular parts. I wouldnt be asking Moneybarn to 
reimburse Miss D for the costs of these replacements.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 theres usually a right of repair for the retailer, 
however here Miss D had been unable to use the car since August 2021 and had lost 
confidence in it. As the actual fault/s with the car and the extent of the needed repairs 
were unknown, I thought, in these circumstances, that it would be fair for Miss D to return 
the car and for the agreement to be cancelled.
Miss D had been unable to use the car since August 2021 and I understood the car had 
been SORN. Prior to this, Miss D had been able to use the car and drove around 4,000 
miles, and I thought it would be fair that she paid for that use. So, I wouldnt be asking 
Moneybarn to reimburse all the payments she had made under the agreement. However, I 
thought it would be fair for Moneybarn to reimburse her any monthly payments she had 
paid for using the car from August 2021 onwards under the agreement.
I also thought that Miss D had suffered inconvenience and distress dealing with the 
faulty car. I thought compensation of £250 would be fair taking into account the impact 
this has had on her.
For the reasons given above I intended to uphold Miss Ds complaint and I asked 
Moneybarn to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss D.
Cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Miss D any payments made under the agreement from August 
2021 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Miss D £210 being the cost she was required to make in respect 
of the repairs to the air conditioning. Yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple 
to be added from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by dealing with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Miss Ds credit file.
Miss D agreed with my provisional view and Moneybarn said it had nothing further to add to 
what it had already provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to look at any parts of my provisional decision again, I 
have reviewed the evidence and the conclusions that I reached. I havent changed my view 
and I am upholding Miss Ds complaint. Im still satisfied that the car wasnt as durable as a 
reasonable person would have expected and it wasnt therefore of a satisfactory quality.I also havent changed my view as to the fair and appropriate settlement for Miss Ds 
complaint. I think its fair for Miss D to return the car and for the agreement to be cancelled 
with nothing further to pay. As she has been unable to use the car since August 2021 then 
any payments made by Miss D from that date should be reimbursed together with the costs 
she had met for the air conditioning.
Finally, Miss D should receive compensation from Moneybarn for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her dealing with this faulty car.
Putting things right
Im asking Moneybarn to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss D.
Cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Miss D any payments made under the agreement from August 
2021 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Miss D £210 being the cost she was required to make in respect 
of the repairs to the air conditioning. Yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple 
to be added from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by dealing with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Miss Ds credit 
file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Miss Ds complaint. Im asking 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss D.
Cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Miss D any payments made under the agreement from August 
2021 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Miss D £210 being the cost she was required to make in respect 
of the repairs to the air conditioning. Yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple 
to be added from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by dealing with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Miss Ds credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman