DRN-2781153
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly recorded two claims 
when there should be only one. He wants Aviva to agree to deduct one excess rather than 
two from his settlement and record one claim on any databases shared with other 
companies.  
What happened
Mr S found water was coming through his basement ceiling. He arranged for a plumber to 
visit and contacted Aviva about making a claim for the damage. His policy covers the cost of 
tracing and accessing a leak as well as the damage caused by the leak. The plumber fixed a 
leak, but the water kept coming through the ceiling. The plumber returned and fixed another 
leak in the same fitment (a basin). Some damage was caused to the floor in the bathroom 
and the unit the basin sat in during this visit. The leak stopped.
Aviva said it would accept Mr Ss claim, but it thinks there are two. One is for the damage 
caused by the initial leak and a second for damage caused when a second leak was found 
and repaired. It said the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy say he has to pay an excess 
for each separate claim.
Mr S objected to that and got his plumber to write to Aviva. He did that and said he thought 
both leaks had been ongoing at the same time  but hed fixed the first he found (in a water 
pipe) and assumed there was only one. It was only when he re-attended a couple of days 
later he identified and fixed a leak in the waste pipe of the same basin.
Aviva says this doesnt affect its decision to log two claims and charge two excesses. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said he thought the report from 
the plumber indicated this was one incident  even though it took two visits to identify both 
leaks.
Aviva doesnt agree, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, I must make both parties aware that this decision is only about whether Aviva can 
fairly treat this incident as two claims. Im aware Mr S has other problems with the claim but I 
understand hes raised these as a separate complaint.
Im going to uphold this complaint.
I agree that the terms and conditions in Mr Ss policy say he has to pay an excess for each 
separate claim. What Im not persuaded by is Avivas argument that these were two 
separate claims.
I say this because, from reading the report from the plumber, he thinks both leaks  which 
were in the same fitting  were ongoing at the same time. If hed looked further on his first 
visit and found the second problem, I wouldnt expect Aviva to ask Mr S to make two claims. 
I understand why the plumber didnt look further once hed found the first leak as it appears 
that to do so involved a more invasive process, which damaged the bathroom floor and the 
vanity unit. But I dont think thats Mr Ss fault.
Aviva says if the two incidents had been weeks apart it would have been fair to treat them 
as two claims. That may be the case, but the pertinent point here is the problems werent 
reported weeks apart, and Im satisfied they were both contributing to the general damage at 
the same time. 
Taking everything into account I dont think its fair for Aviva to penalise Mr S simply because 
the plumber missed the second problem on his first visit.
Putting things right
To put things right Aviva should treat this as one claim with one excess and amend its 
records to show that. If its collected a second excess payment from Mr S it should return it.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to put things 
right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman