DRN-3139677
The complaint and what happened
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money that he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam. 
In June 2020, Mr T was going to invest £22,500 into an investment. However, Bank of 
Scotland intervened in this payment as it thought it looked suspicious. He was asked to go to 
branch with ID and information about the investment company. During that time Bank of 
Scotland carried out research on-line and discovered that people were reporting having been 
scammed of many thousands of pounds by the same business. The fraud team spoke with 
Mr T and told him it looked fraudulent. Mr T agreed not to go ahead with the payment. The 
bank told him that he needed to ensure he carried out research even if he found an 
investment opportunity on-line. He was also told he ought to do that via a verifiable third 
party and it said he could contact them for advice. 
Mr T continued searching online for an investment as he was looking to invest around 
£20,000 into an ISA. He came across an advert for JP Morgan which was offering an ISA 
with a 2.55% return on a 1-year fixed rate cash ISA. He invested £9,970 on 2 July 2020 with 
a further payment of £10,030 the following day. He checked that FSCS protection was 
offered. He found the staff professional and polite, and the documentation he completed was 
with DocuSign, all of which reassured him.
 
He was offered another opportunity to invest in a bond and so paid £5,000 on 11 August 
2020. Later he was offered a further opportunity to invest £50,000 at which point he 
contacted JP Morgan and discovered hed been the victim of a scam. He notified the bank 
on 26 August 2020. It was able to recover the last £5,000 payment but not the earlier 
payments. Mr T complained but Bank of Scotland didnt uphold his complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint either as she didnt think the payments were 
unusual such that the bank ought to have intervened.
Mr T has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He has referred to BSI 
PAS:2017 17271 in support of his belief the bank ought to have intervened in the payments. 
He argues the bank knew he had already nearly been the victim of a scam, the payments 
were unusual for the operation of the account, that they were to new payees and were sent 
abroad. He has also copied in some extracts of other complaints, presumably from our 
published decisions, in support of his belief his complaint should be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only summarised the evidence and 
arguments made, I have considered whats been provided. As Bank of Scotland recovered 
the final £5,000 made my consideration is relation to the payments made on 2 and 3 July 
2020 only.
I would firstly explain that all cases are considered individually. Even where similar events 
have happened, such as falling victim to a scam, the outcome will depend on the individual 
circumstances of what happened. 
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer even if theyre duped into 
making that payment, for example to an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice (including that 
which Mr T has referred to), a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act 
on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or 
financial crime it might be liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
The first question I need to consider is whether the bank breached that duty when executing 
Mr Ts payment requests?  
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr T was duped into making the payments. The 
payment of £9,970 on 2 July and £10,030 on 3 July was for what Mr T believed to be an ISA 
investment. I understand Mr T spoke with members of staff and completed the application 
forms and sent the money via online transfers. So I conclude that these were authorised 
payments  for which Mr T is liable, unless there is evidence that the bank could and should  
reasonably have done more to protect him, which issue I now turn to. 
£9,970 and £10,030 are not insubstantial sums and so I have considered whether they ought 
to have triggered the banks alert systems such that it ought to have questioned whether    
Mr T was a victim of a scam and intervened. From Mr Ts bank statements in the proceeding 
6-12 months, I can see that Mr T made other transfers out and of substantial sums - £10,000 
in October 2019, £5,000 in March 2020, £11,000 in June 2020. Mr T also uses his account 
to make very regular payments i.e. every month, and some very irregular payments. I accept 
the payments in dispute were made to a party outside of the UK which is unusual for Mr T. 
But I dont find anything else about the payments to be unusual or uncharacteristic such that 
they ought to have triggered an alert or given the bank grounds for suspecting fraud.  
I have thought very carefully about Bank of Scotland intervening in a payment only a matter 
of days before this. And I can see why Mr T argues this ought to have put the bank on a 
higher alert.  However, I do need to take into account that it was Mr T that was searching for 
an investment opportunity; he wasnt being cold called out of the blue or seemingly had his 
name on a boiler room scam list. And when the bank did intervene on 29 June, it went 
above and beyond what would be expected of an intervention, when it conducted research 
for him. Im mindful that the bank warned Mr T to always do his own research even if what 
he had found appeared to be legitimate; it recommended he go via a verifiable third party for 
his investment and said he could call the bank for advice. So even if I did think bank ought to 
have intervened, this is the type of information and scam warning I would expect it provide. 
And as it had already given that only a matter of days before, Mr T was already aware of it. 
Its also hard to see how Mr T would be in a different position had the bank intervened. Upon 
making enquiries, had the bank understood the payment was for an investment, it would 
likely have told him to carry out his own research, as mentioned above and as previously 
advised. JP Morgan is a well-known investment bank, it is regulated by the FCA and 
investments enjoy FSCS protection to certain limits. Im not persuaded an intervention by the 
bank would have brought to light that Mr T wasnt dealing with the real JP Morgan.   
Overall, Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland breached its duty to Mr T or that it shouldnt have executed without undue delay the payment requests he had made and authorised. And 
had it intervened, as Mr T thinks it ought to, I dont believe his position would be different in 
any event given a real investment company had been cloned. 
I do understand Mr T will be disappointed by this decision. Despite my natural sympathy for 
the situation in which he finds himself, Im not persuaded the bank did anything wrong, such 
that I find it fair to require it to reimburse the money he lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman