DRN-2586140
The complaint
Miss S has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) mis-sold her a loan in 2019.  
What happened
Miss S took out one loan with TFS in June 2019. The loan was for £3,000 to be repaid over 
24 monthly instalments of £184.38.
Miss S complained to TFS in March 2020 about the loan, it didnt uphold and complaint and 
so she referred it to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at what Miss S and TFS said and he thought Miss S 
complaint should be upheld. The adjudicator thought that TFS hadnt done proportionate 
checks before lending and if these checks had been done, TFS wouldve seen it shouldnt 
have lent to Miss S.
TFS didnt respond and so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also take into account and 
react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending 
decision.
TFS says before agreeing to lend it searched Miss S credit file, asked her about her income 
and expenses, it also says it verified the income she declared electronically. TFS has 
provided recordings to show that it called Miss S to discuss her income and expenses and 
some of the entries on her credit file. Based on the outcome of all these checks, it though it 
was reasonable to lend.
Ive carefully thought about what TFS has provided and what it has said. But overall given 
everything it knew about Miss S, I dont think it did enough before lending and it would have 
been reasonable for it to gain a full understanding of her financial circumstances including 
verifying her expenses. 
I say this because the checks TFS carried out showed information that should have 
concerned it. The credit file showed that Miss S had 18 defaults in 2016/2017, of these, eight 
had been satisfied and there were ten still active. The collective outstanding balance on 
these active defaults was over £4,000 and when TFS asked Miss S about these defaults she 
said it was due to her suffering a bereavement around the time and she was repaying £2 a 
month towards each of these  about £22 per month in total, compared to the balance, this 
repayment was very low and suggests Miss S couldnt afford to pay more. 
The credit report also showed that nearly every month before TFS granted this loan, Miss S 
was taking out new lending, in some of the months, she took out more than one loan. Miss S 
was also utilising her credit cards close to their limits. This picture suggests that Miss S was 
struggling financially and would be unlikely to repay the loan sustainably. So even without 
taking its checks further, I think TFS had enough information to know that lending here 
wasnt affordable
The adjudicator looked at Miss S bank statements and said that had TFS taken its checks 
further, it is likely to have seen that Miss S was spending more than she was receiving. I 
have also reviewed Miss S bank statements  Im not suggesting that TFS had to request 
bank statements, but Ive used this as they are an actual reflection of Miss S income and 
expenses.
And I agree with the adjudicator, in the month before this loan was granted, Miss S repaid 
over £4,000 to other creditors, her normal living costs without taking into account food and 
travel was around £446 and she had over £1,100 in loans she had recently taken out. Miss 
S total income for that month was around £4,936. So, it was clear that Miss S was spending 
more than she was getting.
I think this is something that TFS should have known from the checks it already carried out 
and had it chosen to take its checks further, it would have confirmed that Miss S was 
struggling financially and appeared to be surviving mostly on credit. In those circumstances it 
was unfair for it to lend. TFS needs to put things right for Miss S.
  
Putting things right
I understand the loan is still outstanding and so to put things right for Miss S, TFS should:
remove all interest and charges applied to the loan, and
treat all payments Miss S has made as repayments towards the capital of £3,000.
If theres a surplus after doing the above, the TFS should pay Miss S, it should add 
interest at 8% per year simple on the surplus payments from the date they were paid, if 
they were, to the date of settlement;
if theres still a balance outstanding TFS should agree a suitable repayment plan with 
Miss STFS should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss S credit file as a result 
of the interest and charges on this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give Miss 
S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss S complaint. TFS Loans Limited should 
pay Miss S compensation as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman