DRN-4243278
The complaint
Mr N complains about the advice given by JLT Wealth Management Limited to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr N approached JLT in April 2010 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He had 
received an offer from his pension scheme to transfer his pension benefits away. The 
scheme paid for JLT to provide him with advice about his options. 
JLT completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ns circumstances and objectives. 
JLT also carried out an assessment of Mr Ns attitude to risk, which it deemed to be medium.
On 15 June 2010, JLT advised Mr N to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension. 
JLT noted Mr N wanted to accept the incentive to transfer and use the cash. JLT didnt 
obtain reasons why Mr N wanted to access the incentive cash but he has later explained he 
used the £15,849 for home improvements and to pay some debts.
JLTs advice was to transfer if he reinvested the cash incentive and Mr N signed to agree on 
22 June 2010. He ticked a box confirming he wanted to proceed in line with JLTs 
recommendation.
On 26 June 2010 JLT then sent Mr N a letter to explain that it had received his
Request to take the incentive as cash and was therefore being treated as an insistent client. 
JLT said in its letter that it didnt recommend Mr N accessing the incentive cash at the time 
of transfer, and instead recommended he leave it invested for retirement.
The transfer went ahead and Mr N was paid the incentive as cash.
Mr N complained in November 2022 to JLT about the suitability of the transfer advice 
because hed had colleagues who had made complaints and theyd been upheld. After 
listening to them, he now understood that the advice hed received had been unsuitable and 
hes worse off in retirement for the advice.
JLT didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said it only recommended Mr N transfer if he reinvest 
the incentive and this was clear. And Mr N went against its advice, but it felt the advice it had 
given was suitable.
Mr N referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator upheld the 
complaint and required JLT to pay compensation. Our investigator said JLT failed to 
demonstrate that there was a compelling need to transfer. She didnt agree Mr N was an 
insistent client as JLT hadnt made this clear to him and had it advised him not to transfer 
and retain his DB benefits she believes Mr N wouldve agreed to this. 
JLT disagreed, saying it only recommended transferring if Mr N reinvested the cash lump 
sum. It was not required to refer to the discount rates. It disagreed that Mr N had a low 
capacity for loss as he was in a final salary scheme with his employer at the time that could 
achieve double the service compared to the DB scheme transferred.
JLT says Mr N told it he knew he was going against its advice in its review, but hes now 
been given the opportunity to provide a new answer to us and this has changed. Mr N told 
us he wasnt aware he was going against its advice.
It was satisfied its advice was suitable and Mr N chose knowingly to go against this advice.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
As JLTs advice to Mr N was that he should transfer his DB scheme (provided that he also 
invested the incentive), Ive first considered whether that advice was suitable.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JLT should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ns 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability JLT carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ns pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
I think its fair to say that, from a financial comparison perspective, the JLT adviser ought to 
have recognised that the benefits of transferring away from Mr Ns OPS were, at best, 
very marginal. And given that uncertainty, the advice to transfer away from his 
OPS was unsuitable regardless of whether the incentive was re-invested.
It said the critical yield was 6.9% if the enhanced value was added and fully invested into a 
new personal pension (or 7.8% if Mr N took the incentive as cash). So, to make the transfer 
advice for the enhanced amount suitable from a financial perspective, Id need to think the 
critical yield of 6.9% could be exceeded.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given was 6.5% per year for 17 
years to retirement. Which is below the critical yield figure. Its also important to remember 
that even parts of a percentage point, year-on-year, can make substantial differences to 
growth prospects in the longer-term. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle
projection 7%, and the lower projection rate 5% per year. So, I think this shows the transfer 
was unlikely to be in Mr Ns best interests.
JLTs transfer analysis at the time thought a growth rate of 7.5% was achievable. Its 
not entirely clear what this was based on, but past performance is no guarantee of future 
performance and with a discount rate of 6.5% and the regulators middle projection of 7%, I 
dont think it could be said that a transfer out was clearly in Mr Ns best interests. I think 
these figures, at best, show the future potential growth achieving the critical yield of 6.9% 
was highly uncertain  and more likely below that figure. And when comparing features such 
as ongoing charges outside the scheme, the benefits Mr N was giving up by leaving his 
scheme, and the guarantees he had around a reliable future pension income, I think a 
transfer out of the OPS wasnt in Mr Ns best interests.
There would be little point in Mr N giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the lowest critical yield was 6.9%, I think Mr N was unlikely to improve on the benefits 
available in the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to 
risk. JLT has argued that Mr N had capacity for loss. As at the time of the advice he was part of a 
final salary scheme and he could have double the length of service at retirement compared 
to the DB pension subject to the advice. I think its important to note that the adviser at the 
time recorded that the plan benefits represented a significant proportion of his retirement 
funding. And JLTs point about double the length of service was reliant on Mr N remaining 
with this employer for a long time and the DB scheme continuing in that format, which was 
not a given. I appreciate if he changed employer, he may have access to another pension 
plan but again this isnt a given. And Mr Ns circumstances couldve changed, such as not 
being able to work, in which case the importance of Mr Ns DB pension would be paramount.
Whilst generally I do take JLTs point Mr N may have had some capacity for loss given he 
had 17 more years to save for his retirement, this doesnt change the fact that Mr N was 
giving up guaranteed benefits  and to do so, in my view, requires a compelling reason. And 
the financial viability of the transfer wasnt in Mr Ns favour, if Mr N reinvested the cash 
incentive, he needed growth at 6.9% for 17 years just to stay still. The chances of 
meaningfully improving his benefits in retirement was slim. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ns best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Other considerations
the cash incentive
As JLT recorded at the time Mr N was keen to take the cash incentive. Although JLT didnt 
record what Mr N intended to do with it. In reality Mr N says he used the money for home 
improvements, but hes said he didnt require the cash incentive to do this  its just what he 
chose to spend it on.
JLT said that Mr N shouldnt take the incentive as cash  so it cannot rely on this as a 
compelling reason to transfer. However, it has relied on the information and reasoning 
provided in its recommendation report to say it gave suitable advice. And that it was clear 
and not misleading in the information it presented that Mr N should only transfer if the cash 
incentive is reinvested.
However, as this was seemingly the key reason Mr N wished to transfer, I think JLT needed 
to do a lot more to discuss his reasons and challenge his thinking to give suitable advice and 
act in his best interests. 
JLT didnt ask for any information about Mr Ns income and expenditure, or discuss his wider 
financial position, to see if there were other means to obtain this sum. And without having 
done so, I dont think JLT could realistically assess whether accessing this sum was needed 
or if transferring to enable this was in Mr Ns interest.
And without all of these things being explored in the suitability report, with JLT explaining 
how they impacted its recommendation, I think the advice given to Mr N was incomplete. JLT 
says it made Mr N aware of the risks involved with a transfer. But disclosing risks isnt a 
substitute for suitable advice.
By recommending Mr N transfer if he used the incentive to invest without a thorough 
investigation of his circumstances and requirements, I think it failed to properly appraise 
Mr N of the risks of transfer and the likelihood of improving on his benefits in the scheme. The real issue here was Mr N likely receiving less benefits at retirement and losing the 
valuable features of his DB scheme in transferring. Not whether the cash incentive was re-
invested or taken as cash  which was much of the focus in JLTs recommendation.
Tax-free cash at retirement
Although Ive seen a comment in the recommendation letter saying Mr N would have 
found a tax-free lump sum important, I think this is no more than a generic comment and not 
directly related to his situation. Ive seen nothing in JLTs advice that shows why this was 
important or what he needed a lump-sum for. Nor that transferring to receive his tax-free 
cash from the personal pension rules was a compelling reason to transfer.
The ability to take a tax-free cash lump sum was available with the scheme as well. As noted 
in the recommendation report  there was no guarantee the tax-free cash available in the 
personal pension would be higher than that available in the scheme. The schemes tax-free 
cash element was seemingly dependant on the cost of the GMP and so wasnt known at the 
time.
Death benefits
This issue was only briefly mentioned in the recommendation letter and did not form 
a prominent part of the advice. But I think the existing death benefits attached to the OPS in 
this case were underplayed. Mr N was married and so I think the spouses pension provided 
by the DB scheme would have been useful to Mr Ns  wife if he predeceased her. I dont 
think JLT made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated 
 it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in 
a personal pension was.
So, overall, I think the advice JLT gave to Mr N to transfer his DB scheme wasnt suitable for 
him. I dont think he was likely to be any better off by doing so, even if he invested the cash 
incentive being offered by his employer, and there were no other compelling reasons which 
demonstrated the transfer to clearly be in Mr Ns best interests. Mr N was 47 and so he was 
a long way off from retiring, so I dont think he shouldve been advised to give up the security 
offered by his DB scheme when he didnt yet know what his needs in retirement would be.
In light of this, I have to consider whether Mr N still wouldve insisted on transferring away 
from his DB scheme if JLT had given him clear and detailed advice that he should remain in 
his DB scheme.
Would Mr N have transferred out of his DB scheme if JLT had advised him to remain in it?
JLT says that Mr N was an insistent client as it recommended Mr N transfer but only if he 
reinvested the incentive. And Mr N chose to transfer but take the incentive as cash. But as 
Ive said above, I dont think the recommendation was suitable in any event. And so I am not 
persuaded that Mr N was truly an insistent client as he was not presented with all the 
information required to make an informed choice. And I dont think the insistent client 
process was strong enough to be assured that Mr N wouldve insisted regardless of JLTs 
clear advice not to transfer.
At no stage during the suitability report was it stated, in clear monetary terms, how much
Mr N might receive from a personal pension by transferring  particularly if the critical yields 
were not achieved  so that he could make a comparison. I think this was important 
information that JLT shouldve made sure Mr N understood and this could be the 
consequences of transferring out. The TVAS showed what benefits Mr N may receive if the 
rate of return was at the lower band and this showed Mr N would be worse off in retirement and potentially by a few thousand a year. But the suitability report only highlighted the critical 
yields with mostly positive commentary about how they could be met. I think the potential 
downsides ought also to have been given more prominence in the suitability report. 
It is true that JLT said there was a risk that the benefits available at retirement could be less 
than wouldve been available under the scheme. But Mr N wasnt, in my view, given 
sufficient context to make a decision. The advantage of having guaranteed benefits in 
retirement against the uncertainty of performance in a personal pension was not given 
sufficient prominence in the recommendation. And I think this was even more important 
considering the only objective that Mr N seems to have thought about was releasing the 
enhancement as a cash sum  which was relatively unimportant and insignificant when 
compared to the potential value of his DB scheme to him in retirement.
Had Mr N been given suitable advice, i.e not to transfer even with re-investment of the cash 
incentive, I think such a recommendation would have been much clearer to Mr N and hed 
have realised that the benefits of the scheme just werent worth giving up. I think Mr N as an 
inexperienced individual in terms of pensions and financial matters was keen to get his 
hands on the cash enhancement, whereas JLT should have been properly appraising him of 
what he was giving up. And it shouldve looked at Mr Ns circumstances to see if he couldve 
found other ways of financing the cash sum if it was desperately required. Which he says it 
was not. 
Whilst the advice did make it clear in places with bold type that the recommendation was to 
transfer only if the cash incentive was reinvested. It also included paragraphs such as this:
If you decide to take the cash then you should plan to make increased pension contributions 
in the future to make up this shortfall. However, in some circumstances you may feel that it is 
more important to have the cash now rather than in the future.
JLT knowing that Mr N was keen to take the enhancement as cash ought to have 
endeavoured to deter him especially as it said it wouldnt be suitable to do so. But I think this 
paragraph when read by Mr N, wouldve made it easier for him to decide to proceed on that 
basis. And I think it somewhat undermined the warnings elsewhere in the recommendation 
letter.
As Ive already explained, I dont think Mr N was provided with all of the information he 
needed in order to make an informed decision about the advice. And without that information 
I also dont think he was in an informed position to decide whether he wanted to proceed 
with the transfer against the advice he was given as I dont think he truly understood the 
consequences of this. And I dont think the influence of the fact that JLT advised him to 
transfer out of his DB scheme can be ignored. Mr N believed that JLT thought transferring 
out of the DB scheme was in his best interests  albeit if he invested the cash incentive too  
so I think that Mr N likely considered that taking the incentive as cash made much of a 
difference to the overall recommendation.
I also think the process JLT used made it altogether too easy for Mr N to proceed and for it 
to treat him as an insistent client.
Mr N was not told he was an insistent client until after hed already signed to agree to JLTs 
recommendation to transfer. And the letter explaining this didnt require any further signature 
or contact to continue with the transfer. The process ought to have been to challenge Mr Ns 
thinking as he was going against its advice, but Mr N simply had to tick a box. 
And on the basis of this ticked box, JLT sent Mr N what appears to be a templated letter 
telling him it would process the application and transfer his benefits out of the DB scheme, but that it was against its advice. It then proceeded to facilitate the transfer without any 
further contact with Mr N. So Mr N wouldve had to initiate contact to change anything  
there was no timescale given to respond by nor any explanation about if and how he could 
change his mind. The letter only said contact us if you have any questions.
Overall, I think JLT made it altogether too easy for Mr N to agree to being an insistent client 
rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go ahead with the transfer if he 
intended to take the enhancement as cash.
Its clear that the ability to access the enhancement as a cash sum played a part in Mr Ns 
decision to proceed with the transfer. However, had JLTs recommendation been to remain 
in the DB scheme regardless of whether investing the enhancement, I think his view would 
have been quite different. And I havent seen evidence to persuade me that Mr N needed the 
cash such that he wouldve gone against clear advice to remain in his DB scheme. It seems 
to me this was a nice to have, not something he needed or couldnt achieve through other 
means.
I think such a recommendation would have been much clearer to Mr N and hed have 
realised that the benefits of the scheme just werent worth giving up. I think he was unduly 
influenced by the enhancement offer, which expert advice ought to have discussed and 
challenged and alternatives considered. But JLT failed to do so. Had JLT explored other 
ways of raising the cash required and the reasons for needing it and/or explained in real 
terms why the cash incentive shouldnt be prioritised over guaranteed benefits in retirement I 
think Mr N as an inexperienced investor wouldve listened to clear, well thought out expert 
advice. And he wouldve chosen to remain in the scheme.
Summary
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr N was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr N was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr N shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme even with the cash incentive re-invested and I think his leaning towards taking 
the incentive as cash wasnt properly challenged and he wasnt properly informed by JLT. 
Had JLT acted in line with legislation and acted in Mr Ns best interests, I dont think Mr N 
wouldve transferred.
So, I think JLT shouldve advised Mr N to remain in the DB scheme and Mr N wouldve 
accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mr N for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr N, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr N would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. For clarity, Mr N has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ns acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, JLT should:
calculate and offer Mr N redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr N before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr N receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr N accepts JLTs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr N for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ns end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr N as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, JLT may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Ns likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr N the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr N the balance.
If Mr N accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr N can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr N may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman