DRN-4153817
The complaint
Mr H says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva), trading as Colonial Mutual, gave him 
unsuitable advice in 1998 to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions 
(FSAVC) plan instead of informing him about options available to him through his public 
sector employers pension scheme.
Mr H is represented by It Is Your Money (IIYM).
Mrs H received similar advice from Aviva at the same time as Mr H. She was also in the 
same profession. A separate complaint has been set-up to consider the specific merits of her 
case.
What happened
In July 1998 Mr H met with Aviva and was recommended a Colonial Mutual RainbowPlus 
Voluntary Contribution Plan (FSAVC policy). At the time of sale, Mr H was a member of the 
Teachers Pension Scheme. Given his starting date, he was unable to achieve maximum 
service (40 years) by the schemes normal retirement age (60). He was advised to make an 
initial monthly contribution of £64.94 and select indexation of 5% per year. The FSAVC 
policy started in September 1998 and was made paid up in August 2004.
In February 2002, Mr H applied for a Stakeholder pension using the services of an 
independent financial adviser (firm Z). In August 2004 Z arranged for the contribution to his 
Stakeholder plan to be increased. This happened at the same time as his FSAVC policy was 
made paid up. And in October 2006 Z arranged for the FSAVC fund value to be transferred 
to his Stakeholder pension.
On behalf of Mr H, IIYM complained to Aviva on 15 February 2022 about what had 
happened in 1998. It said:
The adviser failed to accurately assess the level of risk our client was willing to take. There 
was no justifiable reason to our client having the portable FSAVC(s) as they were likely to 
remain in the same employment until their retirement.
The adviser failed to establish if our clients occupational pension scheme had an added 
years or any other enhanced benefit AVC arrangement that our client would have chosen if 
properly advised.
There is no evidence that the adviser compared the benefits of the FSAVC with additional 
contributions to the occupational AVC scheme. The adviser should have referred our client 
to the company scheme for the full details of charges in order to make an informed choice.
There is no evidence that the adviser made our client fully aware of the comparison of 
charges with the FSAVC recommended and the in house AVC scheme.
There is no evidence that more suitable retirement alternatives were discussed with our 
client in a fair and balanced way. If the adviser had advised our client correctly, they would 
have contributed to the most suitable in house AVC arrangement.
On 5 April 2022 Aviva responded to Mr H rejecting his complaint in the following terms:
After examining the sales documentation, Im satisfied our representative recommended a 
suitable product for Mr H. It was not possible for Mr H to reach maximum pension benefits 
with the Teachers Pension Scheme by the schemes retirement date of 60. It was 
appropriate to recommend making extra pension contributions (AVC) to help cover the 
expected shortfall in scheme membership.
As company representatives, our advisers were only authorised to discuss and recommend 
our products. But they were expected to check customers knew about the alternative option 
of an in-house AVC. Im satisfied Mr H was made aware of the alternative in-house AVC 
arrangements and informed he should contact his employer to obtain full details. He signed 
the declaration to confirm:
I have read and understood the information contained in the booklet entitled improving your 
retirement benefits - Its your Choice. After comparing the options available, I have decided 
to proceed with my FSAVC Application to Colonial.
Mr H approached this Service for a review. Aviva initially made a challenge as to whether 
hed brought his complaint in time. But it later consented to this Service reviewing the merits 
of his case.
An Investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. He didnt think Aviva had done enough to show it 
had made him aware that an in-house option for making additional voluntary contributions to 
his employer pension scheme was likely to be cheaper. And that if it had done so, it was 
more likely than not hed have opted for that. He didnt consider the role of Z from 2002 to 
have a bearing on his recommendations.
Aviva disagreed. It considered the original advice had been suitable and that it had acted 
appropriately in making the original recommendation. It also noted the role of firm Z in 2002, 
2004 and 2006 in providing him with pension advice. It says its reasonable to assume it 
provided compliant advice. It suggests Z wouldve had a role in assessing his provision on 
each occasion and therefore as part of that process wouldve considered his FSAVC policy.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Hs complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. As neither party has 
provided any new material evidence or arguments, I see no reason to depart from my initial 
findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Aviva has provided the application and sales illustration from 1998. In addition its supplied a 
copy of the Choices brochure with a declaration signed by Mr H. It says:The declaration signed by Mr H confirmed he had compared the options available and knew 
the following:
- An in-house AVC scheme is usually a money purchase scheme too. However, some 
schemes offer an added years option as an alternative to a money purchase facility. This 
means that your contributions will be used to buy you a number of years of additional 
pensionable service.
- Will I receive information about charges? ... With an in-house AVC scheme, set up through 
an insurance company., you should be able to obtain an illustration with which to make a 
comparison.
- We recommend that you compare the benefits and options outlined within this booklet with 
those available under your employers in-house AVC. Some of the features outlined will be 
available, some will not.
Ive considered the regulatory position. In May 1996 the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) 
issued Regulatory Update 20 (RU20) which set out the procedures it expected product 
providers to follow. It said that a tied adviser like Aviva shouldnt recommend its own FSAVC 
until it had:
- Drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative.
- Discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (including likely 
lower charges for AVCs and the possibility of employers being willing to top-up 
benefits).
- Directed the client to their employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information 
on the in-scheme option.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence Aviva has provided from 1998. In particular the 
brochure it provided to customers, which I can see Mr H signed to say hed read and 
understood. Unfortunately for Aviva, there are significant weaknesses in the document which 
undermines its position.
For example, on the costs of its FSAVC compared with the in-house AVC option the 
brochure said:
With [the FSAVC plan], your Colonial Financial Advisor will provide you with a personal 
illustration giving details of the benefits included and the cost of these benefits.
With an in-house AVC scheme, set up through an insurance company, you should be able 
to obtain an illustration with which to make a comparison. However, if the in-house AVC has 
been arranged with a building society, it is currently not possible to obtain an illustration 
because law does not require building societies to provide them.
Aviva will be familiar with what RU20 said about such cost comparisons at the time:
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, reflecting 
economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration expenses by the 
employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely to exert the greatest 
impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the client.
The brochure doesnt fulfil RU20s requirement.
Further, there are other weaknesses in Avivas brochure that means I cant rely on it to show 
it met the regulatory requirements when giving Mr H advice. For example, I dont think there 
was a clear direction in Avivas document for customers to approach their employer for more 
information before making a decision. And I find the way certain matters are presented, such as the special and very rare situation where employers might make contributions to AVC 
plans are skewed or overly nuanced.
Aviva says its satisfied its adviser made Mr H aware of the in-house options for making 
additional voluntary contributions to his pension and informed him he should contact his 
employer to obtain full details. A problem I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed 
between Mr H and Aviva in 1998.
Aviva is on the backfoot here because it hasnt been able to produce a copy of either the 
fact-find it conducted with him or the suitability letter it was required to provide him with.
Based on the available evidence, given weaknesses in its supporting brochure and the 
absence of a suitability letter, I cant reasonably conclude the likely cost difference between 
the FSAVC policy and Mr Hs employers in-house scheme was pointed out to him 
effectively. And I think that if he had been made aware of the cost difference, its more likely 
than not he wouldve contributed to his employers AVC scheme.
Overall, for the reasons given, I think its more likely than not that Aviva didnt comply with 
the regulatory requirements for FSAVC sales, and that its advice to set up such a plan was 
unsuitable. Mr H should be compensated on the basis that he wouldve contributed to his 
employers in-house AVC scheme if hed had suitable advice.
In responding to the Investigators recommendation, Aviva advanced the following argument:
We only know about the Stakeholder (taken out in 2002) because it is an Aviva policy. The 
stakeholder contribution was increased at the same time the FSAVC policy was made paid 
up (2004) and then the FSAVC fund was transferred to the Stakeholder (2006).
Our records show an IFA was involved in 2002, 2004 and 2006. The complainant may 
consider it 'extremely unlikely [Mr H] would have been given anything other than information 
about the Stakeholder, but I believe it is reasonable to expect the IFA to have been 
compliant with the regulatory requirements in 2002, 2004 and 2006. And it is for the 
complainant to provide sales documentation from those dates to evidence the IFA failed to 
give compliant advice.
The Investigator asked IIYM for information about Mr Hs engagement with Z in 2002, 2004 
and 2006. It wasnt able to provide any documentation but responded in the following terms:
we have spoken to Mrs H and her husband today regarding their recollections of the 
advice meetings they had in the early 2000's. [They do not] recall the exact meetings but 
[say] that in house AVCs were never mentioned when [they] took out a stakeholder pension. 
It is our understanding that advisers selling stakeholder pensions were not required to 
discuss in house AVCs and it certainly wouldn't have been expected of any adviser to 
highlight a possible previous mis selling issue.
For anyone to impose what we would consider an unfair time bar of the case at this late 
stage after the jurisdiction issue has previously been resolved, we would need to have 
evidence that the advisor in the early 2000's told Mr H that he had been given unsuitable 
advice in 1998. We cant assume that this happened, just because Mr H started contributing 
to the stakeholder pension from that point. Furthermore, even if Mr H was advised that the 
FSAVC wasnt suitable for him in the early 2000's, it doesnt mean that he would 
automatically think hed been given the incorrect advice in 1998 as advice and 
circumstances can often change.
The question Aviva raises is reasonable. But I should make clear at this point, as it has 
consented to this Service reviewing the merits of Mr Hs complaint, it cant now retract.It isnt disputed that Mr H received services from firm Z in 2002, 2004 and 2006 related to his 
pension provision. We dont know what the scope of that service was, what his objectives, 
circumstances or even risk appetite were at the time of these interactions.
Im mindful Mr H has told this Service that AVCs were never mentioned in his engagement 
with Z. But its plausible that if Z was providing Mr H with an advice service relating to his 
retirement provision, some consideration was given to his FSAVC plan. Aviva says his 
contributions ended in 2004, and that he increased his contributions to his Stakeholder plan 
at the same time. And that in 2006 he transferred his benefits away from the FSAVC to his 
Stakeholder plan. These events suggest some linkage in the decision making process.
 
There are of course a range of open questions here. For example, had Mr H been a member 
of his employers AVC plan, would he ever have considered a Stakeholder plan in 2002? We 
know he remained with his public sector employer until 2020.
Aside from drawing on Zs engagement with Mr H in support of its initial arguments around 
the jurisdiction of this case, presumably Aviva now argues an element of any liability arising 
from this case could rest with Z for the period between 2002 and 2004.
Helpfully, the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) FSAVC Review Model Guidance from 
May 2000, indicates an approach here which I think is fair. In the section on redress, under 
Section 8.2 it says:
8.2.1 Where a firm concludes that it may be jointly liable along with one or more other firms 
for the investors loss then the firm that gave the first advice should review the whole period 
(including the period after the other firm(s) became involved) and then seek to obtain redress 
from the other firm(s).
8.2.2 Where a firm believes that the causal link between the advice it gave and any ongoing 
loss has been broken, perhaps because a second firm gave advice at the same time as a 
change of employment, then the first firm need only consider the period up to the second 
advice.
In my provisional decision I said I took the view the approach at 8.2.1 is more likely to apply 
in Mr Hs case. Neither party has challenged that view.
Of course, whether Aviva seeks to pursue other parties in relation to any liabilities arising 
from this case which it considers should be shared, is a matter for it to decide, and if so to 
then be able to demonstrate. But recognising this, in making provision for redress I will 
require Mr H to make certain undertakings to Aviva.
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with 
the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into 
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 
January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Mr H will need to provide Aviva with a letter of authority to make enquires and secure 
information from Z about its interactions with him in 2002,2004 and 2006, in order to 
understand the nature and scope of those interactions, as well as his circumstances and 
objectives at the relevant time. This will assist it with any claim it might deem appropriate to 
make against Z.
Further, Mr H will need to undertake that if he has brought any complaints against Z, any 
redress hes received can be used to offset any liability arising for Aviva from this complaint. 
And if he hasnt complained to Z, that he assigns any rights to do so about this matter over 
to Aviva. As he will appreciate, he cant benefit from double recovery in respect of the same 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. I require Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to pay compensation to him in line with the redress Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman