DRN-4217444
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled a claim on her 
travel insurance policy.
Mrs C has a representative, but for ease of reference I will refer to all submissions as being 
made by her. 
What happened
Mrs C became unwell on her journey home from a holiday. Her flight had to make an 
emergency landing so she could be seen by a medical professional. She said she attempted 
to receive medical assistance through her travel insurance policy with IPA, but she had 
difficulty getting hold of them and was unhappy with the level of service and lack of support 
they provided. 
Mrs C made a claim for the costs she incurred during her return trip home. IPA paid a 
settlement figure of £549.73. They also acknowledged their delays and said they had 
provided a poor service so offered £150 compensation. 
Unhappy that her claim hadnt been settled in full, Mrs C referred her complaint to this 
service. She said she had provided IPA with evidence of all the costs shed incurred 
arranging travel back to the UK, so it was unclear why aspects of her claim remained 
unanswered  such as train tickets and taxis for the journey home.
Since referring the complaint, IPA offered to increase the compensation payment to £200. 
Mrs C rejected this offer. 
We tried to investigate further with IPA asking them for a full break down of all the costs that 
were claimed, and what was paid and what wasn't. But to date, we still havent received an 
appropriate response. 
In the absence of anything further from IPA, our investigator concluded they needed to 
asses the remaining aspects of the claim in line with the terms of Mrs C policy, as a priority. 
And he felt their offer of compensation should be increased to £300 to fairly reflect the 
impact and distress caused by IPAs poor customer service and continued delays in the 
progress of her claim. 
IPA implied they agreed with the outcome. However, when our investigator asked for 
clarification on the remaining aspects on the claim and for confirmation the 8% interest and 
increase in compensation hed recommended would be paid, IPA didnt respond in time.  So 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 May explaining I was intending to uphold this complaint. 
In summary I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
It appears that aspects of this claim remain unresolved and unfortunately, IPA have provided 
limited information about how it considered the claim. Based on the policy terms, IPA hasnt 
explained why the claim hasnt been paid in full or whether any exclusions apply. So I dont 
see any reason why the claim hasnt been paid in full.
The onus is on Mrs C to prove her claim. I understand she has provided IPA with evidence 
of her claim in the form of receipts. Unless IPA explains why her claim costs arent covered, I 
think it should pay the outstanding amounts without delay, plus interest. 
My decision may change if IPA provides further information as requested or demonstrates 
an exclusion applies. 
There is enough information to fairly conclude that this claim hasnt been handled promptly. 
And I dont think IPAs offer of £200 goes far enough to compensate Mrs C for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the poor customer service and delays through the claims 
process. 
I explained I wanted to ask IPA to use the receipts provided and pay the claim in full in line 
with Mrs Cs policy terms and conditions within 28 days of my final decision. And to add 8% 
simple interest from the date of the claim until the date of settlement. I also increased the 
compensation to £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays 
in answering the claim in full. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
IPA didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mrs C clarified the communication issues shed experienced with IPA during the claim. In 
relation to the costs that remained outstanding, she confirmed she was reimbursed for some 
of the hotel accommodation costs and the London to Birmingham train journey. But she was 
still awaiting the full train fares from Spain back to the UK, and the associated taxi fares & 
costs. 
She said the train from Spain to the UK was only used as method of transport as a last 
attempt to get repatriated.  She explained couldnt take the risk of becoming unwell again on 
a flight with the possibility of diverting another plane, inconveniencing passengers, and 
causing cost to the airline.  She said she provided evidence of her 'no show' for the flight to 
IPA having obtained it from the airline. 
Mrs C confirmed she had met all the requests from IPA - she sent us a copy of her claim 
form and the original receipts shed provided to them to evidence her costs. 
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA didnt respond so there is still no explanation for why the claim hasnt been paid in full. 
And they havent demonstrated any exclusion applies. I understand Mrs C has provided IPA with evidence of her claim in the form of receipts. So in 
the absence of IPA explaining why her full claim costs arent covered, I think its 
unreasonable to not pay the outstanding amounts without delay, plus interest. And 
compensation for the ongoing delay in completing the claim. 
Putting things right
Inter Partner Assistance SA need to put things right by:
Paying the claim in full based on the receipts provided, in line with Mrs Cs policy 
terms and conditions within 28 days of my final decision.
Add 8% simple interest from the date of the claim until the date of settlement
Pay Mrs C £300 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience
caused by the poor customer service and delays. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA and direct them to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman