The complaint
Mr A says that fraudulent cash machine withdrawals totalling £500 were made from his Bank 
of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) current account on the 25 July 2019.
What happened
Mr A says that the last time he used his debit card was on the 25 July 2019 when he made a 
payment via chip and PIN at 5:19pm in a shop. He says after leaving the shop he was 
approached by an acquaintance and visited their house. Mr A explains that later that evening 
he returned home to find his wallet missing which contained his debit card and PIN letter. 
Halifax investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. They thought that 
Mr A had authorised or carried out the withdrawals himself because:
All the transactions were carried out using chip and PIN.
No transactions were attempted after Mr As card was cancelled.
They believe that the withdrawals dont fit the usual pattern of behaviour for fraud 
theyd expect a fraudster to take the maximum possible amount, but it didnt happen
in Mr As case. Instead the first withdrawal was for £30.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint. And although they thought Mr A hadnt 
authorised the transactions, they thought hed failed with gross negligence to protect his 
security details and therefore Halifax shouldn't be liable for the transactions. 
Mr A said he has memory problems which meant he needed to keep his PIN in his wallet, 
but it's also possible his PIN had been overlooked when he carried out his last genuine 
transaction just over five hours before the disputed withdrawals. 
As Mr A didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Halifax can hold Mr A liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not he acted with gross negligence and failed to protect his security 
details.  
DRN-1486081Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr As genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. And I think its more likely than not Mr A didnt authorise 
the disputed withdrawals  I say this because:
Mr A's withdrawal limit was fully used on the day of the disputed transaction.
Transactions were attempted after the card was cancelled. 
Theres a plausible explanation for how the fraudsters obtained Mr As card and PIN. 
Mr A's explained that he lost his wallet which contained both his debit card and a PIN 
letter. 
Mr A reported his card lost on the day the disputed transactions were carried out. 
 
But Halifax are also entitled to hold Mr A liable for the disputed withdrawals if theres 
evidence he acted with gross negligence and failed to protect his security details. And Im 
satisfied its fair for Halifax to rely on this. I say this because:
Mr A has explained that on receiving his PIN letter he kept this in his wallet. And it was still 
located there on the day his wallet was lost or stolen. Mr A has suggested his PIN could 
have been obtained by someone unknown to him observing it when he completed his last 
genuine transaction. So I've considered this possibility. But I think, on balance, Mr A's PIN 
was more likely than not obtained via the letter in his wallet. I say this because:
There aren't any PIN errors recorded. If a fraudster had obtained Mr A's PIN by 
shoulder surfing - instead of having the PIN letter - I'm satisfied there's a higher 
chance of entering the PIN incorrectly. 
Mr A's last transaction took place at 5:19pm - but the first disputed transaction didn't 
take place until after 10pm. If a fraudster had obtained Mr A's PIN by shoulder surfing 
it seems unusual they'd wait for over five hours before using it. And instead I think it's 
more likely than not Mr A's card and PIN was obtained at the same time, via his 
wallet, and used shortly after. 
 
Mr As explained he suffers from memory problems, and this is the reason he keeps his PIN 
letter in his wallet. I've thought about Mr A's actions in doing this - and whether he'd 
previously put Halifax 'on notice' about his condition. But Mr A has explained he hasn't 
previously informed Halifax about his memory problems, so they weren't aware of his 
situation and therefore couldn't put any additional security measures into place. Or advise 
him on the best action to take to protect his account from fraud. 
I understand that to Mr A keeping the PIN letter in his wallet seems like a reasonable action 
to take  but Im satisfied that a reasonable person would regard this as acting with gross 
negligence, and in doing so hes failed with his obligations to protect his security 
details. Therefore Halifax are entitled to hold him liable for the disputed withdrawals. 
In conclusion, I think on balance Mr A failed to comply with his obligations and acted with 
gross negligence, therefore Halifax are entitled to hold him liable for the disputed 
transactions. 
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold Mr A's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.Jeff Burch
Ombudsman