DRN-2699238
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Nationwide Building Society are asking her to pay off debt that she 
thought she had already settled.
What happened
Mrs W had two loans with Nationwide. One was for £9,299.95 and the other £9,587.12. In 
September 2018 she decided to consolidate the two loans with a new loan, in order to 
reduce her monthly payments. This included around £2,000 extra borrowing.
The application for the new loan was accepted and a further amount of £2,514.72 was paid 
into Mrs Ws account. However Mrs W contacted Nationwide to say she hadnt intended to 
complete the loan application and no longer wanted the new loan.
Nationwide agreed to cancel the new loan and re-set Mrs Ws two previous loans at the 
original payment terms. To do this, it said Mrs W needed to first pay back the additional 
£2,514.72, which she did. 
Once this was returned Nationwide set up two loans of £9,299.95 and £9,587.12, to reflect 
Mrs Ws position before the consolidation loan. In order to do this it had to pay the amounts 
into Mrs Ws current account. It would then withdraw the money straight after. 
Nationwide paid the first amount into Mrs Ws account and withdrew this again on the same 
day. The second amount was then paid into Mrs Ws account. But due to an error by 
Nationwide, this wasnt withdrawn so remained in Mrs Ws account.
At this point Mrs W was in a position to pay off both the loans in full. So she made two 
payments to do this, shortly after the loans were re-set. She therefore thought the loans had 
been re-paid. 
At the start of 2020 Mrs W was contacted by Nationwide to say that it hadnt received any 
payments to her outstanding loan for some time. Mrs W said that this wasnt right as she had 
settled her loans in 2018. She made a complaint. 
Nationwide responded to her complaint and explained it had made an error when re-setting 
her loans. It offered her £100 compensation to make up for this mistake. However it said that 
as it hadnt removed the money for the second re-set loan from her account, this was still 
owed.
Mrs W didnt think this was fair. She said she had thought all the money owed had been re-
paid and she hadnt realised that Nationwide had made an error. She said she was no longer 
in a position to repay the loan so didnt think it was fair that she should have to, as it had 
been an honest mistake. 
Our investigator considered all the evidence but didnt recommend Mrs Ws complaint be 
upheld. She said that while she agreed Nationwide had made an error, Mrs W had still had 
the benefit of the money, so it was fair that this was paid back. She agreed that £100 
compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said that she had re-mortgaged her house in order to pay off the 
two loans and this meant there were a number of large payments going into and out of her 
account at the time. So she says this is why she didnt notice Nationwides error. She also 
said she no longer has the means to re-pay the loan so it isnt fair that she is now expected 
to do so. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I need to consider whether the business has made a 
mistake. And where it has, what it needs to do to put things right to put its customer back in 
the position they would have been in had the mistake not happened.
In this case, Nationwide has accepted that it made a mistake. When re-setting Mrs Ws loans 
it put an additional £9,587.12 into her current account. And it didnt withdraw this amount as 
it had intended to.
In order to decide what Nationwide should do, I have considered the impact its mistake had 
on Mrs W. I understand that it was Mrs Ws intention to pay off all her debts. And that she 
had re-mortgaged her house in order to do this. I can see that she made two payments to 
clear the loans after they were reset in 2018. So I have no reason to doubt that this was her 
intention at the time. 
However, while she did pay £9,299.95 and £9,587.12 to clear her loans, Nationwide also 
paid £9,587.12 into her account and didnt withdraw it as intended. So while Mrs W 
considered her loans to be repaid, she had benefited from an additional £9,587.12, which 
effectively cancelled out her second loan re-payment.
I understand this was an error on Nationwides part. However it isnt the job of this service to 
punish businesses for their errors, just to put things right when they make mistakes. In this 
case Mrs W had the additional money credited into her account. So has had the benefit of 
this extra money. If Nationwide hadnt made the error Mrs W would have paid off her loans, 
but she wouldnt have had the use of around an additional £9,000. So I think its reasonable 
that she should pay this back to Nationwide. 
I want to add that I dont think there was any intention on Mrs Ws part to try and avoid 
paying this back. I dont doubt that she made an honest mistake and didnt notice the 
amount paid by Nationwide created a surplus, as she was making a number of large 
transactions at the time. However, even though she didnt notice it at the time, she still 
benefited from the additional money. So I think its reasonable that Nationwide ask her to re-
pay the amount. 
I can see the situation has caused Mrs W some distress. She had thought that her debts had 
been repaid, so receiving a phone call to say she still owed money would have been 
distressing. Nationwide has offered Mrs W £100 compensation to make up for the distress 
its error has caused her. And I think this is the right amount in the circumstances. 
I understand Mrs W has concerns about paying off the debt, as she says she is no longer in 
the position to meet the required payments. Nationwide has said it will speak to her about possible payment plans, to help find a solution that she is able to afford. And I think thats fair 
in the circumstances. 
For these reasons I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly in the circumstances. So I 
wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman