DRN-3403554
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. This car had already 
completed a high mileage and was about six and a half years old. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be exhibiting quite a bit of wear and tear. But I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect the undertray to be hanging off or the gear lever to be 
broken. Neither do I think theyd expect the oil light to be showing at 16% immediately after 
an oil change or the windscreen wipers to be damaged after the pre-sale MOT. 
The relevant legislation explains that if faults occur within the first six months after supply we 
are to assume they were present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible 
for the cars quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Mr M has provided photographs to show that the loose undertray; broken gear lever and low 
oil level indication were present very soon after the car was supplied to him and Moneybarn 
havent provided information to dispute that. So, Im persuaded those faults were present 
when the car was supplied, and I think that means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
that point.
Whilst I can see that Mr M changed the wiper blades shortly after he took receipt of the car, I 
have no evidence to demonstrate why that was necessary or what condition the blades were 
in. As the car passed its MOT shortly before it was supplied to Mr M it would seem likely that 
the wiper blades were working okay at that time. Im therefore not asking Moneybarn to 
refund the cost of the wipers.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation gives Moneybarn one opportunity to repair the car and I dont think 
theyve had that. 
So Moneybarn should arrange to repair the undertray and fix the gear lever and they should 
also check the oil level and ensure the level indicator is reset for Mr M. As Mr M lives some 
way from the dealership I think its fair for him to provide quotes for the work to Moneybarn to 
have the work done locally. 
Mr M has been inconvenienced by this issue. Hes had to chase the dealership and 
Moneybarn for responses and hes had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think 
the matter could have been resolved earlier. In the circumstances I think Moneybarn should 
pay Mr M £50 to compensate him for that inconvenience.
Mr M has had to drive a car that had some faults whilst hes been waiting for a resolution. 
His use has been impaired, and I would agree with the investigator that the business should 
therefore refund 25% of any finance instalments paid until the repair is completed and in 
respect of that impaired use.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
Review quotes for repair from Mr M and pay the appointed garage when work is 
completed.
Refund 25% of the finance instalments paid from the date of inception of the 
agreement until the car is repaired. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund 
from the date of payment to the date of repair as Mr M has been deprived of that 
money.
Pay Mr M £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman