DRN-4013921
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund the losses resulting from 
some transactions made through her accounts which she says she didnt authorise or 
otherwise consent to. Also that the bank unfairly closed her accounts and registered a 
CIFAS marker against her.
What happened
The circumstance that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Ms B says she didnt authorise or know anything about 65 transactions that passed 
through her two Barclays current accounts between 2 March and 13 July 2020. Over 
£25,000 was paid in and more than £36,200 was paid out.
Barclays investigated the disputed transactions and concluded that all the outgoing 
payments had been made by Ms B. In August 2020 it decided to close her accounts with 
immediate effect and reported a CIFAS marker to the National Fraud Database. After a 
subsequent review, in December 2020 the marker was removed and £200 compensation 
offered to Ms B. But she didnt accept, and asked us to look into the matter
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. But Ms B disagreed, so 
the case has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has made detailed submissions which include that this service hasnt sufficiently 
addressed all of her questions and concerns. I appreciate her strength of feeling, but Im not 
required to respond to each and every question and this includes explaining exactly what 
each piece of data on the banks records relating to her mobile banking means. Ive 
concentrated on the main issues and what I believe to be the crux of the complaint and have 
explained what I believe the banks records do and do not show. If I havent commented 
specifically on a particular point, that doesnt mean I havent considered it.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
The disputed transactions
In accordance with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Ms B isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply 
with the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Ive considered whether Ms B likely authorised the transactions thatve been disputed  that 
is whether she completed the agreed steps to make the payments or gave consent for 
someone else to complete them. And where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive 
based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
Given everything Ive seen, I think its more likely than not Ms B  or someone acting on her 
behalf, with her permission  undertook the disputed transactions. I say that having taken 
the following, in particular, into account:
Ms B has suggested that a man she met on a dating website, chatted with for a few 
months and saw in person briefly on one occasion might somehow be involved with the 
disputed payments. She hasnt shared with this service any of the communications she 
had with this individual. But shes highlighted that he had a number of aliases and his 
given surname was used as a reference for a number of the disputed transactions. Its 
not uncommon for fraudsters to use dating websites to make contact with potential 
victims. The fraudsters often spend time building rapport and trust before asking the 
victim to make and receive payments for them. But that isnt what Ms B has alleged in 
this particular case. She has maintained throughout her contact with the bank and this 
service that she never disclosed any information about her accounts or her debit cards to 
anyone, including this particular individual. Nor did she share her online banking 
credentials with anyone. And this individual wasnt given access to her phone during 
their one face-to-face meeting. In the circumstances, I cant see how this particular 
individual wouldve been able to perpetrate fraud using Ms Bs accounts without her 
knowledge or consent.
The earlier disputed outgoing transactions were faster payments and Im satisfied 
Barclays records indicate these were carried out using the banking app on Ms Bs own 
mobile phone. And there are many instances where Ms Bs account has been accessed 
through the banks mobile banking app using her phone. Some of those logins are made 
from IP addresses that tie in with some of the disputed online/cardholder not present 
debit card payments. Ive also heard a phone call in which Ms B told the bank she had a 
password lock on her phone and her banking app could only be accessed via password 
or fingerprint. She also says no-one else had access to her phone or her login 
credentials during the time the disputed transactions occurred. And theres nothing which 
suggests a point of compromise at which a third party could have somehow hacked into 
her phone and/or guessed her login credentials. In all the circumstances, I cant see how 
an unknown third party could have performed these transactions without Ms Bs 
knowledge and/or consent.
Ms B still seems to be somewhat confused about which debit cards were used to 
undertake which disputed transactions. I dont mean this as a criticism and think the 
confusion has likely arisen due to the letters the bank sent her  it wrote to her on both 
6 June and 11 September 2020 to say that card ending 6012 had been cancelled. But 
the September letter only quoted transactions that occurred between 13 April and 
24 May 2020 and I havent seen a similar letter for card ending 0012. But I have seen the 
banks records relating to the individual disputed transactions and the various debit cards 
issued on Ms Bs two current  accounts and can confirm the following. Debit card ending 
4028 was issued on account ending 3939 in 2019 and was active until the account was 
closed. Debit card ending 6012 for account ending 5832 was issued in January 2020 and 
was cancelled on 4 June 2020 and there is no evidence that any transactions were made 
using this card after that date. Card ending 0015 for account ending 5832 was posted to 
Ms B on 6 June 2020, all the disputed card transactions after this date were made with 
this card and the card was cancelled when the account was closed. I also note there was 
a three-week gap between 25 May and 15 June when no disputed payments occurred. This coincides with the date when the debit card was cancelled and the replacement 
issued. And I note there were still many instances over this period of time when Ms Bs 
mobile banking facility was logged into.
Ms Bs recollections of events relating to her debit cards seems to have changed over 
time. At one point she seems to suggest that she didnt receive a replacement card. But 
Ive heard her say in a phone call with the bank that she did receive this. Another time 
she said she was told to surrender a card at the branch in early-July and asks how the 
subsequent disputed card payments were made  but she didnt mention this in her initial 
complaint statement to this service. And alongside the disputed payments in July, there 
are also debit card payments using card ending 0015 of the more everyday type 
(groceries etc) made at shops local to Ms Bs home and which she had frequented in the 
past.
The disputed debit card payments are interspersed with more everyday spending  at 
locations close to Ms Bs home  using the same cards and which Ms B has not disputed 
having made. She says she didnt give her debit card details to anyone else and I cant 
see any point of compromise where these details might have fallen into the hands of a 
fraudster. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied its more likely than not the three debit 
cards referenced above were received and used by Ms B.
Barclays records indicate Ms B called on 4 June 2020 but unfortunately, due to some 
systems changes, it doesnt have a recording of that call. The notes suggest Ms B 
reported that two recent cardholder not present transactions were fraudulent and that 
shed call back once they appeared on her bank statement to raise a fraud case  they 
were detailed on the June 2020 statement. The call-handler arranged for a Lost & 
Stolen marker to be applied to the debit card that was used for these two payments 
(card ending 6012) and arranged for a new debit card to be issued (card ending 0015). 
The banks notes dont show a further call with Ms B about these two disputed payments 
but notes from 7 July 2020 indicate the bank had decided to refund the two transactions 
which totalled just £150.60. And on 12 July 2020 this same amount was credited to her 
account and the bank wrote to Ms B to confirm card ending 6012 had been cancelled 
and quoting those two disputed transactions only. Its not clear to me how if Ms B spotted 
these two allegedly unauthorised, pending transactions, she didnt also notice, and report 
to the bank, the other 43 disputed transactions that came into and went out of her 
account between 2 March and 3 June 2020. Barclays records indicate Ms B called the 
bank again later in June to talk about the possibility of merging the two overdrafts she 
held on her two current accounts and the financial difficulties she was experiencing. She 
seems to have told the bank that she was seeking help from a well-known debt charity 
who would soon be in touch with a repayment offer. But none of these notes talk about 
any of the 65 disputed transactions. The banks notes arent entirely clear but it seems 
these were identified after it proactively blocked Ms Bs account, which I will talk more 
about below.
Theres been some uncertainty about when Barclays blocked Ms Bs accounts. Ms B 
says she received a text message from Barclays on 5 July 2020 saying there was 
unusual activity on her account. And, when she visited the branch the next day, she was 
told there were limits as to what she was allowed to withdraw from her account and she  
wasnt allowed to view the account balances. But Barclays says it has no records of a 
branch visit on that day. Its records show Ms B logged onto her mobile banking app that 
day. And I cant see any withdrawals being made on 6 July. But I can see notes on 
Barclays records from 10 July 2020 which say an account block had been added and a 
text sent to Ms B about this. I think this is important because the last payment Ms B has 
disputed was made on 10 July 2020 (although it didnt appear on her account statement until 13 July). So I dont agree with Ms Bs assertion that Barclays allowed any of the 
disputed payments to go through after the account block had been applied. And Ive 
already explained the position with Ms Bs various debit cards. Having considered all of 
the evidence, I dont think a block was (or ought to have been) applied any sooner than 
10 July 2020.
Ive already commented in part about Ms B not noticing the 65 disputed transactions for 
some time  in total the alleged fraud took place over 4 months. Ms B says she didnt 
check her account activity or bank statements during that time. She merely logged on 
and checked the account balances to check she had enough to pay for items, like 
groceries. I think its important to note that Ms B says she was in financial difficulties at 
this time, having lost her job in early-2020, around the time the pandemic lockdown 
started. I also note that money was moved (via both standing order and ad hoc 
payments) between her savings and current account over the course of this four-month 
period. She see she received regular credits from some individuals, but also ad hoc 
credits from others. For example, on 27 April, three payments came into one of her 
current accounts from three different people  these payees dont appear otherwise on 
the statements Ive seen. The three payments totalled £900, havent been disputed and 
one had a reference of loan. Some of the disputed outgoing payments are relatively 
large and, without them, there wouldnt have been enough in Ms Bs account to make the 
outgoing payments. In all the circumstances, I find it somewhat difficult to accept that 
Ms B wasnt keeping a closer eye on her accounts and didnt notice the disputed 
payments for some considerable time.
Ms B suggests that Barclays should have queried the larger disputed transactions and she 
points, in particular, to some long-standing guidance about protecting consumers from 
financial harm. I agree that Barclays should have systems and controls in place to enable it 
to monitor accounts and payments in order to counter various risks, including money 
laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and scams. And sometimes it should take 
additional steps/make additional checks, before processing a payment or decline a payment 
altogether to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. I think 
unusual patterns of transactions did start to form at certain times which perhaps should have 
prompted intervention from the bank. But, in this particular case, given what Ms B has told 
us and what Ive said above about Ms B having authorised all the outgoing payments, I cant 
see why any intervention the bank mightve made would have stopped the payments from 
going through.
Given that I think Ms B authorised the transactions I dont its likely any recovery action  
such as contacting the receiving banks or attempting chargebacks  would likely have been 
successful.
I understand Ms B complained to at least three other financial businesses about other 
disputed transactions on her accounts that took place around the same time as these one on 
her Barclays account. And at least one of those businesses awarded refunds. But I must 
base my decision on the evidence thats available in this particular case.
The account closures and CIFAS marker
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs accounts allow the bank to close them immediately in 
certain circumstances. I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably when it did so, given the 
activity on the accounts.
I understand Ms Bs account balances were all combined prior to closure  which is standard 
procedure  and this left her owing the bank money, but it suspended collections activity 
while awaiting the outcome of this complaint. Given what Ive already said, Im satisfied the debt is fairly owed and I urge Ms B to contact the bank to arrange a mutually acceptable, 
and affordable, repayment plan. I also urge Barclays to treat Ms B positively and 
sympathetically when handling this matter.
Barclays removed the CIFAS marker in December 2020 but I think, given all the available 
evidence, that it was fairly reported at the time. Ms B may well have experienced difficulty 
opening a new account with another provider, but I cant hold Barclays responsible for the 
decisions made by those other providers. I think £200 compensation is more than generous 
in the circumstances. So far as I know, this money hasnt yet been paid by Barclays, 
because Ms B refused the offer and didnt provide bank details when we asked for them so 
that payment could be made. Barclays has confirmed the offer is still available and if Ms B 
now wishes to accept then she should contact Barclays direct.
In all the circumstances, I cant fairly conclude that Barclays has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman