DRN-2945848
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs K complain about a trust Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited set up to handle 
their joint life assurance policy. They say Aviva gave them incorrect information about what 
the trust could do.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs K had a joint life assurance policy that would pay its proceeds to one of them 
when the other died. Ive heard a call in July 2020 where Mrs K discussed this with Aviva. 
Mrs K seems to have been concerned that if both she and Mr S died soon after each other, 
the proceeds would be taxed as part of their estate. She said shed been told shed be better 
off putting the policy in a trust.
The call taker at Aviva sent Mrs K a form to set up a trust for the policy. There was some 
discussion about whether setting up beneficiaries for the policy would mean the proceeds 
bypassed either Mr S or Mrs K. The call taker said it would, unless Mr S or Mrs K were also 
set up as beneficiaries of the policy. 
Mrs K came away from that call thinking she could set the trust up the way she wanted  if 
Mr S died before her, shed get half the proceeds of the life policy, and the other half would 
go to two relatives. If Mrs K died, or if Mr S and Mrs K died together, the proceeds would just 
go to the same two relatives. 
But when Aviva received the completed forms for setting up the trust from Mr S and Mrs K, 
they realised that wasnt possible. Mr S and Mrs K couldnt be beneficiaries of the trust 
containing their life policy. 
Aviva say they still had to set the trust up, despite the form saying to do so in a way that 
couldnt be achieved. So the policy now belongs to a trust benefiting just the two relatives of 
Mr S and Mrs K. That hadnt been what Mr S and Mrs K wanted, so a complaint followed. 
In response to Mr S and Mrs Ks complaint, Aviva accepted theyd not explained matters 
very well. They offered £300 compensation to Mr S and Mrs K for the inconvenience theyd 
been through. But Aviva said the only way to fix the situation with the trust was to cancel the 
life assurance policy and then set up a new one. And Aviva said they couldnt set up a new 
policy on the same terms as were used to set up the original one. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S and Mrs K came to us. I can see our investigator looked into having 
the policy replaced with a new one that was as similar as possible to what Mr S and Mrs K 
had before all this happened. But Mr S and Mrs K appear to have decided to keep the policy 
and trust as its been set up, even though its not how theyd have chosen to have it. 
On that basis, our investigator said Avivas offer of £300 was enough to recognise the upset 
and frustration Mr S and Mrs K had suffered. He didnt feel they needed to do anything 
further to put things right. 
Mr S and Mrs K still feel Aviva havent offered enough compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them. They also feel Aviva should do more to show they accept 
they made a mistake. The complaint has therefore come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find there has been a failing by Aviva. When Mrs K called in July 2020, 
they should have made it clearer they couldnt set Mr S or Mrs K as beneficiaries of a trust 
holding their life assurance policy. Had they done that, it seems likely Mr S and Mrs K 
wouldnt have filled in the trust form, and the trust wouldnt have been set up as it has. 
To put something like this right, Id usually have the business take steps to put the 
customers accounts and finances in the position they would have been in, if the mistake 
hadnt been made. And if there was an emotional impact from a mistake by a business, Id 
consider what the business could do to acknowledge that.
But Ive noted our investigator looked into putting the policy in this case right, but Mr S and 
Mrs K have decided to leave things as they are. So Im leaving that side of things as it is. 
Instead, my focus is the emotional impact and inconvenience caused in this case. I agree 
some compensation seems appropriate here. I can see Mrs K particularly has spent a lot of 
time and effort trying to get answers from Aviva. And I appreciate she and Mr S have the 
worry that the actions of today may cause problems in the future. 
Identifying an amount of compensation to recognise that impact is a matter of opinion. But 
the £300 offered by the business is in line with the sort of awards Id usually make in cases 
where the financial impact on a customer is limited, and the situation has reached a point 
where the customer is confident about whats going to happen next. 
That seems to fit here. Mr S and Mrs K have accepted the trust the way it is, and will 
hopefully have time to plan for the policy paying to their relatives, rather then either of them 
directly. So Ive decided not to tell Aviva to offer any more compensation in this case. 
That means Im not upholding the complaint. Aviva have done enough to acknowledge the 
mistake they made, and put right its impact for Mr S and Mrs K. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman