DRN-2716069
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way Assetz SME Capital Limited have handled the investment 
she made on its crowdfunding platform. She says this has led to her losing over 50% of the 
original capital she invested. She isnt happy with the steps Assetz took to recover the loan 
once it defaulted.
What happened
Assetz is a peer-to-peer (P2P) loan-based crowdfunding platform which allows investors to 
lend money to prospective borrowers in return for interest payments. An investor agrees to 
lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is looking to borrow, and in return an investor 
receives interest on their loan part. 
Mrs S first invested in a loan on Assetzs platform in March 2014 through Assetz secondary 
market, she made further investments in May, June and July of the same year. At the end of 
September 2014, following a default in repayments, Assetz contacted investors in the loan to 
explain it was seeking a sale or refinance of the loan otherwise it would look to appoint 
receivers. Over the following months Assetz attempted to discuss recovery action and 
repayment of the loan from the borrower without success.  After a lender vote, receivers 
were appointed in April 2015 to recover funds by realising the security held on the property. 
Over the next few months, Assetz encountered further problems in attempting recovery 
action and little progress was made despite involvement of the receivers. Attempts were 
made to gain possession of the property through legal proceedings. In October 2015, a 
possession order was granted but this was appealed by the borrower. The appeal was 
granted, and a judgement was made that a trial was required to consider the concerns and 
allegations raised by the borrower. In December 2015, Assetz explained to lenders that due 
to the process involved it would be six to eight months before the trial commenced. The trial 
date was initially set for the summer of 2016.
In June 2016, Assetz informed lenders that a mediation attempt with the borrower had failed 
and it would await the trial. There were further delays in the legal process and the trial date 
was moved back by the court to between December 2016 and February 2017. In May 2017, 
Assetz updated lenders to say that it was successful in the trial and had been awarded 
possession of the property. There were further delays as the borrower attempted to gain the 
right to appeal but this was finally refused, and all legal avenues exhausted in September 
2017. But there were further delays in gaining possession largely due to the borrower not 
vacating the property and eviction proceedings being required. Possession was eventually 
obtained in November 2017 and the property was put on the market. 
Initially there were several interested parties in the property and an offer of below the asking 
price was made. A further higher offer was made (still below asking price) around February 
2018 but that didnt proceed due to the buyer not providing proof of funds. Assetz informed 
lenders that the condition of the property was poor, and a significant amount of expenditure 
required to make repairs. It said the propertys condition had deteriorated since previous 
valuations were undertaken. Over the following months in spring 2018, no acceptable buyer 
could be found. In April 2018, the property was put up for auction. The property sold at 
auction for £1.5 million  which was significantly less than it was valued at as part of the 
original 2014 loan promotion.
In a lender update in April 2018, Assetz explained that further costs were incurred after the 
previous owner attended the auction and caused a disruption. This prompted a need to have 
the property guarded until the sale completed.  This was a further contribution to the already 
high costs associated with the enforcement of the security on the loan. Assetz told lenders 
that given the security detail, the management time by the receivers, the legal input needed 
both in respect of the trial and receivership, the costs would be substantial and were 
expected to be at least £400,000. It said it would be pursuing the borrower for the shortfall. It 
also said it was unlikely it would be pursuing a professional negligence claim against the 
original valuer. It appreciated lenders concerns about the difference in the original valuation 
and what was achieved at the auction. But it felt the chance of a successful negligence claim 
would be incredibly difficult to achieve. Assetz explained it took this view after the receiver 
reported on the poor condition of the property, issues with the neighbours and those 
encountered during gaining possession impacting on the value.
In May 2018, Assetz informed lenders that approximately £900,000 would be available to 
distribute following the deductions of costs. And any further distributions will be dependent 
on the outcome of its pursuit of the borrower. It did say it considered the merits of a 
professional negligence claim against the original valuer but referred back to its previous 
comments on this. In September 2018, following a lender vote Assetz confirmed further legal 
action against the borrower to try and recover the remaining funds.     
Mrs S complained to Assetz about its handling of the loan. In summary she said:
Assetz failed to handle the default of the loan in the best interests of lenders, 
especially the fact that the security property was allowed to sell at auction for a 
fraction of its previously reported value.
Assetz didnt tell lenders about the critical issue about pursuing the original valuer 
before giving a voting option to cease pursuing the borrower  potentially cutting out 
an obvious and important avenue for recovery.
Assetz appointed the receivers who failed to recognise that property prices in the 
local area have increased significantly in the last five years, which would make initial 
valuation considerably higher as of today, not significantly less as per the marketing.
Assetz were determined to press ahead with the auction, rather than exploring other 
options which may have resulted in a far better outcome for lenders.
Assetz failed to provide full information on the unbelievably high costs associated 
with the recovery of the security. 
Assetz didnt uphold the complaint and Mrs S referred it to our service. Our investigator also 
didnt find in Mrs Ss favour and she asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision on the 
complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021  I didnt uphold the complaint. This is what I 
said:
Firstly, I want to be clear about the parts of this complaint Im considering. I am unable to 
look into or comment on Assetzs actions before the relevant activity became regulated on 1 
April 2014. This means for Mrs Ss initial investment in March 2014, Im unable to consider 
anything she says Assetz ought to have done when promoting the loan. But I can consider 
this for the promotion of the loan for investments she made after the 1 April 2014  as well 
as Assetzs subsequent actions including those after the loan went into default. My decision therefore focusses on events from 1 April 2014 onwards. The starting point is to 
look at what the parties agreed  under the platform agreement entered into by Mrs S. Ive 
also reviewed the loan agreement between Assetz (as the agent of the lending members) 
and the borrower. Ive considered all of the information provided by the parties but have 
concentrated my findings on what I believe to be the crux of complaint. 
Much of this complaint concerns Assetzs actions in relation to the administration of the loan, 
specifically surrounding defaulting the loan and recovery action. In that regard the most 
relevant part of the terms of the agreement between Assetz and Mrs S say:
10.              Administration of Loans
10.5 The Assetz Agent will provide regular information to Lending Members through the 
Website on the status of any Loans made by them, including amounts outstanding, capital 
and interest received, the amounts held in client accounts and any problems experienced 
with collecting amounts due from Borrowers.  Neither the Assetz Agent nor the Trustee will 
be liable for any delay (or any related consequences) in crediting a Lending Member's client 
account with an amount received under a Loan Agreement.
10.6 Subject to paragraph 11 below, each of the Assetz Agent and the Trustee shall have 
discretion in the exercise of any authority vested in it as agent and security trustee 
respectively in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement and the Security 
Documents.
11.              Default Procedures
11.1 If the Assetz Agent becomes aware of a default in the payment of any principal, 
interest or fee payable under any Loan Agreement or if it otherwise receives notification of 
an event of default under the terms of any Loan Agreement, it shall promptly:
(a) notify the relevant Lending Syndicate Members of the relevant circumstances; 
and
(b) put together a suitably qualified default management team comprising a lawyer, 
an insolvency practitioner and any other professional deemed by the Assetz Agent to 
be required, whose task it shall be to produce a report on the default situation and a 
recommended course of action.
11.2 The Assetz Agent shall not implement any of the following proposed courses of action 
without having the consent or deemed consent of the relevant Lending Syndicate Members 
in relation to the proposal:
(a) the commencement of any enforcement action or legal process against a 
Borrower;
(b) the release of any security (save where the relevant Loan has been repaid in full);
(c) the issue of any waiver letter; or
(d) the restructuring of the Loan or security.
11.3 In relation to a proposed course of action, each relevant Lending Syndicate Member 
shall be deemed to have given its consent to such proposal if the Assetz Agent shall have 
arranged a poll of the relevant Lending Syndicate Members on the proposal and it shall have 
been approved by the majority who vote in that poll.
11.9 Calculations made by the Assetz Agent and/or the Trustee of monies due to Lending 
Members will be made available on request by the Lending Member within 14 days of such 
request.  Save as may be specified in any applicable intercreditor or priority document to the contrary, all monies arising from the enforcement of any Security Documents will be paid in 
the following order:
(a) first, to meet any costs incurred in respect of any enforcement action by the 
Trustee and/or the Assetz Agent and/or by any manager, receiver or administrator 
appointed by either of them;
(b) second, to meet the payment of any outstanding fees due to the Trustee and/or 
the Assetz Agent and any brokers or introducers in respect of the relevant Loan;
(c) third, to meet the payment of outstanding interest on the relevant Loan due to 
each Lending Syndicate Member;
(d) fourth, to repay the capital amount of each Loan Unit held by each Lending 
Syndicate Member on a proportional basis by reference to the percentage
the total number of Loan Units held by each Lending Syndicate Member.
I agree with the principle of the point Mrs S makes about Assetz having a duty towards the 
lending members who invest on the platform. Essentially lending members appoint Assetz to 
act as its agent in relation to the loans they invest in. As the lending members agent, Assetz 
is responsible for carrying out the loan and administering it in line with the loan agreement  
which includes any recovery action when loans default. The terms say Assetz should inform 
lenders of any default promptly and keep them updated of the relevant circumstances. It was 
also required to put together a default management team to report on the default situation 
and a recommended course of action. Assetz is also required to gain the consent of lenders 
before taking significant action such as enforcement or legal process against the borrower. 
 
Im satisfied Assetz did keep Mrs S and other lenders up to date with the performance of the 
loan  including when it went into default. It put in place a strategy for recovery that Assetz 
considered would gain the best result for lending members. Unfortunately, there was a 
protracted legal process that delayed and caused further costs. These factors clearly had an 
impact on what was able to be recovered for lenders. But from the information Ive seen, 
these issues were predominately caused by the behaviour of the borrower  which Assetz 
isnt responsible for. Ive reviewed the numerous lender updates that were provided over a 
number of years that started at the outset of the loan falling into payments problems and 
continue through to the possession and eviction legal proceedings. From these updates its 
clear that many challenges were faced during the recovery process, which ultimately hasnt 
led to lenders like Mrs S receiving a full return of their investment. I havent found that 
Assetzs action contributed to any avoidable delays or the length of time it took realise the 
security. And while the costs that were incurred as part of the recovery process were high, 
Im satisfied that it isnt failings caused by Assetz that contributed to excessive costs. 
The information Ive seen indicates that Assetz did allow lending members to vote on agreed 
actions throughout the recovery process. This included the appointment of a receiver - a 
professional insolvency practitioner - to act on behalf of the lenders to realise the security. 
I acknowledge that Mrs S did raise a concern about the nature of the description of the 
lender vote in July 2018  particularly that it didnt provide lenders sufficient information to 
allow them to understand the potential implications of the vote when considering the ability to 
pursue a negligence claim against the original valuer. I will cover the wider point of the 
negligence claim in more detail later in my decision  but I can see that Assetz agreed to 
revise its position and conducted a further lender vote to allow all lenders to consider the 
implications of their vote and the possibility of pursuing the original valuers. While this didnt 
fully satisfy Mrs Ss concerns, it became a moot point as the lender vote result was such that 
it didnt prevent a future claim being pursued. So I dont find Assetz has done anything 
wrong here. And further, that its actions in that regard havent prejudice Mrs Ss position or 
could lead to a loss. 
I appreciate Mrs S believes that Assetz had a duty to protect the interest of lending 
members. And I recognise Assetz had regulatory obligations after 1 April 2014. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching 
requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with. The most relevant 
principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Assetz is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the FCAs Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
Mrs S disagrees that Assetz has fulfilled its obligations to her and other lending members. 
Ive considered the points shes made as part of my findings, but they havent led me to 
reach a decision to uphold the complaint and ask Assetz to do something. Ill explain my 
reasons why.  
Monitoring of property
Mrs S believes that Assetz should have done more to monitor the property in the initial 
stages to protect the value of the security  including checking the property was not being 
occupied and was being maintained in a good condition. She says Assetz failure to do this 
contributed to the reduction in value and the costs and time associated with the recovery of 
the security. With hindsight, I can appreciate why Mrs S feels closer monitoring would have 
meant the opportunity to prevent an escalation of the problems that developed. However, I 
need to consider whether Assetz has acted, or failed to act in a way that that it was required 
to, which caused Mrs S to suffer a loss. 
Ive reviewed the loan agreement. Firstly, I note that this confirms that the agent (in this case 
Assetz) is not obliged to monitor or verify how an advance is used. But the agreement does 
place requirements upon the borrower to keep to certain conditions  such as keeping the 
property in good repair and restrictions around letting and occupation. It appears that the 
borrower didnt keep to all of these requirements  and this in turn contributed to the issues 
that later transpired. But I think it is important to recognise that the loan agreement was a 
contract between the lending members (with Assetz as their agent) and the borrower. It 
wasnt an agreement to set out the Assetzs responsibilities towards the lending members. 
This relationship is set out in the Terms and Conditions for Lending Members that Ive seen 
along with the regulatory obligations both of which Ive described above. I havent seen 
anything within this that suggest Assetz had a monitoring responsibility in the way Mrs S 
describes or would take responsibility for the actions of the borrowers where the terms of the 
loan agreement were broken. During the period between the drawdown of the loan and until 
any payment issues arise, Assetzs role in the running the platform was essentially to 
monitor the payment by borrowers of interest and capital to the trustee for onward payment 
to lending members. Once a payment problem occurs, Assetz role then includes recovery 
action  as described previously.   
While I havent found that Assetz was required to monitor the property in the way Mrs S 
suggests, I also havent found that this has led to any unfairness. I think it is a reasonable expectation that the parties to the contract will abide by them. And without a specific reason 
to question the terms were being followed by the borrower, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect Assetz to be checking in on every piece of security periodically. Except 
in the situation where this is expressly provided for in the relevant agreements  which I 
havent seen to be the case with this loan. Also given how quickly the loan defaulted and the 
borrowers subsequent actions after the default, its unclear how much difference quicker 
action would have made anyway.
  
Based on the circumstances and the terms that set the relationship between Assetz and Mrs 
S when lending on its crowdfunding platform, Im not persuaded that there is sufficient 
evidence to say there were failings by Assetz that contributed to the problems and costs 
incurred in the recovery process.   
Valuations and pursuing a negligence claim  
Mrs S has raised concerns about the value of the property as a security for the loan. As 
some of Mrs Ss investment in this loan happened after 1 April 2014, Assetz did have a 
regulatory responsibility to ensure that any information it provided to promote the loan after 
this time was clear, fair and not misleading for these investments (but as explained earlier 
not for the investment she made prior to this date). And it also needed to be satisfied that by 
approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in the loan, it would be acting in 
its clients best interests. Assetz has confirmed that the original February 2014 credit report 
would have been available to Mrs S as part of the process for investing in the loan via the 
secondary market for her post 1 April 2014 investments. So, Ive considered this in light of 
the comments Mrs S has made about the original valuation.  
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading information within the credit 
report, Assetz would need to carry out reasonable checks of the information within it. The 
credit report provides a valuation of the property and loan to value of 70% based on this. 
Assetz relied on an external valuer who was professionally qualified (as a member of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors) for this information. The credit report also refers to 
a recent valuation conducted on the property a few months earlier by a different surveyor, 
which also supported the same value. Taking the specific circumstances of this loan into 
account, I think the information Assetz received from two independent professionally 
qualified surveyors was sufficient to say it took appropriate steps in its due diligence to 
ensure that the information it provided on the value of the property wasnt misleading. So, I 
find that Assetz made a reasonable decision to rely on an expert to value the property, to 
ensure the credit report was clear, fair and not misleading. But I dont think this means it 
should be held responsible for the actions of the valuer. If there were failings in the valuation 
this would be the responsibility of the valuer (this point is covered later in my decision). Im 
satisfied Assetz has acted in a fair and reasonable way when considering its obligations to 
lending members like Mrs S.  
I appreciate that there is a clear difference between the valuation of the property when 
lending was initiated and what it sold for an auction during the recovery process. Mrs S has 
raised several points about this disparity  including information about house price 
movement in the area during the intervening period. Ive also reviewed the information in the 
updates Assetz provided about the property falling into disrepair, problems with neighbours 
and the impact on the difficulties faced with gaining possession had on the value.  
I understand the point Mrs S makes about even allowing for estimated costs of bringing the 
property back into repair, the value achieved at auction isnt close to the original valuation. 
For the purpose of what I need to decide in this complaint, I dont think it is helpful to 
speculate whether the original valuation was accurate or not. As explained above, I think it 
was reasonable for Assetz to rely on the professional opinion of the valuer when it promoted the loan. There are a number of factors that have been described by Assetz to account for 
how the property was valued during the recovery process  so I dont think its a 
straightforward set of circumstances. It appears to be accepted by everyone that the value of 
the property is only what someone is prepared to pay for it. In this case this was the value 
received at auction. 
In any case, the work to realise the security was undertaken by the receiver that was 
appointed. I dont find that Assetz is responsible for actions of the receiver in this respect  
Ill explain why.  As Ive mentioned, Assetz are agents of the lenders. So where the individual 
lending members (or them collectively) cant take action in relation to the loan, Assetz does 
so for them or on their behalf. In the situation of this loan, an action it took was the 
appointment of the receivers (after a lender vote). Assetz wouldnt have carried out the 
receivers actions themselves (nor would the lending members  such as Mrs S). Assetz 
simply took the decision on behalf of lenders to appoint a professional insolvency practitioner 
to realise the security. 
I havent found that Assetz acted unfairly outside of the terms setting out its responsibilities 
to lending members during this process. It put forward the proposal to appoint receivers to 
lending members explaining it had taken legal advice and gave information on the benefits 
and costs of taking this action - in light of the situation of the loan. I find the decision to 
appoint receivers to handle the release of the security was a reasonable one which was 
approved by a majority lender vote. 
Ive also considered the points Mrs S has made about the value disparity being either 
because the property was sold too cheaply, or it was overvalued in the first place. And if the 
problem was with the initial value, then Assetz should have pursued the original valuers for 
the shortfall under their professional indemnity insurance. She believes this alternative action 
would have resulted in a better outcome for lenders. Assetz says it considered this and didnt 
rule out pursuing a claim, but it updated lenders as to why it didnt think pursuing this option 
was likely to produce a better result at the time. In short, it felt it didnt hold evidence of 
negligence to support a claim. As Ive explained, the terms of Assetzs platform agreement 
gave it discretion in how to act in administering the loans, subject to the specific provisions 
concerning default. Those provisions simply set out that Assetz was obliged to inform 
investors of such an event and gain their consent before pursuing particular courses of 
action. Assetz wasnt obliged under the terms to take a certain route simply because lenders 
preferred it. So, while I understand why Mrs S was in favour of pursuing a negligence claim, 
the fact this wasnt the action taken by Assetz doesnt mean it failed to act in her best 
interest.
Ive also considered whether Assetz has used this discretion in a fair and reasonable way. 
There are a number of reasons why the value of the property could have legitimately been 
higher when it was initially promoted on Assetz platform and yet it was sold for much less at 
auction, none of which mean the initial valuation or the efforts to sell were obviously 
negligent or substandard. Ultimately Assetz has discretion as the lending members agent 
whether to pursue a negligence claim. In order for me to determine that it had done 
something wrong - and to uphold this element of the complaint Id need to conclude it was 
unreasonable for it to decide not to pursue a claim. Im satisfied there is more than enough 
doubt based on the circumstances (and enough costs already accrued) to mean Assetzs 
decision not to pursue a negligence claim was a fair one. Overall, Im not satisfied the 
decision not to pursue a negligence claim is a compelling argument that Assetz has done 
something wrong.
Mrs S responded and provided further submission for me to consider. In summary she said:The provisional decision fails to acknowledge that Assetz, as the lenders agent, had 
a duty to ensure that the property was kept in good and substantial repair and 
condition to their reasonable satisfaction, as set out in 16.2 of the property 
undertakings in the loan agreement. Her view is that Assetz most certainly did have a 
monitoring responsibility.
Assetz did not visit or inspect the property during the term of the loan, therefore it 
would not have been in a position to ensure it was being kept in a suitable condition 
and to their satisfaction in that case. Therefore, it was negligent in not acting as it 
should and in the best interest of lenders. This failing was absolutely critical to the 
losses suffered by lenders when the loan went into default and the security property 
was ultimately sold.
It is incorrect to say her contract with Assetz is created solely via the terms and 
conditions to use the platform. It is explicit in the applicable Assetz terms and 
conditions that by acquiring a loan unit or entering a bid in relation to a loan on the 
platform a lending member agrees to appoint Assetz as their agent to deal with the 
loan and the loan agreement on their behalf. Assetz were acting as agent for lenders, 
so it should be made accountable for its actions (or lack thereof).
Assetz didnt provide any further information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent found reason to change the findings from those set out in my 
provisional findings.
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I havent found reason to 
change the findings from those set out in my provisional findings.
I have again reviewed the loan agreement and acknowledge the undertaking for the 
borrower to keep the property in good and substantial repair and condition to the 
reasonable satisfaction of the Agent.  I also acknowledge that when Mrs S invested in the 
loan  and became a lending member  the terms mean Assetz became her agent in
relation to the loan. Ive noted that Mrs S argues Assetz did have a duty as the lending 
members agent to monitor the property to ensure that it was kept in good repair. And 
because it didnt do this, it was negligent and not acting in lenders best interests causing 
lenders (like herself) losses to their investment. 
Im sorry if Mrs S feels I overlooked or ignored these points in my provisional decision. And
I appreciate her opinion stems from her understanding of Assetzs responsibilities as agent 
for lending members. But I did cover the issues Mrs S raises in my provisional findings. The 
key difference being that I didnt find that Assetz did have the monitoring responsibility that 
Mrs S believes it did. While the loan agreement did put a positive obligation on the borrower 
to maintain the property, I dont agree there was any such obligation on the lender (or Assetz 
as agent) to proactively monitor the condition of the property. I reached this conclusion 
based on all of the available evidence and for the reasons I set out. I dont think the points 
Mrs S raises have given me reason to change my conclusions. 
Mrs S disagrees with my interpretation Assetzs responsibilities towards her as a lending 
member. I remain of the opinion that the terms and conditions for lending members is a key 
piece of evidence to establish what Assetzs responsibilities towards her were. Assetzs did have other obligations -  which includes its regulatory obligations to act with due skill, care 
and diligence, as well as acting in Mrs Ss best interests and treating her fairly. I 
acknowledge Mrs S believes that Assetz didnt properly fulfil its role as the agent for lending 
members for this loan.  But I havent found it is was expressly provided in the loan 
agreement that Assetz would undertake a regularly monitoring role of the development from 
the outset. Overall, I havent found sufficient grounds to say Assetz has failed to meet its 
obligations to Mrs S.    
In conclusion, my findings remain that the nature of investing in peer to peer loans does 
present a risk to lenders that borrowers default and a risk of losses where recovery action 
isnt able to return all capital and interest due. Having reviewed the circumstances of this 
loan and the relevant lender terms and conditions - I dont find that Assetz are responsible 
for the losses Mrs S has incurred. Ive found that Assetz did act in and a fair and reasonable 
way when fulfilling its obligations to Mrs S under the terms of the lending member agreement 
she entered into when she invested on the Assetz platform.
My final decision
I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment for Mrs S, but for the reasons 
set out above  and those in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021. 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman