DRN-4442956
The complaint
Ms S complains that Holyoakes Group Limited consolidated her two pensions into a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) plan, which has now reduced in value. 
Ms S says that the advice to switch the two plans was negligent and she would now like 
Holyoakes to put her back into the position that she wouldve be in, had it not been for their 
advice.
Ms S is being represented by a third party in her complaint.
What happened
In December 2017, Ms S took advice from Holyoakes about her retirement planning needs. 
At the time, she held an occupational defined benefit pension and two workplace defined 
contribution pensions that she wanted to explore transferring. As Holyoakes werent able to 
provide advice on the defined benefit pension, that transfer was considered by another 
advice firm and was ultimately transferred into a new Aegon SIPP.
After assessing Ms Ss circumstances and objectives, the Holyoakes adviser recommended 
that Ms S switch her two defined contribution pension schemes (which I shall call Plan A and 
Plan S) totalling around £58,000, to her existing Aegon SIPP. Holyoakes delayed issuing the 
suitability letter setting out their recommendation until June 2018, when her occupational 
defined benefit pension that was also being transferred, had been completed.
In August 2022, Ms S decided to formally complain to Holyoakes. In summary, her 
representative stated that the switch was unsuitable, namely for several reasons:
That Holyoakes failed to properly understand her financial circumstances.
That her attitude to risk wasnt properly assessed.
That she didnt have the capacity to take risks at the level Holyoakes had claimed.
That the risks of the new solution being recommended were not properly explained.
That she was promised performance in excess of her existing funds.
That Holyoakes failed to consider the higher costs associated with the replacement plan.
After reviewing Ms Ss complaint, Holyoakes concluded that they were satisfied that theyd 
done nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, that having reviewed Ms Ss concerns, 
they felt that they could demonstrate that the switch of the two plans was in her best 
interests.
Ms S, however, was unhappy with Holyoakess response so her representative referred her 
complaint to this service. In summary, they said that Holyoakess advice to switch Ms Ss 
two former workplace pensions was unsuitable and she wouldve been better off leaving the 
monies where they were.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that 
Holyoakes hadnt treated Ms S fairly and didnt think that the switch of the two plans looked 
to be in Ms Ss best interests. 
Holyoakes, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, they said that 
they didnt think that Ms S had suffered a financial loss and asked for more time to look into 
things before responding in full. After chasing the business on several occasions, Hollyoakes 
failed to provide any further response. As the business explained that they didnt agree with 
our Investigators view, the case has come to me to review that outcome. 
After considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision on this case as, whilst I 
explained that I was minded to agree with the Investigators initial view, I wanted to add 
wider context about the upheld decision.
What I said in my provision decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Ms S has done and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here  and thats Ms Ss 
concern that she shouldnt have been advised to move her two defined contribution pension 
schemes. Having carefully considered both sets of submissions, Im upholding Ms Ss 
complaint and its largely for the same reasons that our Investigator has set out. Ill explain 
why below.
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the relevant laws and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) 
and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances. 
The list below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the 
time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Holyoakess actions 
here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).Ive also considered the provisions in COBS 9, which deals with the obligations when giving 
a personal recommendation and assessing suitability. In addition, the regulators checklist 
(published in 2009) for pension switching, which highlighted four key issues it thought should 
be focussed on, have also been considered:
 Charges (has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?) 
 Existing benefits (has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason?)
 Risk (has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded ATR 
and personal circumstances?)
 Ongoing fund management (has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment reviews, but this was not explained, offered or put in place?) 
Ive also considered the regulators pensions related industry alert to firms in 2013, which 
included the following: It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial 
advisers are giving advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without 
assessing the advantages or disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the 
new pension. 
Ive considered the regulators further alert in April 2014 too, which included the following: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Was the original advice to transfer Ms Ss two pensions suitable? 
The regulators guidance above was all issued prior to Holyoakes providing advice in 
2017/18.
When thinking carefully about the guidance that the regulator provided, it meant that 
Holyoakes needed to obtain relevant information about Ms Ss overall profile and, given that 
it considered a pension switch for her, it was also obliged to address the 2009 checklist 
related to her profile, circumstances and objectives at the time. The switch had to be in her 
best interests. It had to be worth the movement away from the two pensions and it should 
have had meaningful prospects of being better for her than the existing two plans  
otherwise there would arguably have been no point in switching and no justification in 
incurring the costs associated with the switching process. It follows from this that a 
comparison should also have been made between Ms Ss two plans and the proposed 
Aegon plan in order to illustrate whether or not the latter was in her best interest. 
Holyoakes provided Ms S with a suitability report that set out the main themes of their 
discussions, along with their recommendation. Her main objectives were noted in the 
suitability report as, in summary: 
You are concerned about how your plans have been performing, especially in times of 
poor investment performance and would like the help of an adviser during these times.You wish to give your funds the opportunity of a better return until you decide to draw on 
them.
You do not feel that there is much flexibility in the existing plans.
You wish to transfer your plans into your new Aegon plan.
Although you do not have a definitive retirement date in place, for the purpose of this 
review, you have agreed to use 67.
You like the idea of having an adviser to provide you with annual reviews.
Having thought about this carefully, Im not convinced that the objectives above, when 
considered against the wider evidence within the file, are strong enough reasons to support 
the recommendation to switch away from the two pensions and into the Aegon plan. Ill 
explain why.
Ive looked at the fact-find that Holyoakes completed at the time of the advice. Im of the view 
that their information gathering process wasnt particularly robust and thats because theres 
large sections of the fact-find document that havent been completed, such as Ms Ss 
income and expenditure along with her assets and liabilities. In shaping my decision, Ive 
also considered the telephone call that our Investigator had with Ms S, where she explained 
her situation in more detail from the time of the interview. She explained that she hadnt 
been in full time employment since 2016 and was only working part-time, earning around 
£300 per month when she met with Holyoakes. She went on to explain that the £50,000 she 
received from her divorce settlement was used in part to repay her debts and the balance 
used to cover two years worth of rent payments in advance on her home. In addition, Ms S 
explained that earlier in 2017, shed been diagnosed with breast cancer.
At the time of her appointment with Holyoakes in December 2017, she didnt have any other 
assets. She also told our Investigator that she doesnt recall declining to provide any 
information to Holyoakess adviser at the time, despite the fact-find suggesting otherwise. At 
the time of Holyoakess advice, Ms S was 48 years old, recently divorced with two 
dependent children and renting her home.
So, taking the above into account, Ive thought about the Regulators checklist:
Charges
Holyoakess adviser explained in the suitability letter to Ms S, that neither the provider of 
Plan A nor Plan S, had provided him with details of the charges associated with both of her 
pensions. He went on to explain that you still wish to proceed with the transfer without this 
comparison because of the reasons listed in your needs and objectives. In addition, as the 
Aegon plan had only recently been set up to accept the transfer of Ms Ss defined benefit 
pension transfer, Holyoakes explained that they didnt have the costs associated with that 
plan either, so no like for like comparison could be undertaken between her existing two 
pensions and the new solution that they were recommending that she switch in to.
As Ive already explained, charges play a very important part when considering whether its 
in the consumers best interest to switch their pension or not. Whilst they cant be viewed in 
isolation, higher costs would generally point towards being a good reason not to move. So, 
that means thered need to be other, more compelling reasons to justify a switch. From what 
Ive seen from the file, Ms Ss existing Plan A had an annual charge of 0.359% p.a. and Plan 
S had a charge of 0.4245% p.a. Following the recommendation, the Aegon plan had a 
platform charge of 0.45% of the fund value, an investment charge of 0.875% p.a. and an ongoing advice fee of 0.75% p.a. That meant that Ms S saw her costs increase on Plan A 
and Plan S by 269% and 212% respectively, ignoring the 0.75% ongoing advice charge.
Whilst in the later part of Holyoakess letter, it explained that a disadvantage of the Aegon 
plan was the potential higher charges in your new plan, but because Holyoakes didnt 
provide Ms S with a like for like comparison of costs in the suitability letter or before 
proceeding with the switch, she wasnt aware to what extent the charges on the new plan 
were higher compared to her two existing pensions. Thats problematic because when firms 
are undertaking switch business, the Regulator expects consumers to be given the costs (in 
pounds and pence) of what theyre currently paying against the new recommendation, so 
theyre placed in a fully informed position before agreeing to commit. Telling a consumer that 
theres a potential for higher costs when charges have doubled isnt enough. Whilst Ms S 
was given an illustration at the point that she signed up, just because she was advised of 
what the new costs were doesnt then make the advice suitable.
The end result meant that Ms S would be paying around an additional £500 each year over 
what she was previously paying with her two existing plans. That meant the new funds would 
need to outperform her existing funds every year to make switching worthwhile. Allied to 
that, to provide the switch advice, Holyoakes also levied a fixed fee of 3.5%, which equated 
to around £2,030. So, any outperformance would also need to make up for the original 
advice costs that Ms S had suffered. 
Existing benefits
In their suitability letter to Ms S, Holyoakes stated: You do not feel that there is much 
flexibility in the existing plans. Holyoakes didnt then go on to explain what they meant by a 
lack of flexibility, although I suspect more likely than not, they were referring to how the 
pensions could be accessed at retirement. Ive looked closely at the features both plans 
offered. Whilst Plan A didnt, Plan S already had flexible access options built into it, so Ms S 
didnt need to transfer to access those features. Therefore, moving from Plan S to the Aegon 
SIPP didnt improve Ms Ss position; it simply put her in the same position that she was 
already in. Also, given that Ms S explained at the time that she wasnt looking to retire for 
around another 20 years, the ability or manner of how to access monies from the pension 
shouldnt have been given such prominence when determining whether to switch or not. As 
she was still well within the accumulation phase of her pension planning, the switch to a 
suitable drawdown solution couldve been made nearer the time, if necessary, to 
accommodate Ms Ss needs at that particular point.
Whilst Holyoakes stated that Ms S was planning to retire at age 67, both of her existing 
plans offered the option to take retirement benefits earlier (from age 55) than the normal 
scheme retirement age of 65. 
In their suitability letter to Ms S, Holyoakes identified that instead of having the normal 25% 
tax-free cash entitlement that most pensions offer at retirement, Plan A had an enhanced 
level of tax-free cash. They went on to say that as of 5 April 2006, you had a protected tax-
free amount of £3,507 in {Plan A} when the fund value was £9,631. As these values arent 
very large, you are happy to transfer as you feel you will benefit from the opportunity of a 
greater return until retirement. It seems to me that Holyoakess explanation of the 
enhancement was confusing, and that Ms S wasnt presented with the full facts here. Whilst 
Holyoakes correctly stated what Ms Ss enhanced tax-free cash entitlement was in 2006, 
they failed to revalue it to the point at which the decision making was taking place. Given the 
value of Plan A in mid-2018 was £46,000, Holyoakess letter failed to explain that her tax-
free cash entitlement at that point was around 30% of the £46,000, so it had grown to around 
£13,800 and wasnt the £3,507 that theyd stated. With around another 20 years worth of 
investment growth available at the time that the advice was given, that additional feature may have become even more valuable at the point that she eventually gave up work, so I 
dont think Holyoakes really spelt out to Ms S what she was giving up.
Within Holyoakess letter to Ms S, they explained that she was concerned about how your 
plans have been performing especially in times of poor investment performance and would 
like the help of an adviser during these times. They then went on to say that was one of the 
reasons why she should transfer her monies away to the Aegon SIPP. However, when 
Holyoakes have undertaken a review of the performance of each of Ms Ss pensions, both of 
the funds within Plan S delivered a return above their sector average over three and five 
years. When Holyoakes looked at the performance of the funds within Plan A, three of the 
six funds didnt have five-year data (presumably because of the age of the fund) and of the 
three that did, two of them delivered performance above the sector average. So, having 
thought about how Holyoakes framed their performance discussion within the suitability letter 
that they sent Ms S, I dont think it was particularly balanced as there was no mention of 
rebalancing the existing fund(s), nor proper acknowledgement that many of her funds had 
delivered a robust performance compared to their sector average. And, it seems to me that 
they were trying to fix a problem that wasnt necessarily there.
Risk
As part of their advice discussions, Holyoakes looked at the level of risk that Ms S was 
prepared to take with her monies. Part of that process involved the completion of an attitude 
to risk questionnaire that resulted in Ms S being classed as a medium risk or balanced 
investor, which I understand Ms S hasnt disputed. I dont intend to repeat Ms Ss responses 
to that risk questionnaire as both parties have a copy of Ms Ss answers and our Investigator 
also shared them in his initial view. Having looked at Ms Ss responses to the questions, 
whilst theres inconsistency between some of the answers about the level of risk that shes 
prepared to take, the balanced outcome doesnt look unreasonable, particularly in light of 
how long she was planning on leaving the monies invested for.
However, whilst Holyoakes broadly established when Ms S wanted to retire, they didnt look 
to understand the level of income that shed need to meet her living standards at retirement. 
That omission is really important, because whilst the suitability report does cover the level of 
risk that Ms S is prepared to take with her monies, its silent on whether she had the capacity 
or even the need to take risks at that level. Ive already explained that Holyoakess fact-
finding and collection of soft facts was limited, and they failed to collect details of Ms Ss 
other investments and liabilities at the time. We do know, however, from the conversation 
that Ms S had with our Investigator recently, that she didnt have any other assets aside from 
Plan A and Plan S and the defined benefit pension that shed also transferred. The fact-find 
is silent on what entitlement to state pension Ms S may have at age 67, but I well suspect 
that she wont receive a full state pension because for many years, she says that she 
worked part-time on a low income. 
Completing a risk questionnaire is only the starting point of the risk discussion. It seems to 
me that Holyoakes placed a significant reliance on the outcome of that questionnaire to 
determine Ms Ss profile. They then failed to tailor the outcome of that questionnaire (that 
could involve either dialing the risk up or down) based on the outcome of her specific wider 
personal circumstances and whether she could afford to take risk  I think this was 
exacerbated by the fact Holyoakes failed to properly undertake a detailed enough fact-find 
thereby making their risk classification unclear. 
Ongoing Fund Management
By Holyoakess own admission, Ms S was an inexperienced investor. However, two of the 
reasons justifying the switch within the suitability letter they sent Ms S were:To give you access to a far wider range of specialist investment options, opportunities 
and fund management groups than are currently available to you from your current plan.
To allow you to benefit from greater investment choice.
Ive looked at Ms Ss two existing pensions, Plan A (which was worth around £46,000 at the 
time of the advice) was invested in six funds but offered a choice of 13 different funds to 
select from. And Plan S (that was worth around £12,000) had 11 different fund options but 
was invested in two funds. Holyoakes then went on to recommend that Ms S spread her 
£58,000 across eight different funds in the new Aegon SIPP, which when combined, had a 
risk score of 5 that was in line with the attitude to risk questionnaire that theyd completed 
with her. 
When I think of the modest size of Ms Ss pensions, I can think of no reason why an 
inexperienced consumer in her position would need access to a wide range of specialist 
investments or a wider investment choice than the collective 24 options that were already on 
offer in her existing defined contribution schemes. In addition to this, I think by 
recommending eight different funds, Holyoakes placed Ms S in a position where she then 
had a greater reliance on the need to take advice than she had previously.
Holyoakes discounted retaining both Plan A and Plan S because it wouldnt allow them to 
provide ongoing advice. More specifically, I think what they meant was neither of the 
providers of Plan A or Plan S would allow adviser charging on the policies. The absence of 
an adviser charging feature on a plan isnt sufficient justification for discounting it, if the plan 
is still suitable for the consumers circumstances.
Given that Ms S was self-employed, working part-time and on a low income at the point 
Holyoakes provided the advice to switch, Im not convinced that Ms S would have really 
benefited from the additional features that the SIPP offered. Thats because, she wasnt in a 
position to add to the investment, her circumstances were straight forward and couldve 
more likely than not have been served by a simple, single managed fund undertaken through 
a fund switch on her existing plans.
Summary
I dont doubt the flexibility, control and potential for greater returns sounded like attractive 
features to Ms S. But Holyoakes wasnt there just to transact what Ms S might have thought 
she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Ms S needed and recommend 
what was in her best interest. With the reasonable performance track record of her existing 
funds, her two defined contribution pensions already matched the aim of Ms Ss retirement 
planning objectives. In contrast, the recommended SIPP compared less favourably in terms 
of cost and the performance drag that would have on the new, more expensive funds. The 
new SIPP wouldve needed to outperform her existing two pensions just to match the future 
benefits that Plan A and Plan S wouldve provided. 
I think, given that Ms S had already transferred the monies in her existing defined benefit 
pension to the Aegon SIPP, the idea of consolidating the two defined contribution plans 
wasnt unreasonable. However, from what Ive seen of Ms Ss circumstances from the time, 
Im not persuaded that moving Plan A and Plan S was in her best interests. At the time of the 
advice, shed gone through a divorce and suffered a serious illness, both of which are 
markers which the regulator would point towards potential consumer vulnerability, which 
therefore warranted an additional layer of care on Holyoakess part which doesnt appear to 
have been acknowledged.I think that Ms S couldve met her objectives by not transferring the two pensions and 
retaining her plans in their existing format. She couldve then continued to benefit from a low-
cost solution. I think, had Holyoakes recommended that Ms S retain those two pensions, she 
wouldve more likely than not followed their advice, given that she was an inexperienced 
consumer who was taking direction from them. Therefore, I dont think that Holyoakess 
recommendation to switch Ms Ss two defined contribution pensions was suitable and 
require them to take the following actions below to put things right for her.
Responses to my provisional decision:
After reviewing my provisional decision, Ms Ss representative responded, explaining that 
they accepted the outcome in full.
Holyoakes responded, explaining that they had undertaken an analysis of the performance 
of Ms Ss new pension, compared to where her monies were invested previously. They went 
on to explain that the calculations theyd undertaken showed that Ms S had been made 
better off financially by moving her monies. They maintained their view, that Ms S had 
received the correct advice to switch her two pensions. They went on to question, given the 
financial gain that Ms S had made, whether it was reasonable to still award her the £300 that 
Id set out in the provisional decision for the inconvenience that shed suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already explained, Ms Ss representative explained that they had nothing further to 
add. Despite their analysis, Holyoakes did not provide any counter submission about why 
the complaint shouldnt be upheld, other than to say that they believed the switch was right 
for her, given that their calculations showed shed made a profit.
Holyoakes provided a range of calculations which, they say, show Ms Ss pension returned a 
gain compared to her previous two plans. At this point I should say that this service does not 
offer a checking service to validate the calculations submitted by businesses. Despite the 
possibility that Ms S may have made a gain, that doesnt alter my thinking about the 
suitability of the recommendations that Holyoakes set out to her.
The £300 that I awarded Ms S in the provisional decision was in recognition of the trouble 
and inconvenience that Holyoakess actions have caused her and as such, I see no reason 
to alter that. Regardless of whether Ms S has benefited from a financial gain, she has still 
lost valuable plan features that cant be reinstated (such as her protected tax-free cash 
which, over the years will become more valuable, and low charges) and Ive not seen 
anything new to persuade me that Holyoakess advice was appropriate for her. 
It therefore follows that I have reached the same decision for the same reasons that I set out 
in my provisional decision. Holyoakes should provide copies of their calculations to Ms S and 
her representative, so that they can satisfy themselves that Holyoakes have correctly applied 
the redress methodology that I originally set out in my provisional decision and which I 
repeat below.Putting things right
Had she received suitable advice, in my view Ms S would more than likely not have stayed 
with her existing providers.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms S as close as possible to 
the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. It is not 
possible to say precisely what she would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set 
out below is fair and reasonable given Ms Ss circumstances and objectives when she 
invested.
What should Holyoakes do?
To compensate Ms S fairly it should:
Compare the performance of Ms S's Aegon SIPP (specifically the defined contribution 
funds she transferred into the plan) with the notional value if those monies had remained 
within the same funds at Plan A and Plan S. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, 
there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Holyoakes should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Holyoakes should pay into Ms S's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Holyoakes is unable to pay the compensation into Ms S's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Ms S wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms S's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Ms S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Ms S would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Holyoakes deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Ms S how much has been taken off. Holyoakes should give Ms S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms S asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Aegon 
pensionStill exists 
and liquidPrevious DC 
funds in Plan A date 
switched to Date of my 
final 8% simple 
per year if and Plan S Aegon plan decision Holyoakes 
have not paid 
any redress 
due within 30 
days of the 
consumer 
accepting the 
final decision
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional value
This is the value of Ms S's investment had it remained within the original Plan A and Plan S 
funds until the end date. Holyoakes should calculate this value.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be 
deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Holyoakes totals all those payments 
and deducts that figure at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms S didnt need to switch her two defined contribution pensions to Aegon and 
therefore, this will place her back in the same position she wouldve been in as if the sale 
had not taken place.
Trouble and upset
Given the inconvenience Holyoakes have caused Ms S, they should pay her £300 for the 
trouble theyve caused to her retirement planning. Whilst the £300 wont recompense her for 
the features (enhanced tax-free cash and low charges) that shes now lost, I feel it does 
recognise the trouble that they have caused her.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ss complaint and I require Holyoakes Group Limited to put things right for her in 
the manner that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman