DRN-3380098
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) continued to charge 
them for their Travel Plus Pack during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
They say that they asked if they could essentially pause paying for the Travel Plus Pack with 
the intention of possibly using it after the pandemic ended. Barclays explained that it had 
withdrawn the pack from sale for new customers so if they removed it they could not 
guarantee that they could add it on at a later date.
They say they should their fees should be refunded for the Travel Plus Pack from the date 
that they asked for the fees to be suspended until when it was removed from their account.
Unhappy with Barclays response, they referred their complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators investigated it but concluded that Barclays hadnt acted unfairly. So, she didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with this outcome and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I note Mr and Mrs M have also mentioned a letter that they received from the lounge pass 
provider. If they are unhappy with the contents of this letter, they would need to direct their 
concerns to the lounge pass provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that Barclays needs to refund any of the monthly pack fees. Let 
me explain why.
I can only ask Barclays to refund the monthly pack fees that Mr and Mrs M paid during the 
pandemic if Barclays made an error or if I thought it had acted unfairly. 
In this case I should highlight that the Travel Plus Pack does not operate like a typical 
insurance policy does. Rather than offering to provide cover for 12 months, it provides cover 
(and some non-insurance benefits) on a monthly rolling basis. Therefore, because Mr and 
Mrs M was not tied into keeping the pack, they were free to cancel it as soon as they felt it 
was no longer good value for money.
I can understand that Mr and Mrs M may not have wanted to do this as Barclays had 
withdrawn the Travel Plus Pack from sale to new customers. But Barclays was entitled to 
remove it from sale and I cant see that the terms and conditions gave an account holder the 
provision to pause have the Travel Plus Pack reinstated at a future date.
So ultimately it was up to Mr and Mrs M to decide whether they wanted to keep it knowing 
they could not use the major benefits during the Covid-19 pandemic or cancel it and take the 
chance that it would be available in the future. I cant say that Barclays did anything wrong in 
relation to this or need to refund fees because of this.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman