DRN-3845934
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) delayed processing a £20,000 
payment he made. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr S wanted to invest £20,000 in a savings bond with a firm that Ill refer to as B. Hed been 
recommended the bond through a financial adviser hed used before. B couldnt accept a 
cheque and so Mr S visited his local Co-op branch on 20 June 2022 to send the money by 
fund transfer. 
Co-op branch staff, including the manager, know Mr S well as he is long standing customer 
of theirs. The manager has explained that a few years prior to this payment being made, 
Mr S was the victim of a scam and lost over £30,000. So, upon considering the approval of 
the £20,000 payment he had concerns and spoke to Mr S about it at the time. After being 
assured the payment was genuine, the manager says he explained to Mr S that the payment 
 once submitted in branch  may still be held by their fraud team. This fraud team would 
then contact Mr S about the payment before processing it. 
The £20,000 payment  after clearing Co-ops fraud team checks - was processed and 
received by B on 23 June 2022. Mr S complained to Co-op about the delay in the payment 
being made, not being kept to up to date about it and having to contact Co-op on several 
occasions to arrange it. Co-op didnt uphold the complaint as they considered theyd 
processed the payment correctly. 
Mr S remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
Investigator didnt think Co-op had acted unfairly and so didnt think they needed to do 
anything further. In short, she said:
She acknowledged Mr S wanted to make a genuine payment from his account and it 
was delayed while Co-ops fraud team tried to contact him. But as it was a high value 
payment for Mr Ss account and it was being made to a new payee, she thought it 
was reasonable for Co-op to consider it as unusual and thereby appropriate for it to 
be flagged by their fraud team.
This is because banks should take reasonable precautions to protect their customers 
from financial harm from fraud or financial abuse. And delaying the processing of the 
payment until theyd been able to speak with Mr S, enabled Co-op to confirm the 
payment was legitimate and that Mr S was not at risk of financial harm. 
Although Mr S has said the fraud team delayed the payment by a week, it took three 
days for it to be processed. And while he also says he didnt receive calls from the 
fraud team, shed listened to a call between Mr S and Co-op in which he explains 
hed missed one from them. 
Shed also seen evidence from Co-op that shows they tried to call Mr S on six 
occasions, including leaving a voicemail. And that theyd also emailed Mr S on 
22 June 2022 asking him to call them regarding the payment.
There were several calls between Mr S and Co-op before the payment was 
processed. This included Co-op querying the payment details Mr S received which 
prompted him to call his adviser to check them before calling back to confirm they 
were correct/genuine  at which point the Co-op agent confirmed the payment had 
been released.
She was satisfied Co-op werent responsible for the delay in the payment being 
processed as theyd tried to call Mr S numerous times by phone (including leaving a 
voicemail) and sent an email. And that theyd acted reasonably by releasing the 
payment once they were satisfied the payment wasnt the result of a scam. 
She noted Mr Ss frustration that, after complaining to Co-op about the matter, he felt 
belittled when they directed him to the Financial Ombudsman if he remained 
dissatisfied with their response. But this was the correct complaint procedure and so 
she thought Co-op had acted fairly.
Mr S disagreed and said, regarding the scam hed previously experienced, he hadnt lost as 
much as the £30,000 the branch manager had referred to. Our Investigator explained that 
this figure was simply the branch managers recollection about Mr S being previously 
scammed. And the amount he recalled Mr S lost had no bearing or relevance on this 
complaint. She only looked at the circumstances around the £20,000 payment and her view 
remained the same. 
Mr S didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, he remained 
of the view that Co-ops fraud team took too long to process the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ss frustration with the delay in his payment being processed. But, for 
similar reasons as our Investigator, I dont think Co-op acted unreasonably when handling 
the payment or that theyre at fault for it taking three days to process. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. But, taking into account the 
law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry practice, 
there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Co-op to take additional steps or 
make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In Mr Ss case, the £20,000 payment was of a high value compared to his typical account 
activity and it was being sent to a new payee. Because of this, I think it was reasonable for 
the payment to have been considered unusual in appearance to Co-op. I therefore think it 
was reasonable for the branch manager  who was familiar with Mr S and knew hed been 
scammed before  to have concerns about the payment and question him about it. This is 
because, sadly, those who have been scammed are sometimes targeted again. 
After the payment was submitted in branch it was held by Co-ops fraud team, as the branch 
manager explained to Mr S that it might be. I likewise consider this intervention was 
appropriate in the circumstances. This is because Co-ops fraud team were best placed to 
speak to Mr M about the legitimacy of the payment given theyre more familiar with the methods used by fraudsters to deceive people. And so, I think they acted appropriately by 
wanting to speak to Mr S - to ensure the payment was genuine and protect him from 
financial harm  before releasing it.
The branch manager put Mr S on notice that their fraud team may contact him about the 
payment. Although Mr S has said he didnt receive any calls about the payment, Im satisfied 
Co-op tried to call Mr S and that they also emailed asking for him to call them about it. So, 
while Mr S may have missed these calls and the email at the time, I think the attempts Co-op 
made to contact Mr S were reasonable. 
There were several calls between Mr S and Co-op before the payment was released. While I 
appreciate Mr Ss annoyance at the time he spent for this to happen, I dont think Co-op 
caused avoidable delays. I think asking Mr S to check the savings bond was legitimate and 
the invoice details he received were correct, were appropriate and proportionate steps to 
help protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. So, I dont think the 
payment taking three days to process (and for B to receive it) was due to unnecessary 
delays on Co-ops part. 
Im aware Mr S disputes that he lost £30,000 to a previous scam. But, while Mr S may be 
correct in that he didnt lose this much money, I dont think the branch managers recollection 
of the sum removes Co-ops responsibility to protect him from the risk of financial harm from 
fraud. Or that it changes my view that Co-op took appropriate steps in this regard  as even 
if Mr S hadnt been scammed before, or scammed to a sum lesser than £30,000, the 
payment wouldve still likely been stopped. I therefore havent considered this further. 
On a final note, Mr S has raised concerns about how Co-op directed him to the Financial 
Ombudsman after they responded to his complaint. But, under the rules that Co-op operate 
set by the Financial Conduct Authority (known as the DISP rules), Co-op are required to 
provide referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman Service. I therefore think Co-op acted 
appropriately in doing so.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr S is hoping for. But, while this was a legitimate payment he 
was trying to make which took longer than he hoped, I think Co-op handled it reasonably and 
didnt cause unnecessary delays. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman