DRN-2286282
The complaint
L complains Haven Insurance Company unfairly cancelled its motor trade policy. 
References to the actions of Haven include those of its agents. 
Ls a limited company. Its been represented for this complaint by its director. For simplicity 
Ive referred to the actions of the representative as being those of L. 
What happened
In April 2020 L took out a Haven motor trader policy through a broker. He had held the same 
Haven policy for the preceding 12 months, although that had been arranged by a different 
broker.  
The policy terms required L to register vehicles to be covered by the policy on the Motor 
Insurance Database (MID). In July 2020 Haven noticed a few cars had been moved on MID 
between Ls policy and a second Haven policy. That second policy was held at the same 
residential and trade address as Ls policy. The insurer also noticed a vehicle R had been 
registered with Ls policy, transferred to the second policy and then reregistered on Ls. 
Haven considered the activity unusual so asked L to explain. Haven says L said the second 
policy was held by its directors wifes company. That company works from the same 
address and performs the same type of motor business. Haven says L said R was a family 
car that both Ls director and his wife need to be insured to drive. 
Soon after Haven decided to cancel Ls policy by issuing seven days notice. It felt vehicles 
were being switched between the two policies outside of the terms of the policy. It says 
vehicles are only to be added to the policy within 24 hours of purchase and sale. 
Before the policy cancelled L complained. At that point L said R hadnt simply been swapped 
between the two policies. Instead it had been sold to Ls directors wife in February 2020. It 
was delivered to her on 1 April 2020 and moved from Ls MID register to hers. After 
mechanical problems were identified R was returned to L for repairs. And as that would take 
more than 14 days, in line with Ls policy, it said R was placed on its MID register on 3 April 
2020.  
Haven feels with that explanation there were still two breaches of the policy terms. It says R 
should have been added to the second policys MID register at the date of purchase in 
February rather than when it was delivered in April. And Haven said that to be in line with the 
policy terms R should have been added to Ls MID register after it had been in its 
possession for 14 days  rather than in anticipation of it being in Ls possession for 14 days. 
So, Haven decided to continue with the cancellation. 
Ls unhappy with the cancellation. Its affected its ability to find insurance and operate as a 
motor trader. Our investigator didnt think Haven had done anything wrong by cancelling the 
cover. L didnt accept the assessment, so the complaint was passed to me. 
Ls made complaint points about the sale of the policy. The sale was the responsibility of a 
broker, not Haven. Accordingly, this decision only concerns Havens decision to cancel the 
policy. Any concerns about its sale would need to be considered in a complaint against the 
broker. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to interfere with Havens decision to cancel Ls policy. 
It seems Haven cancelled the policy as it felt L was making inappropriate use of it. Ive 
considered if that decision was made in line with the terms of the policy  and if it was a fair 
and reasonable one.  
The policy terms say Haven may cancel Ls policy if its general conditions arent complied 
with. One of those conditions is that All vehicles are listed on the Motor Insurers Database 
(MID) within the required time scales as noted in the policy endorsement. It requires L to 
register all permanently owned vehicles and vehicles for sale with 24 hours of purchase. 
Customer vehicles need to be disclosed once the vehicle has been in Ls possession for 
longer than 14 days. 
The policy says directors relatives vehicles are excluded from cover except when they are 
in the care or control of the policyholder for the purpose of repair, service, overhaul, 
maintenance, inspection, testing and so on in line with the policyholders business. It also 
says any vehicle used for social, domestic and pleasure purposes owned by spouses isnt 
covered by the policy. 
Ls given different explanations about R. Its initial explanation was that its a family car that 
both Ls director and wife needed to be insured on. That seems to have been confirmed 
since by L. Ls also said R was re-registered on its policy as the car needed repairing. Im 
not persuaded by that explanation  particularly as L seems to have said when taking out the 
cover that its business is 100% sales based. 
Ive considered everything Ls said about the situation. I accept it may have genuinely 
misunderstood the purpose and terms of the policy. But I can understand why Haven was 
concerned the terms had been breached and the motor trader policy wasnt being used 
appropriately. It seems a vehicle owned and for the non-business use of Ls spouse was 
being insured under the policy. I dont think its decision to cancel was made outside of the 
policy terms nor was it unfair or unreasonable  particularly as other cars had apparently 
been switched between Ls policy and the second policy too. So Im not going to interfere 
with Havens decision to cancel by requiring it to reinstate the policy or do anything.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman