The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with how Capital One (Europe) plc dealt with gambling transactions on 
her credit card.
What happened
In March 2019, a member of Miss Hs family used her credit card on a gambling website 
without her knowledge. As a result, Miss H went over her credit limit, for which she was 
charged interest. When Miss H checked her credit card account in June 2019, she found that 
there were, again, a large number of recent payments to a gambling website. Miss H was 
concerned that she hadnt received any alerts from Capital One that her card was being 
used for gambling transactions or that she was close to and went over her credit limit.
Miss H complained to Capital One and asked for her card to be blocked and a new one 
issued. Capital One replied that it had fraud prevention measures in place but not all 
transactions would necessarily trigger these. The card had also been used at the same 
merchant previously, which meant the system might not have required verification for the 
transaction. It confirmed that the interest charged was correct and that a manager had 
refunded £30 of cash fees as a gesture of goodwill. It also reduced the cash facility on the 
card to £1 meaning that it couldnt be used for gambling transactions in future.
Miss H complained to this service. Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She 
thought that Capital One had acted reasonably in how it dealt with the original complaint. 
However, as it had misadvised Miss H about some pending transactions and couldnt show 
one way or the other that it had sent the alerts, Capital One agreed to pay an additional £50 
compensation.
As Miss H did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that this has been a distressing and upsetting time for Miss H and that she was 
very concerned about the amount of money that she owed on her credit card as a result of 
the gambling transactions. The transactions were made by a family member and, for 
reasons that I entirely understand, Miss H didnt want this to be dealt with as fraud.
The first issue is whether Capital One should have alerted Miss H to the gambling 
transactions. Looking at Miss Hs credit card statements, I can see that there were gambling 
transactions, for a relatively small amount, in January 2019 and in February 2019. In March 
2019, there were multiple gambling transactions to a different gambling company totalling a 
much higher amount. In May 2019, a number of gambling transactions, to the same 
DRN-1562489company as in January and February and for a relatively small amount, were made on the 
account. In June and July 2019, a large number of gambling transactions were made on the 
account, to the same company as in January and February.
I have thought about this carefully. Gambling is a permitted transaction on a credit card and 
it therefore isnt an issue in itself when someone uses their credit card for this purpose. 
Some relatively small gambling transactions were made on the card in January and 
February. I have seen the credit card statement showing the transactions and Miss H 
therefore should have been aware of them, even if only when she received the bill. At that 
point, she could have raised concerns with Capital One about them if she wished to. As she 
didnt do so, I dont think Capital One had any clear reason to think that there was an issue 
with the card being used for gambling transactions, even when the amounts involved 
increased greatly. The transactions were paid off quickly and, without the knowledge of what 
was actually happening  that Miss Hs family member was using the card without her 
permission  I cant see that there was any reason for Capital One to query the transactions. 
On that basis, I dont think Capital One did anything wrong by not alerting Miss H to the 
gambling transactions.
The second issue is Miss Hs concern that she didnt receive any alerts about her balance 
and credit limit. Capital One says that alerts are automatically generated and that, although it 
cant prove this, they would have been sent. Miss H says she didnt receive them.
In January, February and May 2019, the total spend on the account, including the gambling 
transactions, was considerably less than the credit available on the account. The alerts 
therefore wouldnt have been triggered. In March 2019, the transactions on the account 
should have triggered an alert that Miss H was within 10% of the credit limit and also when 
she went over it. Although, given that the transactions were made over a short period of 
time, I cant say with any certainty that the alerts would have been triggered at a time that 
enabled her to take action any quicker than she did.
For the transactions in June and July 2019, although these took Miss H close to her credit 
limit, she wasnt within 10% of it and she didnt go over her credit limit. To explain this slightly 
further, although the total of the transactions on the account did go within 10% of the credit 
limit, the overall amount owed on the account at any one time was never within 10% of the 
overall credit limit, This was because a payment was credited to the account during the 
billing period. As a result, I cant see that the transactions on the account would have 
triggered an alert that Miss H was within 10% of her account limit.
Looking at the impact of not receiving the alert in March 2019, Miss H appears to have been 
aware of the gambling transactions very soon after they were made. She then promptly 
made a large payment to her account which covered the cost of the first batch of 
transactions. More gambling transactions then showed on the account and another payment 
to cover those transactions was credited to the account a few days later. On that basis, I 
think that whether or not Miss H received the alerts, she was aware of the transactions very 
soon after they were made and she was able to make payments to the account. I accept that 
these transactions would have caused Miss H great concern and that it was fortunate that 
she was able to make the payments so promptly, but I cant see that there was any clear 
delay in Miss H becoming aware of the transactions and her then being able to take action. 
I accept that if the alerts werent received and Miss H hadnt checked her account, this could 
have impacted her differently. However, as that didnt happen, Im unable to say what the 
effect would have been. Nonetheless, I can see that Miss H is likely to have had an 
expectation that she would receive these alerts. Im aware that Miss H was also given 
incorrect information on one occasion when she asked Capital One if there were other pending transactions on her account. When our investigator raised this with Capital One, it 
accepted that this was a mistake.
I know that Miss H is also concerned that a credit card could be used where the name on the 
card didnt exactly match the name on the gambling website. I can see why she would think 
this but it isnt uncommon for names not to match. For example, someone might pay for a 
plane or train ticket for someone else or have initials on their credit card but use their full 
name on a particular website. The same principle applies here. If Miss H wants to raise this 
with the gambling website, she would need to do this herself as it is not within the remit of 
this service.
Having thought about this case as a whole, I think the first time Capital One would 
reasonably have been expected to know there was an issue was when Miss H contacted it in 
July 2019. When she raised her concerns Capital One made some changes to Miss Hs 
account so that gambling transactions were no longer allowed. It also refunded £30 of cash 
fees as a gesture of goodwill but said that it wouldnt refund the charges related to going 
over the credit limit. In the circumstances, the gambling transactions were, in effect, 
authorised. They were therefore legitimate charges based on the transactions on the 
account.
Putting things right
As a result of issues raised by our investigator, Capital One agreed to pay an additional £50 
compensation. This was because it couldnt provide evidence that it had sent the balance 
related alerts and for not providing accurate information when Miss H queried if there were 
other pending transactions on the account. I think that is reasonable in the circumstances.
I am very sympathetic to Miss Hs situation and the distress and upset it caused her. 
However, looking at the circumstances of the case, and the additional compensation that 
Capital One has agreed to pay, I dont think it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint about Capital One 
(Europe) plc is partially upheld. This is because it couldnt show evidence that it sent the 
alerts and because of the inaccurate information it gave on pending transactions. As a result, 
I require it to:
Pay the £50 additional compensation that it offered, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman