DRN-3969208
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) declined their 
application to port their mortgage and increase their borrowing.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G were tied into a fixed rate repayment mortgage with Nationwide, with an 
outstanding balance of around £224,000.
Mr and Mrs G decided to move and discussed porting their mortgage and increasing their 
borrowing with Nationwide on 22 February 2022. Following this, they obtained a decision in 
principle on 7 March 2022 which confirmed they could borrow up to £432,500. 
Mr and Mrs G found a property they wished to purchase and submitted their application for 
an additional loan. Their application was assessed by an underwriter, and they were 
informed on 13 May 2022 that Nationwide was only prepared to lend them £324,990. 
Nationwide explained that part of Mr Gs income could not be factored in as his second 
income was on a fixed term contract and the overtime was not guaranteed. Mr and Mrs G 
say Nationwide had previously accepted this income when it offered them their existing 
mortgage, so they didnt understand why it could no longer factor the income in. 
Nationwide didnt change its position, and Mr and Mrs G say they had to obtain a new 
mortgage with a third-party lender on 30 June 2022. Mr and Mrs G are unhappy they lost the 
interest rate that they had with Nationwide and are now paying significantly more for their 
mortgage with the third-party lender.
Mr and Mrs G think Nationwide should compensate them for that and would like Nationwide 
to refund the following:
The early repayment charge (ERC) of £6,095.57.
£11,365.54 in additional interest they will pay to their third-party lender.
£395 for the mortgage broker fee they paid to arrange their new third-party mortgage.
In addition, Mr and Mrs G would like an apology for the stress and inconvenience caused 
and an explanation of Nationwides lending criteria in relation to affordability.
Nationwide looked into Mr and Mrs Gs concerns and explained that a large portion of Mr Gs 
second income was made up of overtime. Because Mr G was on a fixed term contract, its 
lending policy said that this overtime couldnt be taken into consideration as part of its 
affordability calculations. This wasnt considered during Mr and Mrs Gs previous application 
as they borrowed significantly less than they required in their new application. Nationwide 
accepted this should have been explained to Mr and Mrs G sooner than it was, so it offered 
to compensate Mr and Mrs G with £250 for any distress or inconvenience caused. 
Nationwide didnt agree it was responsible for the additional costs Mr and Mrs G say they 
incurred. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept Nationwides response and brought their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into everything, but they thought Nationwide had done 
enough to put things right. As Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy, the complaint was passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why. 
Nationwide has accepted that the decision in principle was keyed incorrectly by its adviser 
and Mr and Mrs G werent responsible for this mistake in anyway. 
Call notes confirm Mr G provided the details of his second income during their initial call with 
Nationwide on 22 February 2022. And it would appear the adviser incorrectly keyed this 
information as permanent work, when it should have been recorded as being on a fixed term 
basis. Nationwide was given enough information in this call to have told Mr and Mrs G the 
overtime from the fixed term job would not be factored in. This would have allowed Mr and 
Mrs G to make an informed decision about what to do next.  
The error was compounded because the second adviser Mr and Mrs G spoke to on 21 and 
22 April 2022 didnt spot the problem either. The adviser was made aware the second job 
was on a fixed term basis and that some of the income related to overtime, so they should 
have been able to inform Mr and Mrs G this income wouldnt be considered, but they didnt.
Following this, an application was submitted on 9 May 2022 and around one week later, on 
17 May 2022, the second adviser informed Mr and Mrs G that they shouldnt have taken the 
overtime into consideration.
At this point, Mr and Mrs G were aware their application wouldnt progress as things stood 
and so they had to decide how they wished to proceed. Mr and Mrs G decided to approach a 
mortgage broker and applied for the mortgage with a third-party lender. Although I can 
appreciate why they did this, having found a home they wanted to purchase, its also 
relevant to acknowledge Mr and Mrs G had other options available to them. 
Mr and Mrs G could have chosen to remain in their existing home for the time being. Or, they 
could have looked for a new property within the new budget they had been given by 
Nationwide. Mr and Mrs G decided to proceed with the purchase of the new property through 
a different lender and that was their choice. So, although I empathise with their situation, and 
acknowledge Nationwide put them in a difficult position, I dont think that means Nationwide 
is responsible for the costs they incurred from the choice they made. 
Mr and Mrs G say that they had already paid for a survey of the property they were 
purchasing and that if they hadnt proceeded they would have lost the cost of that which was 
£690. But theyre now saying they lost out far more and have asked for compensation of 
£17,856.11 in total from Nationwide. The option Mr and Mrs G took was substantially more 
costly than it would have been if they hadnt gone ahead, so I dont think its reasonable to 
expect Nationwide to pay for that. At the time of making their decision, Mr and Mrs G were fully aware they would incur an ERC 
if they proceeded with a different lender. Ultimately, Mr and Mrs G broke their agreement 
with Nationwide when they redeemed their mortgage earlier than planned, and an ERC is 
chargeable in those circumstances. Mr and Mrs G would have had to pay the ERC to 
purchase the home they wanted whether they knew Nationwides lending policy sooner or 
not. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G say they could have secured a lower interest rate elsewhere if 
they had known about Nationwides lending policy sooner. But there was never any 
guarantee their application would be successful, and it was their choice to proceed with a 
higher interest rate elsewhere, and to pay a mortgage broker to find that for them. I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Nationwide to pay the difference just because the decision in 
principle, which was never guaranteed, was keyed incorrectly. Nationwide updated Mr and 
Mrs G as soon as it recognised its mistake, and they had time to back out of the property 
purchase if they wanted to.
I understand Mr and Mrs G also complained about the underwriters email that was 
forwarded to them. They told Nationwide they found it confusing, and this led to further 
distress. Nationwide accepts it would have been better for the adviser to have explained the 
reasons why their application was declined in her own words, and this was factored into the 
compensation offer Nationwides already made. While Ive considered the impact of this, I 
think the main complaint is really that Nationwide should have been able to tell Mr and Mrs G 
the overtime income couldnt be factored in sooner than they did, and the distress caused 
was more in relation to the fact the loan wasnt going to be approved with Nationwide.
Considering everything, I think Nationwide was right to compensate Mr and Mrs G for 
misleading them about how much more they could borrow, but I dont think that makes it 
responsible for the decisions Mr and Mrs G made after that point. I appreciate why Mr and 
Mrs G decided to proceed with a different lender rather than miss out on the property they 
wanted. But Mr and Mrs G still had a number of options available to them, and they decided 
to proceed with the purchase even though they knew it would be more costly to them. 
Nationwides has offered Mr and Mrs G £250 to say sorry for giving them an unrealistic 
expectation and Im satisfied thats reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If Mr and Mrs G now wish to accept Nationwides offer, they should return the attached 
settlement form. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman