The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to make three 
standing order payments they had set up to pay their rent, resulting in them incurring a large 
debt.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs S and Mr S and Nationwide, so there is no need for me to repeat it here 
in any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mrs S and Mr S had a standing order set up on their account with Nationwide to pay their 
monthly rent. In March 2018 Mrs S went online and used her tablet to make changes to the 
standing order. She states that this was only in relation to the amount of the standing order 
and nothing else. But Nationwide say she also made changes to the date of the next 
payment, changing it to July instead of April. As a result Mrs S and Mr Ss rent wasnt paid 
for a period of three months, and it wasnt until well over a year later that the managing 
agent contacted Mrs S and Mr S to tell them they were in arrears of rent.
Mrs S and Mr S would like compensation for all the trouble and upset theyve been put to, as 
they feel Nationwide ought to have made the rent payments under the standing order or 
advised them they were not being paid.
Nationwide didnt think they had done anything wrong, and said Mrs S had completed the 
changes herself online and as such it was not their responsibility that the rent payments 
were not made.
Mrs S and Mr S were unhappy with Nationwides final response and so approached this 
service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the 
complaint, and having done so, came to the conclusion that Nationwide hadnt done 
anything wrong.
Mrs S and Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
DRN-1157316I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Nationwide acted fairly 
and reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Nationwide has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
The evidence here shows that Mrs S accessed their online account on the 19 March 2018. 
She accepts that she did that. The Nationwides system data also shows her logging in with 
her own personal unique identification number. Mrs S accepts she made changes to her 
standing order, but that being only as to the amount. However, the evidence indicates 
otherwise. It shows that the standing order was set up on the 28 September 2012 with the 
first payment being made on the 4 October 2012. In the box marked Subsequent date the 
date of the 4 July 2018 is recorded that being the date the next payment was made after Mrs 
S made her changes.
It is clear therefore that the date was changed, and the issue becomes who changed it. The 
only person who accessed the account on the 19 March 2018 was Mrs S. There is no other 
record of any changes being made by anyone else, and so the only other possible 
explanation is that there was a system error which caused the date to be changed from April 
to July. Nationwide have not reported any systems failure in that regard, and I have no 
evidence that other customers were effected on this day or any other, in a similar fashion to 
Mrs S and Mr S. So, I think it inherently more likely than not, that the cause of the date 
change was when Mrs S logged in on the 19 March. This may have been unintentional or 
inadvertent, but it is more than likely that it occurred then and that Mrs S was the cause. I 
cant therefore attribute any fault to Nationwide, since the cause, and effect, is entirely as a 
result of Mrs Ss actions, although probably accidental.
Ive also considered whether Nationwide should have realised that Mrs Ss rent wasnt being 
paid, and I dont think that it would be reasonable to expect them to have either spotted 
that or even notified Mrs S and Mr S that it had stopped. The reason for that is that first it is 
Mrs S and Mr Ss responsibility to manage their own financial affairs, not for Nationwide to 
do that for them. Secondly, there could be many reasons why a rent payment might not be 
being made, from rent holidays to rent being paid in a different manner  for example cash. 
So, although Mrs S and Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
Nationwide has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman