DRN-3879117
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Original Holloway Friendly Society Limited trading as Holloway 
Friendly unfairly avoided his policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr M had an income protection insurance policy underwritten by the Holloway Friendly. He 
made a claim when he was unable to work due to injury. Holloway Friendly requested Mr Ms 
medical evidence and when it reviewed this, it said he hadnt declared all of his medical 
conditions. It considered this to be a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it 
to avoid the policy. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld because 
Holloway Friendly demonstrated that had it known about Mr Ms full medical history, it never 
would have offered him a policy. 
Mr M doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said he made a clerical error and isnt happy with the way he was treated. He 
says Holloway Friendly could have amended his policy rather than terminate it  he says this 
makes him feel as though he has done something fraudulent. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Holloway Friendly thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he failed to declare his arm injury. 
Ive looked at the application form Mr M completed and which was sent to him to check. I 
dont think Mr M took reasonable care when answering the questions in section 5 which say: 
other than the conditions already covered do you currently have or have ever haddo you 
have a condition. 
Im satisfied that had Holloway Friendly known Mr M had problems with his arm, it wouldnt 
have provided a policy to him. Holloway Friendly has provided its underwriting criteria and a 
retrospective screening to show that it wouldnt have offered a policy to Mr M as the 
maximum number of exclusions it allows is three. His arm injury would have been the fourth 
exclusion and so he would have been declined cover. 
This means Im satisfied that Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Holloway Friendly has said Mr Ms misrepresentation was reckless because Mr M didnt 
declare his arm injury at the point of application and he was aware of it. 
Ive looked at all the actions Holloway Friendly can take in accordance with CIDRA. And Im 
satisfied that it was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this 
means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Holloway Friendly does not have to deal 
with his claim. 
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Holloway Friendly to rely on it to avoid Mr Ms policy produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman