DRN-3476665
The complaint
Mr C complains because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited hasnt given him six months free 
premiums for his private medical insurance policy. 
Mr Cs complaint has been brought to us by a representative. For ease, Ive referred only to 
Mr C throughout this decision but all references to Mr C include his representative, where 
relevant. 
What happened
Mr C held a private medical insurance policy, provided by AXA PPP, for many years. The 
policy ran annually, from 1 September every year. 
In March 2020, AXA PPP authorised an initial private consultation, diagnostics, and a follow-
up appointment for Mr C. In April 2020, Mr C asked AXA PPP to waive his private medical 
insurance premiums because he couldnt access private treatment due to the circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19. 
Mr C didnt renew his policy in September 2020. In October 2020, following a delay by Mr C 
in sending a correctly completed letter of authority to AXA PPP, he was refunded three 
months of the premiums hed paid during the policy year 2019/2020. 
Unhappy, Mr C complained to AXA PPP, before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service. Mr C wants six months of premiums refunded. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said she didnt think AXA PPP 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. Mr C didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs complaint about AXA PPPs failure to pay the claim arising from the treatment 
authorised in March 2020 is the subject of a separate complaint with our service, so I wont 
be commenting on that here. This final decision only relates to Mr Cs complaint about AXA 
PPPs refusal to provide him with six months (rather than three months) free cover. 
I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
Mr Cs policy doesnt guarantee access to private healthcare and AXA PPP doesnt 
own or operate private hospitals. AXA PPP will pay for eligible private medical 
treatment under Mr Cs policy in certain circumstances, but AXA PPP isnt 
responsible for the lack of availability of private hospitals to treat private patients 
during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy dont entitle him to a premium refund if he 
was unable to access private treatment. I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to 
refund premiums if a policyholder cannot access or has delays in accessing private 
treatment for reasons outside of the insurers control. 
While Mr C may have been unable to access private treatment in the 2019/2020 
policy year following the March 2020 authorisation for treatment, this doesnt mean 
Mr C received no benefit from his policy. Mr C had the benefit of cover under his 
policy during the period it was in force so I think AXA PPP was entitled to receive and 
keep Mr Cs premiums under both the terms and conditions of the policy and general 
insurance principles. 
During the period March to August 2020, AXA PPP could have continued to pre-
authorise medical treatment for Mr C to be carried out at a later date (so long as a 
valid policy continued to remain in force). And, AXA PPP also provided enhanced 
benefits to members during Covid-19. These included several remote services as 
well as an NHS cash benefit, payable in certain circumstances. 
Overall, I dont think Mr C was entitled to any free premiums from AXA PPP. But AXA 
PPP refunded Mr C three months of the premiums he paid and has also committed to 
passing back any claims savings to Mr C following an independently overseen 
review. 
For these reasons, I think AXA PPP has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances 
and I wont be directing it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman