DRN-2203196
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mrs R took out the policy in a shop in November 1995.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mrs R completed at the time. There is a 
separate section for PPI with yes and no boxes that could be ticked to either accept or 
decline the PPI. Mrs R has ticked the yes box. She could have ticked the no box or left the 
whole section blank if she hadnt wanted the policy.
 
Mrs R says that, from what she remembers, she was advised to opt for the PPI to ensure 
that she would be accepted for the store card and Ive thought very carefully about this. 
From what we know of such sales, the PPI was usually presented as optional and I havent 
seen any evidence to lead me to conclude that something different happened in this case. 
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Rs recollection of 
events has faded. Looking at the available evidence, I think that Mrs R would have known 
from the wording and layout of the form that the PPI was optional. Overall, it seems to me 
that she probably decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer 
remembers doing so.
The sale took place in a shop and I consider it very unlikely that the staff would have 
provided a personal financial recommendation. Therefore, as a non-advised sale, AXA 
didnt need to ensure that the policy met Mrs Rs needs. But it did need to provide her with 
enough information for her to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the 
policy was right for her.
Mrs R says she would have received at least three months sick pay from her employer. 
However the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mrs R 
would have received full pay for. And she didnt have any other means, such as savings, to 
fall back on. Mrs R has said that her parents would have helped. But presumably asking 
family to pay your debts for you would be a last resort. And other people cant always be 
relied upon as their circumstances can change. Overall, I think that Mrs R had a need for the 
policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. But 
Mrs R wasnt affected by any of those things. As I consider she had an interest in the policy 
and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused her to change 
her mind. So she is no worse off as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong. So 
theres nothing AXA needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman