DRN-3119574
The complaint
Mr N, trustee of trust H has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly rejected two 
cheques that were issued by the trustees.  
What happened
In April 2019, H opened an account with Barclays.
In August 2019, a cheque (cheque No.1) issued by the trustees was presented for payment 
by the payee. It was rejected on the basis that it wasnt signed in accordance with the bank 
mandate.
One of the trustees (Mr F) raised this with Barclays. Its staff said: I have checked our
systems and it looks as though the mandate was not correctly loaded following account 
opening which was why it was rejected .  I have located the original mandate and sent it to 
our relevant team to reload onto our system.
In September 2019, cheque No. 2 (which was the new cheque issued in lieu of the
first cheque) was presented but this too was rejected.
Following this, Mr F complained to the bank. The bank said: .. the initial issue you faced 
was caused due to your mandate not being uploaded correctly following the opening of the 
account. I am aware you spoke to my colleague  who has rectified this issue however 
you still had an issue when presenting another cheque. From my investigation, I believe this 
further error was due to confusion within the processing department..
[Barclays has recently clarified to me that the processing department misunderstood a 
message that was put in relation to the first cheque and that led to the rejection of the 
second cheque, not because of signature mismatch.] 
The bank apologised for this and offered a total compensation of £250 to Mr F.
Then in October 2019 cheque Nos. 3 and 5 were presented and they were rejected, due to 
signature mismatch. On this occasion, Barclays spoke to Mr N who confirmed that the 
cheques were genuine, and they were both then paid.
Following this, in December 2019 cheque Nos. 4 and 7 were presented (these are ones that 
are the subject of the current complaint) and they were rejected, once again due to signature 
mismatch.
On this occasion Barclays tried to contact Mr N at around 11.50 AM on the day. It couldnt 
speak to Mr N and so left a message for him to call before 13.30. Mr N says that he was 
busy in a meeting and so couldnt check the message and call back before 15:00. When he 
did, he was advised that the cheques had already been returned unpaid.  
During the call Mr N was told that the cheques could be represented but that turned out to be 
incorrect advice. It in fact necessitated new cheques to be signed by the trustees and it 
wasnt until mid-January the new cheques were presented and paid.  
Mr N complained that:
Barclays unfairly returned two cheques presented to it in December 2019 on the basis 
that the signatures did not match the mandate. He believed the problem was in fact 
because the bank hadnt still uploaded the right mandate.
He was only given a very short time period to call back Barclays to confirm that the 
cheques were genuine and
When he called, he was incorrectly told that the cheques could be represented, when it 
later turned out not to be the case.
Mr N explained that the two cheques were transfers of his pension from the trust account to 
be invested for him, as the beneficiary, with another company. He says that the delay meant 
he lost personally about £1,000 in interest. He would like Barclays to compensate him for 
this loss.
Barclays said that when a cheque is presented, if there is a concern of potential signature 
mismatch it would be referred to an expert servicing team who would attempt to contact the 
customer to verify the cheque and ensure it is legitimate and that the customer is happy for it 
to be paid. 
It says that was followed here but in this instance the bank was unable to make contact with 
the customer and a voicemail was left. Due to the Bank having to adhere to the cheque 
clearing cycle there are timescales in which referred cheques must be authorised and so if it 
is unable to speak to the customer within these timescales the cheques would have to be 
returned unpaid. So, it says that it followed due process. 
It however acknowledged that Mr N was incorrectly advised initially that the cheques could 
be represented, and in recognition of this mis-leading information it offered Mr N £100.00 
compensation. Later, it said that though the cheque was returned on the same day, the 
funds werent recredited for another 3 days. It said that this meant the trust is due a small 
interest. The bank worked it out to be just under £10 and credited this amount to the trust 
account and offered a further £50 for the inconvenience this matter has caused. 
One of our investigators reviewed the case and eventually concluded that the banks offer is 
fair. Mr N did not agree. He is of the view that these problems continued because the original 
issue with the mandate remained and was never rectified. He reiterates that the time given 
to him to get back on that day in December was too short. He also feels that the banks offer 
of £150 for the inconvenience caused is inadequate. He noted that on the previous occasion, 
the bank had offered £250 to Mr F but on this occasion, for the same issue and despite 
much bigger amount at stake, the bank offered a lower compensation
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I put Mr Ns concern to the bank that the original problem still remained when the 
cheques were presented in December 2019, and that was the reason why the cheques were rejected.
The bank responded to say that though the problem in August 2019 occurred due to 
incorrect mandate, Ms S of the bank identified the issue and reached out to the relevant 
department to request the original mandate to be uploaded to remediate the error. And 
on 18 September 2019, the correct mandate was uploaded, and the mandate issue 
resolved. 
I can see that the final response letter dated 11 November 2019 to Mr F confirmed this. 
Further, I can see from the submissions of internal notes from the bank that the correct 
mandate was in place when the problem occurred in December 2019. 
Taking all of the above into account, I am satisfied that the problem in December 2019 
was not due to the original mandate issue.
Mr N is adamant that there could not have been a signature mismatch as all the trustees 
signed the cheques correctly. I asked the bank whether it had captured the details as to 
whose signature/s didnt match on that occasion. Unfortunately, the bank hadnt captured 
the specific details. So, it is difficult for me to know now whose signature(s) the bank had 
concerns at the time.
Nevertheless, I consider that an assessment of signature variance is subjective. It is a 
judgement call by the relevant staff at the time. Barclays has said that the staff are 
specifically trained in how to review signatures and how to make that call. And I have 
also taken into account that this is done ultimately to try and protect the interests of the 
customer. 
In view of all this, I am unable to conclude that the bank had acted unfairly when it took 
the decision to reject the cheque, based on its assessment.  
Mr N strongly feels that the time given to him to respond was too short. 
My understanding is that the cheque clearing cycle itself is quite tight. The bank has 
explained that it could have simply returned the cheque but it has this referral process in 
place whereby, on a best endeavour basis, it would try to contact its customer (the 
payer) to confirm whether a cheque is genuine before unpaying the item. But there is 
only a limited time available to do this.
I can see that it followed that process on this occasion. I appreciate why Mr N feels that 
the deadline is too short. This is especially as he was away in a meeting and couldnt 
have responded. Whilst that was unfortunate, given the tight deadline and lack of 
confirmation from Mr N, I think the bank couldnt have avoided returning the cheques. 
 
Moving on to the level of compensation offered, Mr N has queried why it is lower than 
that offered on a previous occasion for a similar problem. However, on the earlier 
occasion, as noted above, the right mandate wasnt in place and that was an error on 
part of the bank. 
Whereas here, for the reasons explained, I am not persuaded that there was an error on 
part of the bank except for the incorrect information given to Mr N when he called the 
bank. However, I can see that this was rectified within a few days and he was advised of 
the right procedure. In the circumstances, I consider the banks offer to pay £150 on this occasion is fair and 
reasonable.
Finally, Mr N has asked that the bank compensate him for the loss he suffered due to the 
delay in making the investment he wanted to make. This aspect of this complaint is in his 
personal capacity, as a beneficiary of the trust. So that cannot be considered under this 
complaint which is brought by trustees on behalf of the trust in relation to the operation of 
the trust account. In fact, as a beneficiary of the trust, it is unlikely that he would be 
eligible to complain to us about his personal loss. However, I dont have to make a 
specific finding on it here, as in any case I have concluded that, but for the 
misinformation and small delay in recrediting the amount the bank hadnt made any error 
and in relation to those the banks offer is fair and reasonable
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint and that the banks offer of £150 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
In full and final settlement of this complaint, Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay £150 to Mr N, 
for the inconvenience caused to him in his capacity as the trustee of the trust.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman