DRN-1851530
The complaint
  Mr and Mrs F have complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unreasonably 
refused to pay their travel claim under their travel policy when they had to cancel their 
holiday due the illness of Mrs F.
What happened
  Mr and Mrs F were supposed to go on a 5-week holiday abroad in December 2018. Sadly 
Mrs F a diabetic, had a foot ulcer which was healing too slowly which meant her doctor said 
she shouldnt go on holiday. So Mr and Mrs F cancelled their holiday and as their holiday 
company wouldnt refund them, they made a claim to IPA under their travel which they held 
under their credit card. 
IPA assessed their claim and asked for Mrs Fs medical notes. It decided she had treatment 
for her feet in 2016 and because that was within 2 years of her holiday it meant her foot 
condition was excluded from cover under her travel policy. 
Mr and Mrs F complained but IPA wouldnt change its stance, so they brought their 
complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that Mrs F hadnt had any treatment for her 
feet in 2016 and therefore IPA should pay their claim. 
IPA didnt agree so Mr and Mrs Fs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why.
This policy wont pay claims that are as a result of medical conditions which have been 
treated within the last two years of acquiring the policy or the date of the trip, whichever is 
the later. It defines the exclusion as follows:
Pre-existing medical condition is defined as: any past or current Medical Condition 
that, during the 2 years prior to You applying for Your Card and any Cards on Your 
Account, or prior to any Trip (whichever is the most recent), has given rise to 
symptoms or for which any form of treatment or prescribed medication, medical 
consultation, investigation or follow up/check-up has been required or received; and 
any cardiovascular or circulatory condition (e.g. heart condition, hypertension, blood 
clots, raised cholesterol, stroke, aneurysm) that has occurred at any time prior to You 
applying for Your Card and any Cards on Your Account, or prior to any Trip 
(whichever is the most recent).
Like the investigator, I consider this was clearly laid out in the policy and given it was 
repeated several times, I also consider it was properly brought to the attention of Mr and Mrs 
F. Such exclusions in policies where pre-existing medical conditions are formally notified and 
then underwritten is also very common and therefore I dont consider them to be inherently 
unfair. 
Theres also no dispute given Mrs Fs medical history that she is an insulin dependant 
diabetic, and has been so for many years. Its also sadly well known that long term diabetics 
can develop problems in their extremities like feet and hands which can be troublesome to 
heal and indeed treat.
 
However here, given the condition that caused the cancellation of their holiday, Mrs F needs 
to have had treatment for her feet within two years of when her trip was booked which was 
April 2018 and I dont think she has. IPA relied on a medical note from one of Mrs Fs regular 
diabetes check-ups of November 2016 where it mentioned both her feet and said both were 
at low risk of causing problems. I consider thats frankly good news for a diabetic patient 
and I also consider its standard practice for medical practitioners to examine the feet of a 
diabetic patient. Further I dont find it unusual that such mentioning of her feet being low risk 
is written in any report of such regular check ups as diabetic patients require. I consider low 
risk means low risk in the context of this report coupled with the lack of any further mention 
of her feet.  
Mrs F has told her us she never had foot problems before this ulcer developed in October 
2018, which is also confirmed by her doctor in December 2018.
I dont consider a mention of feet being low risk in a regular report on a diabetic patient to 
be adequate evidence of any such pre-existing condition being having symptoms or for 
which any form of treatment or prescribed medication, medical consultation, investigation or 
follow up/check-up has been required or received. Theres no further mention of any feet 
issues until October 2018 and more importantly her doctor also confirms this to be true. IPA 
hasnt proffered any other evidence to refute her doctors view on this and certainly I 
consider Mrs Fs medical history which I have seen, to show no previous problems with her 
feet. 
 
Therefore I dont consider IPA has reasonably shown that the facts in this claim means Mr 
and Mrs Fs claim is excluded under this exclusion wording. So I consider it should now pay 
Mr and Mrs Fs claim with interest subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, which is limited to a maximum of £7,500 per person.
My final decision
  So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Inter Partner Assistance SA to do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs Fs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date of their claim to the date of the 
reimbursement. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr and Mrs F for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman