DRN-4369386
The complaint
Mrs T complains that items were stolen from the safety deposit box she held with National 
Westminster Bank Plc and that NatWests staff didnt provide the service they should have 
when she identified this.
Mrs T is represented by Mr T but for ease of reference I have referred to Mrs T throughout 
this decision. 
What happened
Mrs T opened a safety deposit box with NatWest in 2004. In 2009, she added further items 
for safe keeping. In 2022, following notification from NatWest that it was closing its safety 
deposit box service, she went to collect her items. She says that when she was given the 
box it was lighter than she expected and there were scratches around the keyhole. When 
she opened the box, she says the majority of her items were missing. Mrs T told the 
NatWest staff who she says were unsympathetic and when she said to contact the police, 
she was told there would be an internal investigation first. However, when she did contact 
the police she was told that the protocol should have been for the bank to keep hold of the 
box and call the police to take in the evidence.
NatWest issued a final response letter dated 13 March 2023. It noted at that time that Mrs T 
was obtaining valuations for the items that were in the safety deposit box at collection and 
the missing items. It said once these had been provided this part of the case would be re-
opened and compensation provided for the missing items. However, since this complaint has 
been raised NatWest has reviewed the complaint, said it shouldnt have been upheld in 
respect to the missing items and that the costs of these wouldnt be covered.
In regard to the service provided when Mrs T collected her safety deposit box, it apologised 
for this and said feedback had been provided. It also accepted that the correct process 
wasnt followed when Mrs T asked to involve the police. Because of this it paid Mrs T a total 
of £400 (£200 for the poor service and £200 for the incorrect process being followed).  
Mrs T referred her complaint to this service. She wants to be refunded for the missing items.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that NatWest was responsible for any missing items from 
the safety deposit box. So, she didnt instruct the bank to cover the current value of the boxs 
contents or any other compensation. She thought that NatWests offer of compensation for 
the level of service provided to Mrs T was fair and reasonable.
Mrs T didnt accept our investigators view. She said the safety deposit box was 
compromised while under the care of NatWest and that there were clear signs it had been 
tampered with. She reiterated that NatWest didnt follow the correct procedure when alerted 
to the issue and that this meant the evidence was compromised and so the police couldnt 
pursue this further. She said NatWest had acknowledged its failings and asked for a 
valuation for the missing items for which it would provide compensation. This was provided 
but NatWest wasnt then forthcoming so the complaint was referred to this service after 
which NatWest said it wasnt upholding this part of the complaint. Mrs T said she had 
suffered a significant financial loss through no fault of her own.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the experience Mrs T had when she went to collect items from her 
safety deposit box. I do not underestimate how upsetting it must have been when she found 
that items she had expected to be in the box were missing. For me to uphold this complaint I 
would need to be satisfied that NatWest had done something wrong or treated Mrs T unfairly 
and then not done enough in response to this. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
contradictory or misleading I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. 
That is, what I consider most likely to have happened given the evidence provided and the 
wider circumstances.
There are two parts to this complaint. The first relates to the missing items. The second is 
about the actions taken and service provided by NatWest when Mrs T alerted it to the 
missing items.
The missing items
Mrs T was provided with a safety deposit box (a locked small blue box) in 2004. She 
accessed this in 2009 and then didnt access it again until 2022 when she says items were 
missing. NatWest has said that its terms and conditions include the term that The Bank has 
not verified the contents of any locked boxes or sealed packages deposited; and can accept 
no responsibility or liability for any loss or damage of these items. While I note this, NatWest 
had a duty of care to Mrs T while looking after her safety deposit box and so I have 
considered whether there is enough evidence to say that NatWest did anything wrong while 
responsible for Mrs Ts safety deposit box.
Looking at the evidence provided there is only one record of the box being accessed 
between 2004 when Mrs T was first provided with the box and 2022 when this issue was 
identified. This happened in 2009 and Mrs T has confirmed she accessed the box at that 
time, and I have nothing to suggest that the correct procedures werent followed. When the 
box was provided to Mrs T in 2022 it was locked. Mrs T has provided photographs of the box 
and there are some marks around the keyhole, but I do not find this is enough to be able to 
say that the box had been accessed. 
Mrs T provided copies to NatWest of photographs and other evidence to show the items that 
were in the safety deposit box at collection as well as the missing items. While I cannot say 
for certain what has happened in this case, had the box been accessed illegally it could be 
considered unusual that only certain items were removed (however I accept that there could 
be explanations for this). We have asked NatWest if there have been any other incidences of 
items missing from safety deposit boxes in the same facility and it has confirmed there 
havent. 
Taking all of the points above into account, on balance, I do not find I have enough evidence 
to say that NatWest is responsible for the missing items.
Service provided by NatWest when Mrs T alerted it to the missing items
When Mrs T was presented with the safety deposit box, she says she knew something was 
wrong. She says the box was lighter than expected and when she opened it she found there 
were items missing. At this point she alerted the NatWest staff to the situation and says they were unsympathetic. I do not find that this is the response we would expect Mrs T to receive 
given she would have been clearly upset by the situation she found herself in. 
Additional to the lack of sympathy, NatWest didnt follow the procedures it should have done 
when Mrs T said to contact the police. NatWest staff have said that they said an internal 
investigation would take place and that Mrs T could contact the police. Mrs T said that the 
NatWest staff refused to call the police as the matter would be investigated internally. There 
are slightly different accounts of what was said at the time, but NatWest acknowledged that it 
didnt follow its procedures as it should have contacted the police at the time of the incident if 
this is what Mrs T wanted.
I understand Mrs Ts comment that by returning home with the safety deposit box the 
evidence was compromised. But I cannot say how the outcome in regard to the missing 
items would have changed had the correct procedures been followed. Therefore, I have 
considered the amount of compensation paid in regard to the poor service that was provided 
both in regard to the treatment of Mrs T and also the information given about contacting the 
police and the upset this has caused. Based on this I find the compensation of £400 that has 
been paid is reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman