DRN-2399746
The complaint
Mrs Gs daughter, Ms G1, complained to Aviva Equity Release UK Limited on behalf of her 
mother about a Flexible Cash Release Plan (a type of equity release mortgage) taken out in 
2000. Ms G1 was unhappy about the amount of the early repayment charge (ERC), and said 
shed been told on the phone in 2016/17 that it would never be more than £40,000 but in 
2020 it was quoted as around £61,000.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked or 
answered.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs G is a consumer, and 
so meets the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. The rules also say 
that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised 
by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mrs Gs daughter - Ms G1 - 
is bringing the complaint on Mrs Gs behalf.
But I must explain that, although Ms G1 is representing her, it is Mrs G who is Avivas 
customer. Ms G1s role is to bring Mrs Gs complaint on her behalf, in the same way that 
other consumers might instruct a solicitor or other professional to represent them in a 
complaint. 
Ms G1 says she spoke to Aviva in 2016/17 and was told the most the ERC could be was 
100% of the original loan. The only call Aviva has logged was one in 2016 when Ms G1 
notified Aviva of the death of her father, who had been a joint mortgage holder with Mrs G. 
Ms G1 has said it wasnt that call but was a later one. Unfortunately, Aviva hasnt a record of 
any later call around that time; the next call it has logged was in 2019 when Ms G1 called to 
discuss her mother potentially moving house.
Ms G1 said I can fully understand why Aviva conveniently have no record of the original 
conversations, why would they want a record of their complete incompetence! Im taking 
from this that Ms G1 is alleging Aviva has tampered with  or withheld  evidence.
Whilst its unfortunate that Aviva has been unable to locate any record of a conversation 
Ms G1 says she had with it in 2016/17 Im satisfied there is nothing untoward in that. This is 
a serious allegation that has been made by Ms G1 and one for which Ive found no evidence 
to support. Without meaning to downplay matters as I understand how important this it to 
Mrs G, a conversation in 2016/17 between Ms G1 and Aviva wouldnt mean the underlying 
legally binding contract that Mrs G entered into in 2000 should be altered to reflect that 
conversation. 
By that I mean, even if there was a record of a call from Ms G1 in 2016/17, and that showed 
she was given mis-information in that she was told the ERC would be no more than £40,000 
that doesnt alter the underlying fact that the ERC can be more than that.
If Ms G1 was given incorrect information by Aviva in 2016/17 this would be a mistaken 
statement of facts; otherwise known as a misrepresentation. When were looking at 
complaints of this type, we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the 
position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We dont put them in 
the position they would be in if it had been correct. Mrs G could never have been in the 
position where her ERC was guaranteed to never be more than £40,000, so we wouldnt 
order Aviva to only charge that amount.
In any event, all that is moot as Im not persuaded that it is more likely than not that Ms G1 
was given incorrect information by Aviva about the ERC in 2016/17. As Mrs G is the one 
bringing the complaint against Aviva, to uphold the complaint Mrs Gs version (or Ms G1s 
version on her behalf) needs to be more likely than Avivas version; not just as likely. And 
having considered everything, on balance I cant say that Mrs Gs version is anything other 
than just as likely.
In response to a request from Ms G1 for details of what the maximum ERC could be Aviva 
sent an email to her in May 2020 and enclosed a table of the maximum the ERC could be 
each year from 2020 until 2028; the ERC period expires in December 2028.
Ms G1 said:
I requested that Aviva illustrate how the movement in the value of gilts would affect the 
repayment charge What you have shown in your table is not the maximum value of the 
repayment charge - you have shown the maximum value of the loan. The repayment 
charge would surely need to be added to the value of the loan (£195K + £66K charge = 
£261K). We therefore believe you continue to misrepresent this product to us and your 
inability to give us a clear illustration compounds the original lack of clarity when the 
product was (mis)sold
But the information in Avivas email was correct, and the amounts shown were the projected 
maximum ERC for each of those years. Thats because the maximum ERC is 100% of the 
loan at that time so if, for example, £195,000 was outstanding on the loan (including interest) 
then the maximum ERC at that time is also £195,000 making a total amount that would have 
to be repaid of £390,000.
When Ms G1 says she was told the maximum ERC was the loan amount, it may be this is 
where any confusion has come in as the maximum ERC is the loan amount. But that isnt the 
original loan amount (ie £40,000), it is the loan amount outstanding at the time of redemption 
(so that is the original loan plus the interest roll-up).In her response to our investigator, Ms G1 said:
I fully understand how the table works and that's why I can't see how Aviva get to a 
maximum early repayment charge of 100% of the current loan as this is not shown on the 
table, see copy attached (Aviva table). If we take year 20 as an example, run your finger 
across to the final column where it shows a 5% fall you will see the early repayment 
charge would be 41.8% of the loan. That's why I am querying where any reference to a 
maximum charge of 100% is coming from.
This table gives the impression (or moreover states explicitly and is the only reference 
material) that a 5% fall is the maximum amount payable. If it is possible for the gilts to fall 
further why haven't they shown it? Or why have they not explained in the many 
opportunities we have given them to do so. In fact nowhere in the whole agreement is it 
mentioned that the early repayment charge can be as much as the current loan in years 
20 + so where do they get this figure from? If this figure is not mentioned in the original 
agreement I don't see how Aviva has any right to impose it, and to do so would be 
demonstrably unfair and unjust practice.
But the three-page ERC table Ms G1 sent us at the start of the complaint (that shed 
received from Aviva in May 2020) answers that. That table covers scenarios up to a 16% fall 
over the full 28 years that the ERC period runs for and shows the ERC would be 100% of the 
loan in year 20 if there was a 9% fall in the gilt yield rate. To be clear, there is no minimum 
amount for the gilts that they cant go below.
The mortgage agreement allows for the ERC not to be levied if the mortgage is being repaid 
because the last surviving borrower had died or had to move into full-time residential care. 
Theres also a provision to move the mortgage from the existing property to another one 
subject to terms (such as the new property being considered suitable security for the loan). 
These types of mortgages arent intended to be repaid for a reason other than those stated 
here, so the ERCs arent an issue for many borrowers as they wont be levied. I understand 
Ms G1 has already discussed with Aviva the possibility of her mother downsizing so Ill leave 
her to pursue that if she wants to.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Aviva is entitled to charge an ERC in line with 
the table if Mrs G redeems this mortgage within the ERC period unless for one of the 
specified reasons whereby the ERC would be waived.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Gs frustration, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 
18 May 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman