DRN-3178720
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains about the decision by Society of Lloyds (SoL) to turn 
down their commercial property insurance claim.
What happened
A property owned by P had a blocked drain. The director of P made a claim under the policy 
for accidental damage. SoL turned down the claim, as it didnt think P had shown that the 
damage had happened suddenly.
Unhappy with SoLs claims decision, the director of P brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought SoLs claims 
decision had been reasonable. 
The director of P didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers the cost of repairing accidental damage to underground sewers and 
drains, and accidental damage to blocked sewers (including the cost of breaking into them 
and making necessary repairs), caused by external and visible means from a single 
identifiable event. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as:
physical damage caused suddenly and accidentally, and not through wear and tear, 
breakdown or malfunction.
Ive looked carefully at the information provided by the drainage company that attended the 
property. They found that blockages were forming in the manhole chamber as waste 
material was catching on its way through. They said the reason for that was because the 
half-channel pipe was out of position due to ground movement. The drainage company 
replaced the internal pipe that was causing the issue and the benching that had moved.
I havent seen anything that would suggest a single identifiable event caused the ground 
movement which led to the half-channel pipe moving suddenly from its original position. I 
think it was therefore reasonable for SoL to say the ground had likely moved over a period of 
time, and therefore so too did the half-channel pipe. 
Consequently, I dont think SoL has acted unfairly by declining Ps claim for accidental 
damage.
Ps representative has referred to some previous decisions issued by this service that he 
thinks supports the claim should be paid. However, we look at each case on its individual 
merits, and our decisions dont set a precedent. Im satisfied here that it was reasonable for 
SoL to conclude that the accidental damage claim didnt meet the policy terms, for the 
reason Ive already explained.
Ps representative thinks the claim could fall under the cover for trace and access. Ive 
therefore also considered this. 
The policy explains that if the buildings are damaged by water escaping from pipes, then 
SoL will pay for the cost of removing and replacing any other parts of the buildings 
necessary to find and repair the source of the leak and making good. 
Buildings is specifically defined in the policy, and includes the main structure of the building 
as well as various other parts of the property. This includes permanently fitted central 
heating/fuel tanks, septic tanks and cesspits. It also includes part of the garden, such as 
patios, paths and drives. However, it doesnt include underground pipes or mains sewers. 
I havent seen any evidence that the buildings were damaged by water escaping from the 
pipe, though Ps representative says that this did happen. Even assuming thats correct, my 
understanding is that the drainage company was able to find the problem in the manhole 
chamber (presumably by lifting the manhole cover), and didnt need to remove or replace 
any parts of the building in order to do so. 
I therefore dont agree that the claim would fall under the trace and access cover.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman