DRN-1891795
The complaint
Mr P complains that Amtrust Europe Limited declined his claim on his travel insurance 
following the theft of his gadgets. 
What happened
Mr P had a travel insurance policy with Amtrust for a trip at the end of 2019. During the trip 
he went on a diving excursion. And while he was on the boat two gadgets were stolen from 
his bag that was stowed in the designated overhead storage. He reported the theft to the 
police and made a claim on his insurance.
Amtrust declined the claim as it said Mr P had left the bag out of his sight, and this was 
excluded under the policy terms. 
Mr P didnt think this was fair. He said the bag was about two metres away from him and to 
his right, so he could see it at all times. He made a complaint to Amtrust.
Amtrust didnt uphold his complaint as it said the bag wasnt in Mr Ps direct line of sight so 
this would be excluded from cover.
Mr Amtrust didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said that she didnt agree it was fair to say the bag was excluded from cover as she felt it 
was in Mr Ps sight. 
Amtrust didnt agree with this. It said Mr P should have taken more care to keep the valuable 
items close to him while he was on the boat. And by leaving them in the storage area on a 
busy boat, he wouldnt be able to keep an eye on the bag at all times. It asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion Amtrust has relied on when declining Mr Ps claim is as follows:
Your gadget is not covered for:
 Where you knowingly leave your gadget somewhere where you cant see it but others
can and it is at risk of being lost, stolen or damaged. For example - in a restaurant or a pub
where you go to the toilet or bar leaving your gadget on a table instead of taking it with you.
I have considered whether Amtrust were fair to apply this exclusion in this case.
Amtrust has said that as Mr P couldnt see his bag at all times when it was in the overhead 
storage, this left it at risk of being stolen. Mr P has provided a diagram of the boat and 
photos of where the bag was stored. From this, I can see the bag was kept above him and to 
his right. So although it wasnt in his direct line of sight, it would have certainly been in his 
peripheral vision at all times. So I dont think it is fair to say it meets the description in the 
exclusion of leaving the items where you cant see it. As he would have easily been able to 
see the bag most of the time.
Further, the second part of the exclusion states and it is at risk of being lost, stolen or 
damaged. So I have also considered whether Mr P would have reasonably realised that he 
was taking a risk by storing his bag where he did. 
The area Mr P stored the bag in was the designated storage area. So was the place that all 
those on the trip had stored their bags. Mr P has explained that during the day he was 
getting in and out of the water to participate in diving. One of the items  a camera- he was 
using while diving while the other item remained in his bag. When this finished, he returned 
the camera to his bag and sat down for the duration of the boat trip. 
Amtrust has said as others stored their bags alongside his, it would have been easy for 
someone to approach the bag without Mr P realising they were interfering with his own 
items. And I can certainly see that this would be possible. However I dont think Mr P took an 
unreasonable risk by storing his bag as he did. He was able to monitor it from his seat and 
as others had also stored their bags there and he was guided to do so by the company, it is 
reasonable to assume it was safe.
Further it is important to consider the context. He was on a trip with a group of between 20 
and 25 people. They were all contained on the boat for the day and no one else would have 
access to the bag in that time. As he had spent the day with that group, and there wasnt a 
way of exiting the boat quickly after a theft took place, I think it would be reasonable for Mr P 
to feel more comfortable to leave his bag in a place that is slightly away from his seat. If this 
had been in a public place, where people could enter and leave the area freely, then I would 
view the risk differently. However in this context, I dont agree Mr P took an unreasonable 
risk.
Mr P has also explained he was wearing a damp wet suit for the duration of the boat journey. 
So I dont think it would be practical for him to keep the items with him or on his lap as he 
was wearing a damp suit. I therefore think it was reasonable for him to store his bag in the 
designated area, close to where he was sat,. And I dont think he took an unreasonable risk 
by doing so. 
For these reasons I dont think Amtrust has acted fairly by applying the exclusion in this 
case. So I will require it to consider Mr Ps claim without applying this exclusion, in line with 
the other policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Amtrust Europe Limited to consider Mr Ps claim 
without applying the exclusion for leaving the items out of sight, inline with the other 
policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman