DRN-1000304
The complaint
Miss G complains that Zenith Insurance plc unfairly avoided her motor insurance policy and 
put a category B marker on her vehicle. 
Miss G is represented in this complaint, but any submissions regarding her position will be 
referenced as being made by Miss G directly.
What happened
Miss G had a motorbike insurance policy with Zenith and made a claim on it when her bike 
was stolen. Miss Gs bike was recovered, but because of damage itd had suffered a 
category B marker was placed on it; meaning it was recorded as not being roadworthy. 
During the claim, Zenith learned that Miss G had been using her bike to travel to different 
places of work. But, when she'd taken her policy out, Miss G had said she was only going to 
be using it to commute to a single place of work. 
Zenith said Miss G should have selected a different option for the use of her bike because of 
that (that being business use). And, if she had done, they wouldn't have offered her a policy. 
Zenith avoided Miss Gs policy because of that, refunded her premiums and said they 
wouldn't deal with the claim. 
Miss G disagreed with the decision to avoid her policy and complained. She also complained 
that the policy had been mis-sold, that Zenith were wrong to have left the category B marker 
on her bike, and to have keep it for scrappage too because they no longer had an insurable 
interest in it. 
Zenith maintained their decision to avoid Miss Gs policy but acknowledged they could have 
told her about their decision to do that sooner. Zenith paid £75 compensation to recognise 
that. But Zenith said they hadn't sold the policy so Miss G would need to raise her concerns 
about the sale of it with the broker that did. Zenith also said that they wouldn't remove the 
category B marker on the bike, because the bike was not roadworthy. But they did agree to 
return Miss Gs bike and began to make arrangements for that to happen. Miss G remained 
unhappy though so brought her complaint here. 
Our investigator thought Miss G should have selected business use when applying for her 
policy too. And said that Zenith had evidenced they wouldn't have offered cover if thatd 
been the case. Our investigator thought Zenith had correctly avoided the policy and refunded 
the premiums because of that, and that they had been fair in their payment of £75 
compensation.  
Our investigator also agreed that Miss G would need to raise her mis-sale concerns with her 
broker. But they didn't think Zenith had acted unfairly in not removing the marker on Miss G's 
bike, because an engineer had classed the bike as such and it wasn't roadworthy. Our 
investigator was also satisfied that Zenith had acted fairly in agreeing to return to bike to 
Miss G. And so, they didn't recommend that the complaint be upheld.Miss G disagreed with those findings. In summary, she reiterated her original concerns, 
raised concerns about the suitability of the engineers that had been used, raised concerns 
about the category of the marker itself, and raised additional concerns about the decision to 
keep that marker on the vehicle. 
So, as no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G has provided detailed submissions in relation to her position and I thank her for 
taking the time to do that. My decision will only focus on those matters I consider central to 
the outcome of this complaint though. And, without being discourteous, it will not address 
every point or argument thats been raised. 
Miss G used a comparison site to obtain a quote for her policy, before calling through to a 
broker to complete the sale of it. The complaint Im deciding here is against Zenith though, 
and they didn't sell Miss Gs policy. So itd be inappropriate of me to consider any mis-sale 
concerns against them. 
I am aware that Miss G has already been told that she should raise her concerns about the 
sale of the policy with that broker though, should she want that matter to be addressed. 
When Miss G took out her policy, she had a responsibility under the Consumer Insurance 
Disclosure and Representations Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. As part of considering whether Miss G failed to do that, one of the things 
Ive looked at is what Miss G was asked when taking that policy out. 
One of the things Miss G was asked related to what shed be using her bike for. And the 
following options were available for her to choose from:
Social only
Social including commuting to a single place of work
Business use (class 1)
Courier use
Fast food delivery
Miss G chose social including commuting to a single place of work. An option where 
commuting was defined as, covers you while commuting to a permanent place of work. 
But the available evidence suggests Miss G used her bike for travelling to different locations 
for work.
Business use was defined as covers the designated riders in connection with their jobs 
(e.g. riding to different sites and prearranged meetings away from the normal place of 
work). So I dont think it was unreasonable of Zenith to conclude that option would have 
been more suited to Miss Gs actual use of the bike. 
Because of that, Im satisfied that Zenith acted reasonably in concluding the information 
Miss G had provided about the use of her bike was incorrect; in other words, there'd been a 
misrepresentation. 
There would need to be a qualifying misrepresentation for Zenith to avoid Miss Gs policy 
though. Meaning Miss G would need to have failed to take reasonable care not to make that misrepresentation. And Zenith would need to have shown that without that misrepresentation 
they wouldn't have offered cover. 
In setting out why she answered as she did, Miss G explained that English is not her first 
language. I acknowledge that, but in my opinion the available options, especially given their  
accompanying definitions, were clear. And so Im not persuaded that I can fairly determine 
Miss G took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Zenith have considered Miss Gs misrepresentation to be accidental (or, in other words, 
careless), and in the circumstances of this case I think that's reasonable. But as Zenith have 
been able to show that they wouldn't have offered a policy on any terms had Miss G chose 
business use, that careless misrepresentation can be considered qualifying. 
CIDRA allows an insurer to avoid a policy and return premiums where theres been a 
qualifying careless misrepresentation. So because of that and the reasons already given 
above, Im not going to interfere with Zeniths avoidance of the policy.
I am aware that Miss G has said a third party on her behalf called Zenith and was told that 
the option Miss G had originally chosen was the right option for her use of the bike. And 
while I appreciate why Miss G may be further frustrated by that, Zenith have shown this 
service that they would not have offered her a policy on any terms. So despite what the third 
party may have been told, based on the available evidence in this case I am satisfied that 
Zenith were entitled to take the action that they did in avoiding the policy. 
Zenith have already acknowledged that they could have told Miss G about their decision to 
avoid her policy sooner, and have paid £75 compensation to recognise that. The nature of 
insurance claims themselves are often the source of some level of inconvenience. And 
given that Miss G was unaware Zenith had decided to avoid her policy for longer than she 
needed to be, I recognise that Miss G's level of inconvenience was likely to have been 
increased because of that. I think Zenith were right to compensate her for that. But 
the amount theyve already awarded is in line with any amount that I would have considered 
appropriate. So I won't be asking them to increase it. 
Miss G has raised a number of different concerns about  Zeniths decision to leave the 
category B marker on her vehicle. And while I won't be addressing each of those 
concerns, overall I'm not persuaded that the marker should be removed and will explain why. 
I've thought about what would have happened had Miss G not mis-represented her position. 
And given her actual use of the bike at the time, I think it likely that she would have sought to 
insure her bike with a different provider had Zenith not offered a policy. 
The circumstances of the bike's theft were such that, I think it reasonable to assume, would 
have occurred even if it had been insured with a different provider. Miss Gs bike was 
determined to be a category B following its theft. And while I'm aware Miss G's said a 
different category should have been used. Looking at the reported damage and the category 
B requirements I'm not persuaded that the bike has been wrongly categorised.
Miss G has also raised concerns about the suitability of the engineers involved in that 
categorisation. But Ive not been provided with any substantive evidence to demonstrate that 
they weren't suitably placed to reach that determination. So, even if Miss G's bike had been 
covered by a different provider at the point it was stolen and later recovered, I think it 
reasonable to assume that it would have still been determined to be a category B. 
Further, if the marker on Miss G's bike was to be removed now as a result of the 
misrepresentation and avoidance of the policy, it would in effect be hiding the fact that it had been determined as not roadworthy. Zenith should have been recording their findings as the 
claim progressed. And I can't hold them responsible for Miss G misrepresenting her position. 
So I think its right that they accurately reflected the condition of the vehicle as determined by 
a suitable engineer. 
It is for those reasons that Im not minded to interfere with Zeniths decision to leave the 
marker on the vehicle. For clarity, I do think Zenith were right to agree to return Miss G's 
bike. But I won't be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman