DRN-3878284
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall) havent treated him fairly when hes 
been trying to arrange to make the final payment on his car finance agreement, so he can 
own the car. 
What happened
Mr S took out a conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall in 2017 for a new car. This was a 
48 months agreement, with 47 monthly payments followed by a final payment of £6,256. 
Mr S made all his payments month by month but had a payment deferral/holiday during the 
Coronavirus pandemic which meant the agreement was extended until December 2021. 
As the end of the agreement approached, Mr S contacted Vauxhall to ask to make the final 
payment in early 2022. During 2022, he was in regular contact with Vauxhall. He made some 
ad hoc payments towards the balance and talked about the fact he was due to get funds 
from his fathers house sale imminently which would be used to pay the rest of the balance 
once they arrived. 
Eventually, in October 2022, when Mr S still owed £4,685.72, Vauxhall passed the debt to 
another firm, who I will call Business A, to recover the debt. Mr S complained to Vauxhall, 
and they issued their final response letter (FRL) on 11 October 2022, not upholding his 
complaint.
They said that any concerns about how Business A were dealing with him would need to be 
raised with Business A, not with them. But they explained that they had delayed taking 
action on the account several times during 2022 when he had promised the funds were 
coming through. After the last of these promises was not met, and they had warned him 
several weeks before that they would need to pass the account to Business A if he didnt 
settle the account, they made the decision to pass the account and debt to Business A to 
recover. 
They confirmed that as per his terms and conditions, any fees incurred as part of that 
process would be charged to him now. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated it and did not uphold it. Mr S had also talked about threats of repossession 
which he felt wasnt allowed without a court order, but the investigator explained that 
Vauxhall hadnt threatened to repossess the car, and if he had concerns with how Business 
A were dealing with his debt now, he would have to raise those concerns separately with 
that business. 
The investigator explained that Vauxhall had been fair in giving Mr S almost a year to come 
up with the funds he owed in December 2021 for the final payment. They had extended his 
deadline several times when he had promised the funds were coming, but ultimately, he 
owed them the money still. And as he hadnt been able to pay the money despite several 
promises, they were entitled to pass that debt to another business to try to collect it. 
Mr S disagreed with this and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a vehicle under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.
Mr S owed the final payment to Vauxhall in December 2021. I dont intend to go through the 
timeline in detail which has been shared previously on the case, but during 2022, Mr S 
promised Vauxhall on at least eight occasions that he was going to make payment and then 
didnt do so. 
In April 2022 he said the house had sold and that the funds would be available within two 
weeks for him to pay the final balance, but this didnt happen. 
In July 2022 he again told Vauxhall that the house sale had gone through, and it would take 
five to six weeks for the transfer of the funds to him and for him to pay the final balance, but 
this didnt happen. In August 2022, Vauxhall issued a letter to Mr S confirming that they had 
begun the process of issuing his account to their third party debt collection company, 
Business A. 
In September 2022, Mr S advised Vauxhall that the funds from the house sale to clear the 
balance would be available by 4 October 2022. When this deadline passed without payment, 
Vauxhall passed the account to Business A. 
I can appreciate that the process of selling a house can take time and sometimes it isnt 
clear exactly when this will complete. But I think Vauxhall have been very flexible with Mr S 
in trying to help him make the final payment by extending deadlines for him. 
Mr S had a four year agreement, with the final payment of £6,256 set out from the beginning. 
It was his responsibility to have decided whether he was going to make that final payment 
and if so, how. The alternative would have been to part exchange or sell the car, to ensure 
that final payment was made to Vauxhall in a timely fashion. 
Mr S has also let us know about some health issues he was having in 2020 and 2021. I was 
sorry to hear about this and can appreciate that this can mean financial plans might have 
needed to change during the term of his agreement. 
But I think that Vauxhall have been more than fair in allowing Mr S numerous opportunities 
to pay the balance that was due, before they took action and passed his account to Business 
A. He promised to make the payment several times during 2022, only to then be unable to 
do so. 
I can also appreciate that Mr S has made ad hoc payments to them during 2022, which 
brough the balance owing down from £6,256 to £4,685.72. But this wasnt a payment plan, or a refinance agreed with Vauxhall. Vauxhall had declined a request to refinance the 
amount owing, and it wouldnt be fair to Vauxhall to expect them to indefinitely allow Mr S to 
delay repaying the agreement while he made occasional ad hoc payments to bring the 
balance down from time to time. The agreement was due to end in December 2021, and 
Vauxhall have been very flexible to Mr Ss requests to extend this well into 2022.
Mr S has complained about the fact that Vauxhall were trying to repossess the car without a 
court order, but Ive seen no evidence of this. Theyve been trying to get payment of the 
debt, not to repossess the car. He also mentioned being unhappy about Business A doing 
the same thing, but as the investigator explained, if he isnt happy with Business A, he needs 
to complain to Business A about that, it doesnt form part of this complaint about Vauxhall.  
Im sorry for the circumstances that Mr S has found himself in, but I am satisfied that 
Vauxhall have treated him fairly. They have given him numerous opportunities to make the 
final payment he owed in December 2021 and have agreed many extensions to the 
deadlines by which he said he would clear the balance owing. I am satisfied that after 
around ten months, it was fair for Vauxhall to pass his account to Business A to try to collect 
the debt, so I wont be asking Vauxhall to do anything more here.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman