DRN-3388063
The complaint
Mr H complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) delayed the transfer of his 
self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP) to another provider resulting in investment 
losses. It then dealt with his complaint about this poorly and failed to respond to him. He 
would like compensation for the investment loss and the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr H wanted to transfer his SIPP with IISL to another provider and he placed instructions for 
the underlying investments to be sold and transferred as cash. Mr H then contacted IISL to 
advise the investments had been sold on 5 May 2021. ISLL uses a third-party administrator 
(called Barnett) for SIPP plans. The investment sale proceeds were received by IISL on 10 
May 2021. On 14 May 2021 Barnett debited the cash balance of the SIPP. On 18 May 2021 
IILS confirmed to Barnett it had sent all cash held to it. Barnett then completed the transfer 
on 25 May 2021 by sending the cash to the new provider by same day bank transfer.
Mr H contacted IISL on 10 June 2021 querying why the transfer payment wasnt made until 
25 May 2021 rather than on 14 May 2021. IISL said Barnett should have made the transfer 
within two working days of the request and referred the issue to its complaints department. 
Mr H asked for an update on 24 June 2021. He said his new pension provider had advised 
the portfolio hed invested in had returned 1.1% between 17 and 26 May 2021. So, the delay 
in making the transfer meant hed lost out on £5,687.47 of investment growth. He said he 
should be compensated for this. 
Mr H asked for an update on 14 July 2021. IISL said it had written to him on 22 June 2021, 
however that was in respect of a separate complaint. Mr H then sent a letter of complaint on 
28 July 2021. IISL sent a final response on 5 October 2021. It said Barnett should have 
issued the payment within five working days once the cash was debited from the SIPP 
account. It said this had actually taken seven working days. It said it had incorrectly advised 
the timeframe was two working days and that it hadnt logged his complaint correctly. It 
apologised and offered £75 for the inconvenience caused but said it didnt compensate for 
hypothetical investment trades. Mr H didnt accept this and didnt bank the cheque for £75.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it and upheld it in 
part. 
Our investigator said Mr H had been inconvenienced by poor service and that IISL had now 
offered to increase the compensation by £25 to £100 in total, which he said was fair. But our 
investigator didnt think IISL had delayed the transfer unreasonably, so wasnt responsible 
for any financial loss. He said IISL had now explained its internal service timeframes for 
processing a transfer out request once funds were available. These were five working days 
for its own processes and five working days for Barnetts, so ten working days in total and 
the transfer was completed within this timeframe. Our investigator said ten working days 
wasnt an unreasonable timeframe and IISL hadnt treated Mr H unfairly.
Mr H disagreed. He said £100 was still inadequate compensation for the inconvenience 
given how much time he spent trying to resolve matters. He said ten working days wasnt an 
acceptable or reasonable timeframe for the transfer to be completed. He said IISL had 
caused a severe delay and its terms and conditions (T&Cs) didnt set out a ten working 
day timeframe but said that it will seek to ensure all transfer requests are completed as 
soon as possible. Which he said should have been 6 May 2021, the day after hed advised 
IISL that the investment portfolio had been liquidated. And a same day bank transfer should 
have been made then, which would have been 13 working days before the transfer was 
completed.
Our investigator said compensation awards made by our service werent based on hourly 
rates but instead reflect the impact the problem has had on the complainant. He said he felt 
the £100 now offered by IISL fairly reflected the inconvenience caused. He said as soon as 
possible in IISLs T&Cs didnt mean instantaneous. He said the transfer didnt take an 
excessive amount of time to complete because the proceeds of the investment sales hadnt 
actually settled in the account until 10 May 2021. He said there was no evidence of either 
IISL or Barnett causing excessive delays in the process. 
Mr H said he didnt consider ten working days was reasonable if the obligation was as soon 
as possible. He said he accepted it didnt equate to instantaneous and had referenced 
same day as an expectation not instantly. 
As Mr H doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint in part, but to be clear to Mr H I dont think IILS 
unreasonably delayed the transfer.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate businesses, 
which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell IILS or other 
businesses to change administrative procedures or impose sanctions on it even if I think 
there have been failings. What I can consider is whether a businesss mistakes caused 
someone a financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience and, if so, what the business 
needs to do to put things right. 
Mr H has referred to IISL T&Cs in respect of transfers out. These dont set out any specific 
timeframes and do, as he says, state that it:
will seek to ensure that all transfer requests are completed as soon as possible
However, the same condition continues:
we shall in no circumstances be liable to you for a failure to complete a transfer out 
request in any given timeframe.
Wordings like this are quite common because there are several components to most pension 
transfers and sometimes third parties are involved so not everything is in the pension 
providers control. When considering a complaint about possible delays in a transfer our 
service looks at each step of the process to establish if there have been any excessive or 
unreasonable delays which are unfair. Here the proceeds of the investment sales didnt 
settle into Mr Hs SIPP account until 10 May 2021, so the transfer couldnt have been 
completed before then.  Once the funds were received by IISL some reconciliation and so forth would have been 
required. IILS uses Barnett as the pension administrator and it is Barnett that requests the 
funds from IILS and then completes the transfer once it has received all funds into its own 
client account. The internal target is five working days for IILS to complete its part of the 
process with a further five working days for Barnett to complete its part of the process, giving 
ten working days overall. I dont think this is an unreasonably long timeframe to complete the 
transfer and it is only an internal target rather than a commitment to the plan holder. 
Mr H thinks this is excessive and some pension providers may process transfers more 
quickly. But Ive not seen any evidence that IILS had indicated how long the transfer would 
take to complete or that Mr H had requested a particular timeframe. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest Mr H queried how the transfer was progressing after hed confirmed the 
investment sales had been made on 5 May 2021, until 10 June 2021, around two weeks 
after it had been completed. I dont think the time taken to complete the transfer was 
unreasonable and as nothing had been promised by IISL, I dont think it treated Mr H unfairly 
in respect of this.   
However, I do think IISL did cause him some inconvenience by giving incorrect responses to 
his post transfer queries and not logging his initial complaint correctly. It has already offered 
to pay £75 compensation for this and then increased this to £100 after the complaint was 
referred to our service. 
Putting things right
I think the £100 IILS has now offered for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H is 
fair in the circumstances of the complaint. I think this level of award is in keeping with what 
our service would make in similar circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part against Interactive Investor Services 
Limited.
I direct Interactive Investor Services Limited to pay Mr H £100 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman