DRN-4462063
The complaint
Miss S complains about Santander UK Plcs level of service when she contacted them about 
her ISA.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 4 November 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 20 November 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind; my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Miss S complains about Santander UK Plcs level of service when she contacted them about
her ISA.
What happened
On 24 March 2023, Miss S called Santander to enquire about opening an e-ISA online. She
says the Santander representative put her on hold several times and kept her waiting for a
long time. Also, he was unclear and, as he gave her incorrect information, she found it
necessary to correct him. And when she tried to complain she was disconnected.
Miss S complained to Santander about the standard of service and the representatives lack
of knowledge. She was also unhappy with being disconnected.
Santander apologised, upheld her complaint and said the level of service shouldve been
better. They offered Miss S £50 compensation, however Miss S considered £200 to be more
appropriate.
Miss S complained to our service.
When considering Miss Ss complaint our investigator considered two additional strands.
These are that Santander:
Failed to follow instructions on when an ISA should be transferred in from another
bank
Incorrectly told her, on 27 March 2023, to contact another bank to make an ISA 
transfer request
However, our investigator thought Santanders offer, which increased to £100 because
Santander accepted that they shouldnt have told her to contact another bank to make an
ISA transfer request, was fair and reasonable.
As Miss S remains dissatisfied and feels the compensation should be £200, this case has
been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding this complaint but increasing the compensation amount.
I first considered the only strand of the complaint that Santander havent accepted. This is
that Santander failed to follow Miss Ss ISA transfer instructions to immediately transfer her
funds. However, because information on file indicates Miss S entered no to the Close 
immediately (and pay any penalty) question, Im satisfied that Santanders action was fair 
and reasonable.
Regarding the other two complaint strands  the level of service Miss S received from
Santander on both the 24 March and 27 March 2023  Santander have apologised and
accepted they made mistakes here. So, whats left for me to decide, is whether the £50
redress they have offered for each of the below standard service calls on these dates is fair
and reasonable.
Assessing compensation isnt an exact science and our approach when making awards for
non-financial loss is detailed on our website and tends to be modest.
However, when considering the information on file, I think Santanders redress offer for the
poor service on 24 March 2023 should be higher. This is because Santander:
Accept their representative struggled and gave incorrect information which made 
acustomer correction necessary.
Say Miss S was on hold excessively and the advisor still could not explain how to 
complete a Cash ISA transfer in electronically.
Confirmed the call was disconnected and Miss S didnt get a call back.
Despite spending a long time on the phone Miss S didnt get the information she was
seeking only to get disconnected. I found that this, together with receiving incorrect
information, caused her more than a minimal amount of frustration and annoyance. Also, Im
persuaded it caused Miss S inconvenience, disappointment and a loss of expectation.
So, I consider £100 compensation to be a more appropriate amount of compensation for the
level of service Miss S received on 24 March 2023.
I also think the redress offer for the 27 March 2023 call should increase to £100. This is
because I found the impact of receiving further misinformation only a few days later to be
high as it added to Miss Ss frustration, disappointment and loss of expectation.
So, having considered all aspects of Miss Ss complaint, my provisional decision is that
Santander should pay Miss S £200.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Miss S £200 less any amounts already paid.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 20 November
2023.Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both Miss S and Santander the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider, before I moved to a final 
decision. 
I didnt receive any further comments or information and both parties indicated acceptance 
of my provisional decision. So, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision, which 
I adopt in full as part of this final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to pay Miss S 
£200 less any amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman