DRN-2166871
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Creation Financial Services Limited told him it administered his 
credit card account. Hes also unhappy its failed to provide him information hes requested 
and wants all over limit fees applied to his account refunded.
What happened
The details of what happened are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised them 
below which reflects the informal nature of this service.
Creation told Mr J it would authorise certain transactions it deemed to be essential 
spending, even if it took his account over the agreed credit limit. 
Mr J asked Creation for a list of all essential transactions itd paid, which had caused 
him to exceed his limit. But Mr J says it didnt provide him with the information, so he 
raised a complaint. 
Creation upheld Mr Js complaint. It acknowledged one of its advisors had given Mr J 
incorrect information. Creation apologised but didnt think it needed to do anything 
more to put things right. Creation said it expected its customers to be aware of their 
available credit limit before making a purchase.
Mr J didnt agree with Creations response, so he brought his complaint to us. Mr J 
said being incorrectly told essential transactions would be paid had caused him to 
suffer anxiety.
Our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld. She said whilst 
Creation had given Mr J incorrect information she didnt think it wouldve had a 
detrimental impact on him running his account. Regarding over limit fees applied to 
his account, our investigator said Creation had explained to Mr J how theyd been 
incurred when hed complained previously and didnt think Creation needed to do 
anything further.
Mr J doesnt agree so this complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons: 
Firstly, its important to say Mr J has complained to our service previously about the 
over limit fees applied to his account and how they were incurred. Since issuing our 
decision Mr J hasnt been charged any further fees. So, I wont be commenting 
further on this matter.
When speaking to Creation in August 2018, Mr J was given incorrect information by 
one of its advisors. This isnt in dispute. Creation has acknowledged this and 
apologised to Mr J.
Ultimately, its the responsibility of the cardholder to manage their spending on a 
credit card.
I understand Mr J says Creations error caused him to feel anxious. Ive given a lot of 
thought to this, but Im satisfied in any case Mr J would have needed to monitor his 
account carefully.
I say this because Mr J was aware there were circumstances when transactions 
couldve been approved despite causing him to exceed his limit. Creation explained 
as to when this could happen when he complained to it about fees he incurred in the 
past. So, I think its reasonable he took steps to monitor his spending and to be 
aware of the credit available to him.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied Creation have acted fairly and 
reasonably by apologising for its error. But Mr J didnt exceed his credit limit again 
after the phone call in question and incurred no further fees, so I dont think Creation 
need to do anymore. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Creation Financial Services 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman