DRN-2527510
The complaint
Mrs D complains about advice she received from Hamilton Rose Wealth Management 
Limited in February 2016. She was advised to switch personal pension plans she held to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) plan.
What happened
Mrs D took advice in 2016. She worked in education and was a member of her occupational 
pension scheme. She was 55 and intended to retire at 65. She held two existing personal 
pensions with a combined value of £23,170.48. The plans were invested in managed and 
With-Profits funds.
She met with an adviser from Hamilton Rose who assessed Mrs Ds attitude to investment 
risk as High Medium Risk or six on a scale from one to ten. But it was noted that her 
preference was to invest at a lower level of risk, four out of ten.
The adviser recommended switching the plans to a SIPP for improved potential investment
returns. Once the plans were moved, then a discretionary fund manager would be appointed 
to implement the investments.
The expectation was that the funds would be divided equally between two investment 
portfolios with the same provider. One was a cautious investment fund and the second was 
a balanced investment fund.
Hamilton Rose would receive an ongoing adviser charge of 0.75% per year. Other costs 
included the SIPP platform, 0.3%, the discretionary fund manager, 0.35%, and the fund 
charges, 0.75%. So, a total of 2.15%.
This compared to the existing average cost of the personal pensions of 0.88% per
year.
Mrs D also had to pay an initial adviser charge at a flat fee of £995 (this represents 4.3% of 
the transfer value for the personal pensions).
Mrs D accepted the advice and the transfer was completed.
Mrs D complained to Hamilton Rose but it didnt uphold the complaint and so it was referred 
to this service.
An investigator considered the complaint and decided that it should be upheld. He wasnt 
satisfied that the advice was suitable and explained why. He set out how redress should be 
calculated.
In summary, he said:
The costs of the new pension arrangement were much higher.
For Mrs D to be better off, she would need the new investments to consistently 
outperform the existing plan by 2.5 to 3% per year. 
Given the risk profile of 4/10, additional returns at this level were unlikely.
Mrs D could have arranged fund switches to higher risk funds within the existing 
plans if she had wished, without the additional costs.
Mrs D had a history of investing with a cautious or balanced level of risk and with less 
than 10 years to retirement, it would be unusual to take increased risk.
There was no evidence that the new funds had consistently outperformed the 
existing funds.
The new funds had only been established for less than one year before the 
recommendation was made.
The investigator said the recommendation wasnt suitable and was unnecessary as it 
incurred additional charges without the prospect of substantial benefits. With suitable advice, 
Hamilton Rose ought to have advised Mrs D to retain her existing personal pension, with a 
view to considering possible fund switches if appropriate.
Mrs D accepted that view but Hamilton Rose disagreed. It said that Mrs D had received 
appropriate advice. It didnt directly challenge any of the investigators specific conclusions.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with his reasoning. I uphold this complaint.
Mrs D had been a member of her OPS for only around three years, so I think the personal 
pension wouldve been a significant and important part of her retirement savings. The 
importance of it may have diminished over time to a degree, particularly if she were to work 
to 65, but I agree that it would retain importance and wasnt something that Mrs D would 
wish to, or had capacity to, take unnecessary risks with.
Mrs D wasnt looking to make a withdrawal from her pension plans, even though she was at 
an age where she could have looked to do so. It seems that she wished to invest and save 
for the future. There was nothing fundamentally wrong with existing personal pension plans 
which meant that she needed to move to a SIPP. Theres no compelling case to say that she 
needed any greater flexibility. She could have kept the personal pension plan and changed 
the funds internally if she had wished.
Hamilton Rose had to give advice that was suitable and in Mrs Ds best interest. A switch 
like this could be justified if there was a realistic expectation that Mrs D would be better off in 
retirement. But she was faced with an immediate charge of £995, over 4% of her funds. This 
would have to be recouped over ten years just for her to break even. In addition, there was a 
significant increase in annual charges, these were up to 2.15% instead of 0.88%. Its not 
clear how it was considered likely that she would achieve the increased return necessary 
without taking a level of risk beyond her risk profile. Its also unclear how the recommended 
funds were chosen and considered likely to achieve the returns necessary. The new 
investments had no track record, and certainly no established track record of performing at 
the levels necessary for Mrs D to be better off in retirement.I agree with the investigator. Im not satisfied that the advice to switch was suitable for Mrs 
D. I think that with suitable advice she would probably have remained invested in the existing 
personal pension funds.
Putting things right
The aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mrs D back into the position she would 
probably have been in, had it not been for Hamilton Roses error. I think this would have 
meant she remained invested in the existing managed and With-Profits funds.
Ideally, any loss Mrs D has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of 
the pension from the relevant provider on the basis that it had remained invested in those 
funds. The actual current value of the SIPP should be subtracted from this notional value. If 
the current value of the SIPP is higher than the notional value, then there is no loss and no 
redress is payable. 
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mrs Ds pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs D as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mrs D hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free
and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement 
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Im satisfied that the notional value approach set out above is the fairest way of resolving this 
complaint. However, if the provider cant calculate a notional value, then a benchmark 
should be used to assess the notional value.
Mrs D wanted capital growth with a relatively small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs Ds risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, a 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs D into that position. It doesnt mean that she 
would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in an index 
tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mrs D could have obtained from investment suited to her 
objective and risk attitude.
For the avoidance of doubt, this benchmark should only be used if a notional value of the 
investment cannot be obtained for the original funds.
In addition, Hamilton Rose must pay Mrs D £200 for the upset and inconvenience caused by
the unnecessary pension switch and the impact this has had on her retirement planning.Hamilton Rose must provide the details of the calculation to Mrs D in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Hamilton Rose Wealth Management Limited must calculate and pay 
redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman