DRN-3466370
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt do enough to contact him before it 
cancelled his motor insurance policy. He wants it to remove records of the cancellation.
What happened
Mr M took out a policy with AXA and he was asked to provide proof of his No Claims 
Discount (NCD) entitlement, This wasnt provided, so AXA sent him a seven days notice of 
cancellation by email and then cancelled the policy. Mr M said he became aware of this 
when he received a refund of premium. 
AXA said it had correctly cancelled the policy as it hadnt received the required information. 
But Mr M said the emails had gone into his spam folder and so he hadnt seen them. He 
thought AXA should have done more to contact him about the missing NCD proof. Mr M then 
took out another policy with AXA.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought AXA 
should have done more to contact Mr M before it cancelled his policy. She thought it should 
have used two means of communication, such as email and SMS. She thought Mr M would 
then most likely have provided the NCD proof. And so she thought AXA had unfairly 
cancelled the policy. To put things right, she thought AXA should remove any records of the 
cancellation and amend Mr Ms current policy.  
AXA replied that it thought the policy had been correctly cancelled and Mr M would need to 
declare this to future insurers. It offered to provide a letter of explanation for the cancellation. 
It also said that it had allowed Mr M to take out a new policy without declaring the 
cancellation and this policy was cheaper than his previous one. AXA asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that AXA is entitled by the policys terms and conditions to cancel a policy if 
requested documentation, such as proof of NCD entitlement, isnt provided. So I think that 
AXA could usually rely on this term to cancel a policy. But I dont think that this would be fair 
and reasonable in Mr Ms particular circumstances. Ill now explain why I think this. 
AXA said it had asked Mr M to provide the NCD proof when he took out his policy over the 
phone. But, as this was Mr Ms first policy with a full licence, I can understand that he may 
have overlooked this. And so AXA started the cancellation process, prompting Mr M to 
provide his NCD proof.
As the Investigator has already explained, this service believes that insurers should take 
reasonable steps to ensure that policy holders are told that their policy has been cancelled 
as this will have serious consequences for them and expose them to possible court action. 
One way of doing this is to provide notifications of cancellation by more than one means. 
AXA said that its usual process to provide notifications of cancellation was by email and 
SMS text. But this didnt happen on this occasion and it sent the notifications by email only. 
Unfortunately, the emails ended up in Mr Ms spam folder and he didnt see them. I cant 
reasonably hold AXA responsible for this as it had sent the emails to the correct address and 
it wasnt responsible for Mr Ms email settings. 
But I think that if AXA had also sent Mr M its notification by another means, such as an SMS 
text, then he would have responded to its request. He did this immediately he was told the 
reason for the cancellation. So I think Mr M had the required document and would have sent 
it to AXA if he had been reasonably notified that it was required. 
So I think AXA unfairly cancelled Mr Ms policy. AXA said the cancellation isnt recorded on 
any external databases. But it said that Mr M needs to declare it to future insurers if asked 
and it declined to confirm that he need not do this. 
However, as I think the policy was unfairly cancelled by AXA, then Mr M doesnt need to 
declare it, and AXA should remove the cancellation from its own records. If AXA is unable to 
do this, as it says, then I think it should add a note to its system explaining that the policy 
was cancelled in error. 
AXA said Mr Ms current policy already takes into account that no cancellation should have 
been declared. So I think that reasonably restores Mr Ms position. AXA offered to provide 
Mr M with a letter explaining how the cancellation occurred. But I think that it would give Mr 
M reassurance if it provided him with a letter explaining that the cancellation was made in 
error and he need not declare it to future insurers.
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to remove any records of the cancellation of Mr Ms policy 
from its systems or add a note explaining that the cancellation was made in error. And I 
require AXA to provide Mr M with a letter explaining that the cancellation was made in error 
and he need not declare it to future insurers. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman