DRN-3999801
The complaint
Miss C complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled and 
settled a claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss C was involved in a collision with another driver in March 2020. RSA then treated the 
claim as non-fault. But it settled the claim as split liability in October 2021. The claim was 
closed after two years in April 2022. Miss C was unhappy with the delays in the claim, lack of 
updates and with the with the liability decision. She said RSA hadnt obtained CCTV footage 
that she had told it about. Miss C was unhappy that the fault claim had increased her 
premiums and wanted the increases refunded.
RSA said it had settled the claim as split liability on a without prejudice basis, as it was 
entitled to by the policys terms and conditions. But it recorded the claim as non-fault and 
Miss Cs No Claims Discount (NCD) was protected. It said the claim hadnt affected her 
premiums. RSA reimbursed Miss C half her £400 policy excess and the other insurer 
reimbursed her the other half. And RSA paid Miss C £100 compensation for her trouble and 
upset caused by its delays and not following up the CCTV. But Miss C was unhappy that she 
had to chase RSA for over two years.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought RSA 
had reasonably restored Miss Cs position in regard to the liability aspect of her complaint. 
This was because it had recorded the claim as non-fault and Miss C had recovered her 
excess. But he thought the lack of updates and the delay in settling the claim was excessive 
and RSA should pay Miss C £300 further compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
RSA replied that it thought its compensation payment was fair and reasonable. It reiterated 
that it had recorded the claim as non-fault. It provided a legal opinion that said the CCTV 
evidence, if available, was unlikely to have provided evidence of liability. As RSA didnt 
agree, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C said the collision occurred when the other driver changed lanes and hit her car. She 
said he admitted liability at the scene. But he later said they had collided when they both 
changed lanes.  
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Miss C the same as someone else in her position.
RSA is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss C to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Miss C has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
The evidence that RSA had to consider was the two drivers versions of events. I cant see 
that accident reports and diagrams were completed by the drivers. And the exact location on 
a long road is not clear. Miss C said she told RSA that there may be CCTV evidence 
available and gave it details to obtain this. But RSA said it didnt follow this up. I dont doubt 
what Miss C has said, but theres no certainty that CCTV evidence, if obtained, would show 
which driver was at fault. So, as it was one drivers word against the others, RSA concluded 
that a split liability settlement would be the best possible outcome. 
I think RSA made this decision after reasonably considering the evidence available. I can 
see that it initially contested liability with the other drivers insurer and threatened legal 
action. But it then compromised with a 50/50 settlement made without prejudice. I think its 
entitled to do this by the policys terms and conditions. 
But RSA has agreed that there were inordinate delays in the claim caused by its solicitors, 
acting as its agent, that likely led to the compromise settlement. When a business makes a 
mistake, as RSA accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, 
as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
The settlement meant that Miss C should have had a fault claim recorded against her. But 
RSA then recorded the claim as non-fault NCD allowed, so Miss Cs premium wasnt 
affected by a fault claim at renewal. Miss C had protected her NCD, so her NCD years were 
unaffected. Miss C recovered her policy excess and her claim for child seats was paid. So I 
think Miss Cs position was reasonably restored. 
Miss C wanted written confirmation about how the claim was recorded. But I think this was 
provided in RSAs response to her complaint.
Miss C said her premium in subsequent years was affected. RSA explained that it had rated 
her renewal premium in 2020 with the claim as non-fault. But its not unusual, as the 
Investigator has explained, for a non-fault claim to have an effect on premiums. So I cant 
reasonably say RSA did anything wrong in this. 
In terms of impact, RSA paid Miss C £100 compensation. But Im not satisfied that this was 
sufficient in the circumstances:
RSA has a duty to settle claims promptly. This can take some time where there is a 
dispute over liability. But I can see there were significant delays in the claim meaning 
that Miss C had to wait for over two years for the claim to be closed. One year of this 
time was spent waiting for a response from its solicitors. I think this was excessive and 
caused Miss C avoidable stress and frustration.
In the meantime, from Miss Cs account, she had to spend long periods on the phone 
pursuing RSA for updates. There were changes in staff meaning that the contact details 
she had been given were out of date and so her emails received no response. 
RSA said Miss C didnt respond to its explanation that it intended to make a split liability 
assessment, and this caused a delay. Miss C said she did dispute this. But I cant see 
from the records provided what happened, so I cant dismiss what Miss C has told us. 
I think this poor communication caused further trouble and upset for Miss C that could have 
been avoided with a better level of service. Our Investigator recommended that RSA should pay Miss C £300 further compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by its level of service. I think thats in keeping with our 
published guidance for the impact of multiple errors over a protracted period. And so I think 
thats fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Miss C £300 further compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman