DRN-2934008
The complaint
Mr B complains that Argos Limited is holding him responsible for a number of purchases 
made on his account which he says he didnt make.
  
What happened
Mr B opened an account with Argos in 2006 and made occasional purchases over the 
following years, which he doesnt dispute. But Mr B says his relationship with his now ex-wife 
ended abruptly in 2013 and, since then, all the purchases on the account have been made 
by her without his knowledge or consent.
Mr B says he only found out his ex-wife was using the account when he received a letter 
about the account to his new address in 2018. He raised the issue with Argos, saying it was 
his ex-wife using the account and asking for the account to be blocked and for him not to be 
held responsible for the purchases she had made.
Argos investigated but said the account was opened in Mr Bs name and he had signed the 
agreement and the terms and conditions. So it said it would still hold him responsible for the 
balance of the account. Mr B wasnt satisfied with Argos response, so referred his complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case and felt Mr B hadnt authorised the purchases, 
so it wouldnt be fair for Argos to hold him responsible for them. They recommended that 
Argos not hold Mr B responsible for any purchases on the account from 2015 onwards. 
Argos disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr B should be held responsible for any of the purchases on 
the account from 2015 onwards. Ill explain why below.
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting position is that Mr B isnt 
liable for payments he didnt authorise.
From the information Argos has been able to send about the purchases, it appears they 
were made either online or over the telephone. So its likely Mr Bs card details were used to 
authenticate the payments. But this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Argos to hold Mr B 
liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that Mr B consented to 
these transactions being made with his card.
Mr B says he didnt consent to his wife using the card, either during their relationship or after 
it ended. And Mr B has been consistent about this throughout his complaint and has 
provided good detail about the circumstances surrounding the end of their relationship and 
his situation afterwards. So I find what hes said plausible and persuasive.
Mr B says the end of his relationship with his ex-wife was very abrupt and he had to leave 
their address quickly and with very few possessions with him. So I think its reasonable that 
he may have left his Argos card at the address and that this is likely how his ex-wife gained 
possession of the card.
Mr B has also said the end of the relationship was acrimonious, he wasnt welcome at their 
address and he was homeless for a number of months afterwards. So I also think its 
reasonable that he wasnt thinking about the card and didnt query the status of it, 
particularly as hed only used it occasionally himself.
The information Argos has sent us about the purchases also shows that the name given 
when the purchases from 2015 onwards were made was Mr Bs ex-wifes name. And Mr B 
has sent us evidence that he had moved into a new address from early 2015. But the 
purchases from 2015 onwards are all linked to the previous address he says his ex-wife still 
lived at, rather than Mr Bs new address.
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely Mr B didnt authorise any of the 
purchases made on the account from 2015 onwards.
Argos has said Mr B had a responsibility to manage the account and to notify it if he 
changed address. But, due to the circumstances mentioned above and that Mr B had only 
used the account occasionally himself, I think its reasonable that he didnt think to update 
Argos about what had happened at the time.
Mr B says he first found out about the further purchases when he received a letter about the 
account in September 2018. He says he called Argos immediately after receiving the letter to 
say it wasnt him using the account and asking for it to be blocked. And he says hes been 
receiving letters regularly and has phoned Argos on a number of occasions since about the 
issue.
So it appears Mr B tried to make Argos aware of the situation as soon as he became aware 
of it. And, while Mr B appears to have had some reluctance to involve the police as his son 
was still living with his ex-wife at the time, I dont think it would be fair to say he had 
authorised the purchases or to hold him responsible for them on that basis.
As the purchases were all done either online or over the telephone, they were completed 
without the merchant or consumer being physically present  and so are distance contracts. 
And the Payment Service Regulations 2017 say that, unless the payer has acted 
fraudulently, they arent liable for unauthorised transactions completed by a distance 
contract.
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied Mr B didnt authorise the purchases. And Ive not seen 
any suggestion that he has acted fraudulently or that any of the purchases are excepted 
contracts from the regulations. So I dont think Mr B should be held responsible for any of the 
purchases on the account from 2015 onwards.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Argos Limited to not hold Mr B responsible for any of the 
purchases on the account from 2015 onwards. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman