DRN-3607611
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited (MAFS) recommended 
she transfer the benefits held in an occupational defined-benefit (DB) pension scheme to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Part of the funds were subsequently invested in 
high-risk investments which Mrs M says werent suitable for her.
What happened
Mrs M was introduced to MAFS through an unregulated introducer, Mr B, in 2016. In 
May 2016, MAFSs adviser produced a pension transfer report in which he recommended 
Mrs M transfer the cash equivalent transfer value of her pension to a SIPP. MAFSs adviser 
set out what he thought a suitable asset allocation for Mrs M would be, based on her 
medium attitude to risk. He then recommended that the funds should be invested with a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM) who Ill refer to as B, using their model portfolio service. 
MAFSs adviser said B would be responsible for recommending a suitable investment 
portfolio.
Mrs M accepted the recommendation. On 9 June 2016, £196,320.28 was transferred to the 
SIPP. MAFS took a fee of 3% of the transfer value and would take 0.5% of the pension value 
in return for ongoing advice.
Although MAFS had recommended that Mrs M should invest her funds with B, an account 
with another DFM, which Ill refer to as S, was also set up. On 23 June 2016, £85,000 was 
transferred to S and on 28 June 2016, £99,915.88 was transferred to B. However, on 
24 October 2016, Mrs Ms funds were disinvested from B (at a small loss), and a further 
£98,756.40 was transferred to S on 26 October 2016. Part of Mrs Ms funds that had been 
sent to S were then invested in Optima bonds.
In late 2016 MAFS started looking into pension advice provided where Mr B had acted as 
the introducer. And the MAFSs adviser involved was dismissed as a result of regulatory 
breaches MAFS uncovered through its investigation. Soon after, S went into administration, 
meaning Mrs Ms investments were inaccessible and were potentially worthless.
A complaint was also submitted to the SIPP provider on the grounds that it had failed to 
carry out sufficient due diligence checks on S, which had led to unsuitable investments being 
made for Mrs M. The SIPP provider turned this complaint down so it has been referred to our 
service and is ongoing.
Mrs M lodged a claim with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about S 
and B but these claims were rejected on the basis she had an ongoing complaint about the 
SIPP provider regarding the same loss.
Mrs M then complained to MAFS about the suitability of the advice to transfer her pension 
and the investments made on her behalf.
MAFS upheld the complaint. It accepted the pension transfer advice was unsuitable but it 
said it wasnt responsible for the investments in S as it appeared Mrs M had authorised 
these, most likely at the direction of Mr B. Nevertheless, MAFS offered Mrs M compensation 
of £31,778.65, which it said put her back into the position she wouldve been in if her DB 
pension hadnt been transferred.
Mrs M didnt accept the offer as she didnt think it adequately compensated her for her loss, 
so she referred her complaint to our service. Mrs Ms representative said MAFSs offer only 
compensated Mrs M for the pension transfer and not the subsequent investment losses. He 
thought Mrs M should be compensated for the investment loss using a benchmark.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought that MAFS was responsible for the advice 
to transfer the pension and the investments that had subsequently been made. He 
recommended that MAFS should compensate Mrs M for the unsuitable advice, in line with 
the regulators pension review guidance, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers (FG17/9). He also awarded compensation of £300 for the 
trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice.
MAFS accepted this, and provided an updated calculation of the offer. It explained that the 
investment loss had been accounted for, and the loss now stood at £20,506.80, which it 
offered Mrs M in full and final settlement of her complaint.
Mrs M didnt accept this, as she still didnt think this compensated her for her entire loss. 
Mrs Ms representative remained of the view that comparing Mrs Ms pension with a 
benchmark was more appropriate way to redress Mrs Ms loss. Mrs Ms representative said 
that the 2017 SIPP statement showed Mrs Ms loss was in excess of £100,000. As no 
agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
I asked the investigator to contact Mrs Ms representative to explain that I considered 
MAFSs method of calculating redress was correct, so if I were to issue a final decision 
I would be asking MAFS to recalculate the offer on the same basis. So, I gave Mrs M a 
further chance to accept this. Mrs Ms representative still didnt agree the redress 
methodology was fair. He said that it could be argued the transfer value Mrs M received was 
inflated but even if that was the case, then any gain made by Mrs M was not attributable to 
MAFSs advice to transfer the pension funds but to an over generous calculation by the 
ceding provider. He maintained Mrs M should be compensated for her actual investment 
loss, which was significant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator.
It should be noted that because both Mrs M and MAFS accept that the advice Mrs M 
received to transfer her DB pension was unsuitable, and that Mrs M wouldve remained in 
the DB scheme had suitable advice been given, I dont need to consider this further. It 
should further be noted that MAFSs accepts that it is also responsible for the investment 
loss Mrs M experienced through S. It says that its offer of redress, which was calculated in 
line with the FCAs pension transfer redress methodology, accounts for the investment loss. 
While Mrs Ms representative disputed that this fairly compensated Mrs M, he has since 
withdrawn this point. However, for completeness, Ive gone on to consider whether the 
redress MAFS has offered fairly compensates Mrs M for the unsuitable advice she received.Mrs Ms representative has previously argued that Mrs M should be compensated for her 
actual loss, and that this should be based on comparing the actual value of her SIPP with a 
fair value using a benchmark in line with her attitude to risk. The representative says the 
amount Mrs M has lost on her investments made through S is significant. And he believes 
that there is scope within the FCAs pension transfer redress methodology to depart from the 
guidance where the guidance did not address the particular and individual circumstances of 
a customers complaint. Mrs M further added that she didnt see how it was possible for 
MAFS to offer compensation now which would reflect the cost of obtaining a comparable 
pension to her DB scheme at her normal retirement age, providing the same benefits as the 
DB scheme.
Ive considered these points carefully. But Im satisfied that redress calculated in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance, as updated by the FCA in FG17/9, fairly compensates 
Mrs M for the unsuitable advice to transfer her pension.
The redress method requires MAFS to calculate the cost of replacing the benefits Mrs M lost 
as a result of transferring out of her DB scheme, i.e. the amount required to purchase an 
annuity providing comparable benefits with her DB scheme at her normal retirement age of 
65. This sum is then discounted back to allow the compensation amount to grow in line with 
assumed investment returns until 65. This is then compared with the current actual value of 
Mrs Ms SIPP, and if the actual value is lower, compensation is due. So, I'm satisfied the 
calculation is putting Mrs B as far as possible into the position she wouldve been in if she 
had remained in the DB scheme. And this calculation method will aim to provide Mrs M with 
sufficient funds to purchase an annuity providing comparable benefits to her DB scheme at 
the date of calculation.
If Mrs M accepts my final decision, MAFS will be required to recalculate the compensation 
due to her. However, I note the calculations it has previously carried out have produced a 
lower amount of compensation compared to the amount she has lost through her 
investments with S. So, I can understand why Mrs M may feel that the method of redress 
isnt appropriate for her as it doesnt reflect the amount she lost through her investments.
However, its important to note that Mrs M complained she should not have been advised to 
transfer her DB scheme, and that if suitable advice had been given, she would not have 
transferred out of the scheme. So, the appropriate way to compensate Mrs M is to ensure 
that she has sufficient funds to purchase an annuity that would provide comparable benefits 
to her DB scheme. In any event, the Regulator has set out what it deems to be appropriate 
redress to put right instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer advice. And I see 
no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint as it puts Mrs M back 
into the position she wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs M, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for MAFSs unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs M  
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if she'd been given suitable advice. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mrs M whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. 
Mrs M has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her 
complaint. 
So, I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs M.
MAFS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mrs M has no plans at present to retire any earlier than her normal retirement 
age. So, compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ms acceptance of the decision.
MAFS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs M within 90 days of the date MAFS receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes MAFS to pay Mrs M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mrs M to the position she wouldve been in but for the actions of MAFS. 
This is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on 
the open market) as their value cant be determined, which appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, MAFS should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investment. If MAFS is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should 
include anything MAFS has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be 
applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, MAFS may ask Mrs M to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. 
MAFS will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If MAFS asks Mrs M to 
provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mrs M wish to move her investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, 
the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by MAFS taking over the investment, or this is something that Mrs M can discuss 
with her SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are 
involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that MAFS pay Mrs M an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect MAFS to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
MAFS should also pay Mrs M £300 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable 
advice, which has had an impact on her retirement planning.My final decision
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. 
My decision is that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited should pay Mrs M the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including distress or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited pays Mrs M the 
balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
If Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any 
investment currently illiquid should be retained by Mrs M. This is until any future benefit that 
she may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Martin Aitken 
Financial Services Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.
Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited may request an undertaking from Mrs M that either 
she repays to Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited any amount she may receive from the 
portfolio thereafter, or if possible transfers the investment to MAFS at that point.
Mrs M should be aware that any such amount would be paid into her pension plan so she 
may have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman