DRN-3235583
The complaint
Miss F has complained that, because of incorrect information provided to her by Santander 
about porting her mortgage, she had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) on her 
mortgage. Although Santander later agreed to allow her to port, Miss F says she found 
dealing with Santander so stressful that she wasnt able to proceed.
To settle the complaint Miss F wants Santander to reimburse the ERC and pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I can summarise whats happened briefly. There are several reasons for this. First, 
Santander has acknowledged it made a mistake. Consequently, I dont need to analyse what 
happened in order to determine if the bank is at fault; thats not in dispute. All I need to 
determine is what Santander needs to do to put things right. Secondly, our decisions are 
published, so its important I dont include any information that might need to Miss F being 
identified.
Briefly, Miss F had a mortgage with Santander taken out in 2017. The mortgage was on a 
fixed rate and was subject to an ERC if it was repaid before 2 November 2022. The 
mortgage offer also said that if Miss F moved house, she might be able to transfer the 
product onto a new mortgage, subject to meeting lending and affordability criteria.
Miss F wanted to move to a new property and was told by Santander that she could 
purchase the property outright and then apply to port her mortgage later on. This, however, 
wasnt correct because Santander doesnt allow a customer to port a mortgage onto a 
property they already own.
Relying on what shed been told, Miss F went ahead with her sale, exchanging contracts on 
10 September 2020. It was at this point Miss F was told that porting wasnt allowed on a 
property she already owned. Committed to her sale, Miss F redeemed the mortgage on 
14 September 2020, paying an ERC of £3,124.45. On 2 October 2020 Miss F purchased a 
new property, jointly with her partner. 
Miss F complained and initially Santander disputed shed ever been told she could port in 
the circumstances outlined above. However, after listening to calls, Santander 
acknowledged that Miss F had, in fact, been told she could port after shed bought her new 
property. Santander agreed to allow Miss F to apply for a new mortgage, porting the 
previous interest rate product, and if this was done within 90 days of the original mortgage 
being redeemed, the ERC would be reimbursed. Santander also paid Miss F £50 for the 
error it had made in giving Miss F incorrect information.
On 22 September 2020 a porting application was started for Miss F. However, because the 
new property was in joint names, Santander needed Miss Fs partner to join in the 
application, and to carry out a full affordability assessment. A joint application was started on 
12 November 2020. There was a some back-and-forth over the information Santander 
needed for this and, after Santander explained on 17 November 2020 it would need certain 
information about Miss Fs partners income by 24 November 2020, Miss F and her partner 
decided not to go ahead with the application. 
Miss F complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In response to the complaint, 
Santander reiterated that it accepted it had made an error in giving Miss F incorrect 
information about the circumstances in which she could port. Santander offered an additional 
£200 for the upset this had caused.  But the bank said that Miss F and her partner had 
withdrawn the application for a new mortgage, so the bank wasnt prepared to refund the 
ERC.
An investigator looked at what had happened and thought Santanders offer of 
compensation was fair. He explained to Miss F that once Santander was aware that the new 
application was in joint names, it was reasonable for Santander to want to assess 
affordability, as this was a change to the existing mortgage. Overall, the investigator thought 
Santander had done enough to put things right.
Miss F disagreed with the investigators findings. In summary, she said that, although she 
and her partner were moving to their new home together, if shed known at the time that 
Santander would have needed to assess his income for a new mortgage, shed have bought 
the property in her sole name in order to avoid Santander needing to carry out an 
affordability assessment. Miss F said that Santanders handling of the situation was 
appalling and caused her months of stress. Miss F said that if Santander would pay her 
£500, she wouldnt take the complaint any further.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, Santander has accepted it made a mistake, so all I need to decide is 
what must be done to put things right.
Im satisfied it was reasonable, once Santander had identified its error, to allow an 
application to be made for a new mortgage with a port of the original interest rate product. 
Under mortgage regulations, if this was a like-for-like porting application, with no changes to 
the original mortgage, Santander might not have needed to carry out an affordability check, if 
nothing had changed in relation to Miss Fs circumstances. 
However, Miss Fs circumstances had substantially changed, because she had moved over 
250 miles away from the town where shed previous lived, yet she was still running an 
in-person business in that town. As a result, Santander looked at Miss Fs financial 
circumstances in order to see how she would be able to sustain her business, where she 
would be living during the work week, along with other considerations in relation to this. I 
think, given that this was a major change to her situation, that it was reasonable for 
Santander to consider this.It didnt come to light until 7 November 2020 that the new property was owned in joint 
names. As a result, Santander explained to Miss F that her partner would need to be added 
to the application and would need to go through full affordability checks. The joint application 
began on 12 November 2020 and was withdrawn by Miss F and her partner five days later, 
on 17 November 2020.
If Miss F had been told at the outset that porting the mortgage had to be simultaneous with 
purchase of the property, the application would have been made at the same time, and 
would still have been subject to the same affordability assessment. Miss F says that if shed 
known thered need to be an assessment of her partners income for the new mortgage, 
shed have bought the property in her sole name. However, Im not persuaded by this, and I 
think the intention was always that the property was going to be bought in joint names.
It was reasonable for Santander to want verification from Miss Fs partners employer of his 
employment status on headed paper. Miss F was told on 16 November 2020 that Santander 
needed this information. The following day the application was withdrawn. That was a 
decision made by Miss F and her partner, and Im not persuaded that, as a result, Santander 
is required to refund the ERC. Santander isnt to blame for not knowing that the property had 
been bought in joint names. Once this came to light, the joint application was set up quickly, 
and would, Im satisfied, have proceeded quickly if the income verification had been 
supplied. 
Ive taken note of what Miss F has said  which is that she felt Santander was deliberately 
dragging out the application in order to make sure it ran past the deadline to allow her to port 
the product. But Ive not seen any reference by Santander in its final response letter to any 
deadline by which the transaction had to be completed. 
In any event, as our investigator explained to Miss F, if Santander had refused to refund the 
ERC after completion of a new mortgage on the basis of a missed deadline  and the delay 
was down to Santander  then thats something wed have been able to look at. But the joint 
application never proceeded, and so this is a moot point.
In addition to the £50 Santander originally paid, the bank has offered an additional £200 for 
trouble and upset. I appreciate this was a stressful time for Miss F, but Im satisfied this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and is proportionate to the mistake the bank made. 
Santander also gave Miss F the opportunity to obtain a refund of the ERC, but Im not 
persuaded Santander is at fault for the joint application ultimately not going ahead.
My final decision
My final decision is that if it has not already done so, in addition to the £50 already paid, 
Santander UK Plc should pay Miss F £200 in full and final settlement of this complaint. I 
make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman