DRN-2828485
The complaint
This complaint is recorded in the joint names of Mrs L and Mrs L. For the sake of clarity, and
to avoid confusion, I will refer in this letter to Mrs L and Mrs Ls wife, although it remains the
case that this is a joint complaint.
Mrs L is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) recorded a default on her
credit file for a joint account held with her wife which she believes should have been included
in her wifes IVA.  
What happened
In early 2020, Mrs Ls wife fell into financial difficulties and decided to enter an IVA. The
debts included in the IVA were in Mrs Ls wifes sole name. Mrs L and her wife did hold a
joint NatWest bank account which had an outstanding overdraft balance, and which the IVA
practitioner confirmed would also be included in the IVA.
After the IVA was set up, Mrs L received letters from NatWest demanding repayment of the
outstanding overdraft balance on the joint account. Mrs L contacted NatWest to discuss this
and was told by NatWest that it was understood that the account was included in the IVA
and that as such there wasnt an issue. Mrs L was also told by NatWest that the letters she
was receiving had to be sent by law, but that Mrs L could ignore them - which Mrs L did.
Sometime later, Mrs L received a letter from a debt collection agency. Mrs L contacted the
debt collection agency and discovered that NatWest had recorded a default on her credit file
because of the joint account overdraft balance and had assigned the debt to the debt
collection agency. Mrs L wasnt happy about this, so she made a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mrs Ls complaint. They acknowledged that incorrect information had
been given to Mrs L, but they felt that the default had been applied correctly. So, they didnt
uphold the complaint.
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so she referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They agreed that NatWest had given Mrs L
incorrect information about outstanding balance, but they didnt feel that they could
reasonably recommend that NatWest remove the default from Mrs Ls credit file, and this
was because it appeared likely, from the information that the investigator had seen, that Mrs
L wouldnt have been able to repay the outstanding balance at the time of the payment
demands, had she wanted to do so. And this meant that it was likely that the default would
always have been applied.
Mrs L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 May 2021 as follows:
It isnt disputed by any party that NatWest gave Mrs L the wrong information when 
she contacted them about the letters that she was receiving, such that NatWest told 
Mrs L that she could ignore the letters and didnt need to take any action in regard to 
them.
It must have been incredibly frustrating then, for Mrs L to later discover that NatWest 
had given her incorrect information and that a default had been recorded on her 
credit file as a result of this. And I can understand how this frustration might have 
been compounded when NatWest agreed that they had given Mrs L incorrect 
information while also maintaining that the default had been applied correctly.
Our investigator felt that they couldnt fairly recommend that NatWest remove the 
default from Mrs Ls credit file because they didnt feel that Mrs L had been in a 
financial position, when that the letters were first received, to have cleared the 
balance that was owing and so to have avoided the default being applied. And, 
having reviewed the bank statements provided by Mrs L, I can understand how our 
investigator arrived at this position.
But it doesnt feel fair to me that NatWest should have specifically told Mrs L that she 
could ignore the payment demand letters being sent to her, only to then apply a 
default against Mrs Ls credit file on the basis of her not responding to the payment 
demand she was told by NatWest that she could ignore.
Im aware that Mrs L feels that she might have been able to make other 
arrangements to clear the outstanding balance so that she could have avoided the 
possibility of a default being recorded against her. And I feel that its fair that Mrs L 
should be given that opportunity, given the circumstances here.
This means that my provisional decision will be that I uphold this complaint in Mrs Ls 
favour and that my provisional instruction to NatWest will be; that if Mrs L is able to 
make a payment to clear the outstanding balance in full  as the balance was at the 
time of the first payment demand  within 30-days of the date of this letter, that 
NatWest must recall the account from the debt collection agency, accept the 
payment, and remove all adverse information relating to this account from Mr Ls 
credit file.
Conversely, if Mrs L isnt able to make the payment as described above within 30-
days of the date of this letter, then I feel that its fair that default should remain on Mrs 
Ls credit file. If thats the case, NatWest need take no action and the default should 
remain in place from the original date of default.
The spirit of this provisional instruction is to provide Mrs L with a fair opportunity to 
clear the balance on the account, such as she would have received had she not been 
told by NatWest to ignore the letters sent to her demanding repayment.
In addition, it is also my provisional instruction that NatWest should make a payment 
to Mrs L of £150 to compensate her for the provision of the incorrect information and 
for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. 
Please note that, while the provisional decision letter made reference to Mrs L needing to make a payment within 30-days of the date on this letter, i.e. the date on the provisional 
decision letter, it was explained to both Mrs L and Mrs L, and NatWest, that it would be 30-
days from the date of the final decision letter  and so 30-days from 21 May 2021, which is 
the date on this actual final decision letter  that applies. 
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs L and Mrs L, and NatWest, the opportunity 
to provide any further information or comments that they wished me to consider. NatWest 
confirmed that they had nothing further to add, and Mrs and Mrs L confirmed that they 
accepted my provisional decision. So, my final decision will be that I uphold this complaint on 
that basis. 
However, Mrs L and Mrs L did ask for confirmation that payments already made to the 
outstanding balance to the debt collection agency would be taken into consideration with 
regard the balance that remained outstanding to be paid. And I can confirm that it would be 
expected that the outstanding balance would be reduced in consideration of any payments 
that Mrs L and Mrs L have already made since that time, to either NatWest of the debt 
collection agency.   
Putting things right
If Mrs L and Mrs L are able to make a repayment to clear the outstanding balance of this 
account in full within 30-days of the date of this letter, then NatWest must recall the account 
from the debt collection agency, accept the payment, and remove all adverse information 
relating to this account from Mrs Ls credit file.
If Mrs L and Mrs L arent able to make a repayment to clear the outstanding balance of this 
account in full within 30-days of the date of this letter, then NatWest need take no further 
action and the default should remain on Mrs Ls credit file recorded from the original date of 
default.
NatWest must also make a payment to Mrs L and Mrs L of £150 as compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience this matter has caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc on 
the basis explained above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman