DRN-4331217
The complaint
Miss T complains that the charges Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) applied to her 
account were unaffordable and contributed to her financial difficulties. She says she 
struggled to meet basic necessities and wants a refund of charges on the grounds of 
financial hardship. 
What happened
Miss T held an account with Nationwide with an overdraft which reached its highest limit of 
£2,200 in January 2022. 
Miss T got in contact with Nationwide in June 2021 following receipt of a high overdraft 
usage letter. At the time Miss T said she was struggling and living off her overdraft and 
wanted an interest payment refund and wanted to pay by instalments. Nationwide wouldnt 
provide a refund but said it could look at options to support Miss T with the reduction of her 
overdraft but that she needed to call back with income and expenditure so it could assess 
affordability. Miss T didnt call Nationwide back with this information.
Following this Nationwide says it tried calling Miss T and sent her a number of letters 
regarding the use of her overdraft.  Miss T eventually got in touch with Nationwide again on 
13 July 2022. Miss T informed Nationwide that shed been the victim of domestic abuse, had 
lost her job and other difficult events that had happened in her personal life. Nationwide 
refunded four months worth of overdraft charges totalling £200.71 for the period April to July 
2022.
Nationwide sent further letters to Miss T asking she get in touch, but she never did until she 
raised her complaint in November 2022 and provided Nationwide with further information 
regarding her situation and asked Nationwide for a refund of the past six years worth of fees 
and charges. Nationwide said all charges were applied correctly but agreed in line with its 
policy to refund twelve months of charges totalling £557.41  this was on top of the £200.71 
already refunded. 
Nationwide again said it could discuss options of support such as a repayment plan for Miss 
Ts overdraft but that she would need to complete her income and expenditure before this 
could be done. To further assist Miss T it stopped pending charges of £57.84 which meant 
overdraft charges wouldnt again be applied until January 2023.
Miss T was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into her concerns and thought that Nationwide shouldve 
realised that Miss T was in financial difficulty due to economic abuse and refunded the 
overdraft charges applied to the account from 7 November 2019. 
Nationwide disagreed. It says it didnt know Miss Ts ex-partner had access to her account 
and that although Miss T did utilize her overdraft the credits coming in at times cleared her 
overdraft and that lots of the transactions on the account it considered were non-essential 
spending. Nationwide says it wouldnt have been able to tell from the transactions 
themselves that it wasnt Miss T spending the money. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 31 July 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained why 
I was not proposing to uphold Miss Ts complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further submissions before I reached a final decision. Both parties have confirmed they have 
received my provisional decision and Nationwide has nothing further to add. Miss T disputes 
having received some of Nationwides correspondence and believes the amount of refunds 
she has received as being inaccurate, but she has hasnt provided any new information 
either. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Firstly, to be clear my decision only relates to Miss Ts complaint about the charges applied 
to her account prior to November 2021. This is because I can see that Nationwide has 
already done what Id expect it to do had I found it had continued to provide a credit facility 
that was unsustainable and has refunded all charges from this point until she raised her 
complaint in November 2022. 
Indeed, my understanding is that Nationwide has in total refunded 16 months worth of 
charges if you take into consideration the duplicate refunds received. And I can also see that 
Nationwide has informed Miss T of the options available to support her with repaying her 
overdraft and that before it can do this in an affordable way, Miss T needs to provide it with 
details of her income and expenditure. This is all in-line with what I would expect  so I dont 
think Nationwide needs to do anything more here. 
So this being the case the focus of my decision is on this period from when Miss T had her 
overdraft approved in October 2020 and whether Nationwide should have done more to 
assist Miss T and whether it acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss T when it applied any 
interest, fees and charges to Miss Ts account in circumstances where it was aware, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Miss T was experiencing financial difficulty 
and was the victim of economic abuse.
And I currently dont think that Nationwide did treat Miss T unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because Miss T didnt inform Nationwide of the domestic abuse shed 
suffered until July 2022 and having looked at Miss Ts statements I havent seen enough to 
suggest that Nationwide ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial 
difficulty or that the transactions on her account were made by someone else. 
Miss T may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss Ts 
expenditure, nonetheless there is spending on what I would consider discretionary, non-
essential items such as fast food and leisure activities. I can also see regular cash 
withdrawals and transfers to other accounts all of which were depleting her account and 
there doesnt appear to be any obvious signs that it wasnt Miss T making the transactions. 
There were regular credits and cash transfers into the account and Miss T was able to bring 
the overdraft down and for some months for the period in question saw a credit balance 
before once again going on to use her overdraft to make debit card transactions, further money transfers and cash withdrawals. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs T 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty or domestic abuse. But there isnt anything in these 
transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Nationwide to this.  
So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Miss Ts account was being 
used leading up to November 2021. 
I see that Miss T did contact Nationwide in June 2021 regarding her overdraft and that she 
wanted a refund of overdraft interest and wished to pay back her overdraft by instalments. 
But Nationwide did what Id expect it to do here  it outlined some options for Miss T and 
asked her to call back with her income and expenditure so it could assess what was 
affordable for her. But despite Nationwides efforts in trying to contact her, Miss T didnt get 
in touch until a year later. I accept Miss T has been through an awful lot in terms of her 
domestic situation and I sympathise with her, but Nationwide wasnt aware of the situation so 
I cant say it did anything wrong or treated her unfairly based on the information it had.
 
So taking everything into consideration I dont think Nationwide treated Miss T unfairly or 
unreasonably during the period in question. And when Miss T did get in touch with 
Nationwide, I think the steps it took to help her were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and in-line with what Id expect.
I appreciate that Miss T can not recall all of the contact she had with Nationwide over the 
years and accept due to her very difficult circumstances Miss T may well not have received 
all Nationwides letters. However, from the information Ive seen Im satisfied that the contact 
between Nationwide and Miss T outlined in the background did happen. I also appreciate 
that Miss Ts circumstances made it difficult for her to keep Nationwide updated. But even 
so, on the information Nationwide had available to it, I dont agree that it treated Miss T 
unfairly. 
And as neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman