DRN-3771811
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE 
LIMITED (Startline) when it sold his car to reduce the outstanding balance owed under his 
credit agreement and then applied charges to his account.
What happened
Mr W entered into a hire purchase agreement with Startline for a used car in October 2015. 
In August 2019, following an incident, the car was seized and impounded by the police. 
Mr W wanted to collect the vehicle but wasnt able to pay the settlement figure required by 
Startline, so he asked it to collect the car and then sell it to clear the outstanding balance.
Mr W told us:
the car was released to him in March 2020. But although he wanted to collect it, 
Startline wouldnt permit the car to be released to him unless he settled the 
outstanding finance on it  around £1,000;
Startline said it could collect the car and then sell it and use the proceeds to reduce 
the balance;
he told Startline that the car could be collected at no extra cost  it was free to 
collect, and no additional charges would be raised;
six months later Startline gave him a bill for a further £500 for releasing the car and 
collecting it, and then sold it at below market value;
hes experienced terrible customer service from Startline  its not provided the 
information hes asked for and its provided no empathy; causing him financial stress 
and worry;
hes unhappy with the outstanding balance it says he owes.
Startline rejected this complaint and said it had found no evidence of any improper action 
during the repossession of the car. It said it had been formally notified in August 2019 that 
the car had been impounded but it wasnt until the end of October that it was able to 
successfully make contact with Mr W. At the end of November Mr W contacted it to make his 
agreed monthly payment and it agreed to waive some arrears charges as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Startline says it wasnt until March 2020 that Mr W contacted it to ask about collecting the 
car and its Recoveries Team advised him that the car would only be released if he paid the 
full settlement figure. Because Mr W couldnt pay the settlement figure, he asked Startline to 
collect the car. Startline says it applied a charge of £492 to the account which covered the 
cost of recovering the car and it noted that the arrears balance on the account was already 
nearly £400 as it hadnt received any monthly payments from Mr W since November 2019. It 
said it had written to Mr W on a number of occasions in December, January and February to 
notify him of the arrears on the account and then in April 2020, it contacted him again to 
advise it was awaiting sale of the car and it asked him to make contact to discuss repayment 
of the arrears balance.
Startline says the car was sold at auction in June 2020 for £350 and this was credited to 
Mr Ws account and a charge of £78  the amount levied by the third party for selling the car 
 was applied to the account. Startline says at this point, the arrears balance on the account 
was just over £1,500.
Startline says its not required to provide Mr W with details of the cars sale, but it did provide 
him with a copy of all the telephone recordings between itself and Mr W  to show he hadnt 
ever been told there were no arrears on his account  and it sent this on a CD by recorded 
delivery in July 2021.
Startline told us it had applied charges to Mr Ws account in accordance with the terms and 
conditions on his credit agreement. Specifically, it had passed on the fees it had been 
charged when the car had been impounded and then released and it highlighted the 
following terms and conditions in Mr Ws hire purchase agreement: You must pay us all 
reasonable costs and expenses we incur as a result of your breaking this agreement or our 
seeking repayment from you or recovering the Vehicle.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
Mr W wouldve been aware he hadnt made a payment after November 2019, and, on the 
basis of the letters sent to him by Startline, he wouldve known his account was in arrears 
and the level of those arrears. He looked at the charges that Startline applied to Mr Ws 
account and said he thought theyd been applied fairly and in accordance with the terms of 
Mr Ws finance agreement.
Our investigator considered some further submissions by both Mr W and Startline and said 
he thought Startline had been fair in its dealings with Mr W. It hadnt contacted him 
excessively and he couldnt conclude thered been a failing in the service it had provided.
Mr W disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He wants Startline to remove the 
arears balance and pay him compensation for the distress it has caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Additional Charges
Mr W is unhappy with the additional charges levied when Startline collected his car and then 
sold it, with his agreement, at auction. He says hed been told that thered be no charges if 
he collected the car, and he thinks Startlines delay in collecting the car has added to the 
overall cost.
Ive had the benefit of seeing a screenshot of the fees charged to Startline in connection with 
this. There was a charge of £250+VAT to collect the vehicle and a charge of £160+VAT 
which was levied as the pounds recovery fee. Startline didnt add to these charges, it simply 
applied them in full to Mr Ws account. A further charge of £78 was applied to Mr Ws 
account  this was the charge levied by the third party for processing the sale of the car at auction. Startline confirmed there was no additional charges incurred for storage of the car 
or charges incurred as a result of any delay in collecting the car.
Ive looked at Mr Ws credit agreement. Theres a section in it that says you will pay all costs 
and expenses (including all our reasonable legal costs) we incur in retaking possession of, 
storing and transporting the Vehicle So, taking this into account, Im satisfied that Startline 
have applied these charges fairly and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the hire 
purchase agreement signed by Mr W on 7 October 2015.
Arrears
Mr W says that he was told in telephone conversations that there were no arrears on his 
account, and that the sale proceeds would be more than enough to repay the outstanding 
balance on the account. Startline disagrees and says that Mr W wouldve been aware of the 
arrears on his account and the fact hed not made any payments since November 2019.
Unfortunately, in view of the time that has elapsed, Startline no longer has access to the call 
recordings of conversations between it and Mr W. And although it sent him copies of these 
recordings, encrypted onto a CD, when Mr W first asked for these, before the complaint 
came to this Service, Mr W says he never listened to them and theyre no longer accessible.
I have, however seen copies of correspondence that Startline sent Mr W, together with its 
internal customer contact notes. I can see that an Arrears Notice and a Notice of Default 
Sums was sent in November 2019 and then further notices were sent in December, January 
and February, culminating in a Default Notice.
In March, Startline emailed Mr W to confirm the arrears balance on the account, and there 
was further correspondence in the months that followed as well as the cancellation of some 
charges due to Mr Ws personal circumstances.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mr W was aware both that there were 
arrears on his account, and the level of those arrears.
Customer Service
Mr Ws complaint is essentially about how he was treated by Startline and whether or not it 
harassed him. 
Now I accept that Mr W doesnt agree but, having considered what both parties have said 
and submitted, Im satisfied that Startline acted in line with the requirement to treat 
customers in arrears fairly. In coming to this conclusion, Ive had regard to the fact that:
Startline tried to engage with Mr W on a number of occasions and through a number 
of mediums  it sent letters and emails and, when it received no response to some of 
these, it telephoned him.
Although Mr W said Startline had sent him an excessive number of letters in a very 
short period, the evidence Ive seen indicates it only sent two in the period in 
question; both of which it was required to send to Mr W in accordance with the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974).
Startline waived some of the fees and charges having taken into account Mr Ws 
personal circumstances.
Startline responded promptly  usually the same day  to Mr Ws communications 
with it.While I can understand that Mr Ws personal circumstances meant that he will have been 
experiencing a higher degree of worry and anxiety at this time, Im not persuaded that 
Startline did anything it shouldnt have done, or that it treated him unfairly in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman