DRN-3391076
The complaint
Miss W says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly lent to her. She has 
requested that the interest and late payment charges she paid on her account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by Studio Retail to Miss W. 
The account was opened in February 2017 with Miss W being given an initial credit limit of 
£100. This limit was increased twice, first to £200 in May 2017 and then to £250 in June 
2017 
Miss Ws account later went into arrears and was sold on to a third party in April 2018. 
Miss W says shes unhappy that Studio Retail allowed her to open an account and 
continued to increase her credit limit when she was only making minimum payments each 
month and was experiencing financial difficulty.
Based on the limited information she had about Miss Ws financial circumstances, our 
adjudicator didnt think Studio Retail had acted unfairly in the way it managed the 
account. She also thought that although Studio Retail hadnt necessarily carried out 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before approving each credit limit 
increase, that had it done so it would likely still have concluded that each credit limit 
increase was affordable. 
As Miss W didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Studio Retail says it acted as a responsible lender when opening  Miss Ws account and 
increasing her credit limits. Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why she didnt think 
Studio Retail lent to Miss W irresponsibly. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of Studio Retails lending history with 
Miss W, so as to see if there was a point at which Studio Retail should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would 
mean Studio Retail should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Miss Ws 
credit limits.
Having reviewed the complaint myself, including the account history, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator and so dont consider that Ms W lost out due to Studio Retails 
actions in relation to her account. I will explain why. 
When Miss W opened her account in February 2017, Studio Retail says there were no signs 
of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, and taking 
into account the low opening credit limit of £100 she was given, I dont think there is anything 
to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved the 
account at this point. 
Studio Retail says that from its checks it was aware that Ms W owed money elsewhere and 
that she tended to use about 50% of her available credit limit. However, given that there 
were no signs of Ms W being in financial difficulty or default with her lending, Studio Retail 
was able to go ahead with offering Ms W an account with a low opening credit limit. Whilst 
Studio Retail didnt ask Miss W about her income, I can see that this may have helped it 
begin to build a picture of her financial circumstances at that point. As things stand, however, 
I cant say if its likely that had it done so, it would have seen that Miss W would have 
difficulty making payments to her account. 
Miss W says that at the time she opened her account she had other credit card accounts as 
well as other lending shed had problems making payments on and had late payment 
markers. However, I see that shes only been able to give us limited information about her 
financial situation at the time. So we dont know what proportionate checks carried out by 
Studio Retail would have shown.
Looking at the two credit limit increases Studio Retail gave Miss W, I agree with our 
adjudicator that it would have been helpful for Studio Retail to have found out more about 
Miss Ws financial situation. But from what Miss W has told us about her income at the time, 
had it done so I think its likely it would have found that the minimum payments  Miss W was 
making on her account showed it was affordable for her. 
When Studio Retail gave Miss W two further credit limit increases, in May and June 2017, I 
think it should have requested details of  Miss Ws income, daily expenditure and debts 
owing elsewhere. Overall, however, our adjudicator thought there wasnt enough to show 
that Miss W was experiencing financial difficulty to the extent that Studio Retail shouldnt 
have increased her credit limit at this time. 
I dont think the information we have about Miss Ws financial situation at the time is 
enough for me to be able to find that had Studio Retail carried out additional proportionate 
checks, it would have found these credit limit increases to be unsustainable. Ive also seen 
that Miss W was managing her account in such a way that she wasnt using a significant 
proportion of the credit limit that Studio Retail had made available to her, was consistently 
keeping up with making minimum payments and by June 2017 had succeeded in reducing 
her balance very significantly. 
It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Studio Retails 
actions, first in opening the account and then in increasing the credit limit first to £200 
and then £250, would have caused Miss W to lose out. I also dont consider that 
Miss Ws account history, up until the point in December 2017 when she started 
incurring late payment fees, necessarily suggested her financial situation was worsening. And Im not persuaded that further enquiries into Miss Ws circumstances 
would have led Studio Retail to conclude that it should have taken a course of action 
that was significantly different to what it did. 
So, although I dont think Studio Retails actions were necessarily appropriate in all 
respects, I dont make any award as I dont think Miss W was caused any loss as a result.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman