DRN-1514980
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) closed his savings account 
without notifying him. Hes also unhappy about the service he received when he contacted 
RBS to understand why his account had been closed.
What happened
Mr B held current and instant saver accounts with RBS. In around September 2019 he 
logged into online banking and noticed his savings account wasnt showing. Mr B said he 
used his savings account infrequently. But he was intending to credit it with a large pension 
payment.
When Mr B contacted RBS to query the status of his savings account it informed him the 
account had been closed and, as it couldnt find any information relating to the account, it 
must be dormant.
Mr B contacted the RBS dormant account department who explained it wasnt able to trace 
the account from the information hed provided. It stated it couldnt assist him any further 
unless he was able to provide the account number and sort code.
Mr B subsequently spoke to customer services who was able to locate his savings account. 
But it told him hed need to speak to complaints, which he did. Mr B said his telephone 
discussions with RBS about the status of his account were protracted and took up around 4 
 hours of his time.
In RBS final response to Mr Bs complaint it explained that his savings account had been 
closed on 20 September 2019. It wasnt able to confirm the reason why this had happened. 
But it said the account closure had been in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Bs 
account. RBS paid Mr B £45 compensation to recognise the time hed spent on the 
telephone discussing his account. But Mr B wasnt happy with this as he wanted to know 
why his savings account had been closed. And he felt the compensation hed been paid 
didnt adequately reflect his experience. So, he referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator at our service reviewed Mr Bs complaint and recommended upholding it. 
They didnt think RBS had acted fairly and thought it should pay Mr B an additional £55 
compensation, bringing the total amount to £100. But RBS disagreed with our investigators 
recommendation and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about his complaint and I appreciate the reason why hes brought it to our service. My role is 
to assess whether I think RBS made a mistake, or treated Mr B unfairly, such that it needs to 
now put things right.  
Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr B and RBS, but Ill concentrate 
my decision on what I think is relevant to decide this complaint. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
RBS has provided evidence to our service which shows that in 2019 it made changes to a 
range of its deposit accounts, which included instant saver accounts. The effect of these 
changes meant that if a customer held an account that had been inactive for at least 12 
months and had a nil balance it would be closed. 
RBS told our service that, prior to closing an account, it would notify a customer of its 
intention to make their account inactive in line with its terms and conditions. But Mr B said he 
wasnt warned that his account would be closed or that it had subsequently been closed. 
RBS has shown our service a template of the closure letter it said it would have sent Mr B. 
But it hasnt been able to provide evidence showing that it sent letters to Mr B either before 
or after it closed his account. It says it no longer holds copies of correspondence that was 
sent. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B and RBS have said here. Im satisfied Mr B still 
wanted his savings account to remain open. While he used that account irregularly its clear 
from his account statements that he would typically use it to pay in pension payments on an 
adhoc basis. 
I think its likely, on balance, that if Mr B had received notification from RBS that it was 
intending to close his account hed have contacted it to ask it how he could ensure his 
account wouldnt be closed. So, Im not persuaded RBS properly notified him of either its 
intention to close his account or that it had closed his account. And I think that was an error 
on RBS part.
RBS said it closed Mr Bs account was due to a lack of activity over a 12 month period prior 
to its closure. RSB template letter states it would close accounts that had been empty and 
unused in the last year and it said in order to keep an account open an account would need 
to have a balance of at least £1.
When Mr Bs account was closed it had a nil balance. So, the empty criteria was satisfied 
here. But Im not persuaded the unused in the last year requirement was met. I say this 
because, having looked carefully at Mr Bs account activity in the 12 months prior to 20 
September 2019 (the date his account was closed), there was a credit of £1.50 on 15 July 
2019. This satisfies me Mr B used his account in the relevant period prior to its closure. So, I 
dont think its right to say there was a lack of activity insofar as Mr Bs account was 
concerned.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr B for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what 
happened RBS paid him £45 compensation. It thought that recognised the time hed spent in 
raising his concerns about his account. Its clear Mr B doesnt feel this fairly reflects the 
trouble and upset he was caused. 
Our investigator recommended that RBS should pay an overall total of £100 to resolve this 
complaint. But I can see RBS disagrees with this. So, Ive thought about what a fair offer to 
settle this complaint might look like here.Mr B told our investigator that, as a result of RBS closing his savings account, he was 
unable to credit his pension payment as hed intended. He also said this meant he had to 
open a new savings account, which resulted in a delay in receiving his pension payment of 
around two weeks. But I can see he subsequently informed our investigator that he decided 
not to open a new savings account following advice from a financial advice. And I havent 
seen any evidence that he incurred a financial loss as a result of his savings account being 
closed.
I thought about whether Mr B incurred any telephone expenses for the time he spent 
communicating with RBS about the status of his savings account. But I understand this was 
via a freephone number. So, Im satisfied I dont need to consider awarding compensation 
for telephone expenses here.
Ill turn now to awards for non-financial loss. When our service considers awarding 
compensation for trouble and upset there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate awards 
for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact RBS actions had on Mr B and to 
decide, within guidelines set by our service, how much compensation would be appropriate 
in the circumstances.
Here, I can understand how Mr B must have been shocked and upset to learn that his 
account had been closed without his knowledge. Like our investigator, I think RBS should 
have informed him why it had closed his account. I also think the reason could have been 
set out clearly in RBS final response to Mr Bs complaint. And I think the lack of candour 
added to the trouble and upset Mr B would have experienced here. I think the service from 
RBS could have been better. 
I recognise that Mr B spent a significant amount of time in trying to understand why his 
account had been closed. Ive listened to the call recordings RBS provided our service  its 
evident how frustrated Mr B felt. He says he spent 4  hours on the telephone discussing 
his concerns about his account with RBS. But RBS disputes this and said Mr B spent around 
2  hours communicating with it over the phone. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent 
seen enough to satisfy me that he spent 4  hours contacting RBS as hes said.
Im persuaded that 2  hours is still a protracted length of time to spend discussing what is, 
essentially a narrow complaint issue. It shouldnt have taken this long. And I think the time 
Mr B spent could have been minimised if RBS had informed him at the outset that his 
account had been closed due to inactivity. 
Like our investigator, I dont think the £45 compensation RBS has already paid Mr B 
adequately recognised the inconvenience and distress he was caused here. Im satisfied 
that that the additional £55 compensation recommended by our investigator is a fair amount 
of compensation thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mr B wouldve 
been caused. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have 
told RBS to pay. I understand that Mr B is now seeking a higher compensation award. But I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that a higher amount is warranted here. I therefore 
direct RBS to pay Mr B an additional £55 compensation to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons stated above. The Royal 
Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr B an additional £55 in compensation to resolve this 
complaint (taking the total amount to £100).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman