DRN-3097675
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the charges and fees that applies to accounts she holds with 
Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL). Shes also unhappy with the way it 
communicates with her.
Mrs B is being represented. All references to Mrs B will include submissions by her 
representative.
What happened
Mrs B has two accounts with IISL  a Stocks and Shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
and a Trading Account (the account). In summary, the events leading to Mrs Bs complaint 
are as follows:
Mrs B opened her accounts with NatWest who sold its trading arm to TD Direct 
Investing in 2014 (TDDI). IISL took over from TDDI in 2017; 
Information about the takeover by IISL was sent to clients including Mrs B on 5 June, 
23 October, and 14 December 2017 (takeover documents);
Since December 2017, Mrs Bs accounts have been subject to charges. She was 
informed of this in the takeover documents she received. Quarterly fees of £22.50 
were charged from 10 January 2018;
In April 2019 IISL notified clients that from 1 June 2019, it would be replacing its 
quarterly fee with a monthly fee of £9.99;
Up until January 2021, Mrs B was paying her fees by cheque. However, where there 
were arrears on the account, which happened on a number of occasions, IISL would 
deduct its fees from cash balances and on one occasion, it sold 29 shares from 
Mrs Bs account to cover outstanding fees;
When Mrs B was paying the fees by cheque, there were a number of occasions 
where the cheque didnt clear in time. And IISL would take from the cash balance 
before the cheque had cleared. When Mrs Bs account went into credit IISL sent 
cheques back to her;
At the end of 2020, Mrs B arranged for her payments to be taken by Direct Debit.
Mrs B complained about the overall service shed received from IISL including:
Mrs B wasnt happy about the takeover of her account by IISL;
She doesnt agree with its fees. Mrs B thought the fee of £9.99 was an annual fee not 
a monthly fee. And she didnt think she should be charged for a paper share 
certificate as this was provided for free by the previous provider;
Mrs B objected to IISL taking fees from her dividend payments, which formed part of 
her cash balance, when she was sending cheques to cover the fees; 
She considers IISL has taken duplicate payments for the outstanding fees; 
Mrs B says that despite asking for this on several occasions, she still hasnt been 
sent statements showing her how many shares she has in her account. 
IISL rejected Mrs Bs complaints. It noted it is an online, execution only broker who charges 
a fee for its service. It said that when it took over from the TDDI platform, if its services didnt 
suit the needs of any of its customers, they were free to transfer to another provider. It 
explained its process of selling shares to recover unpaid fees is detailed in its Terms of 
Business. And that all fees charged to Mrs B have been in line with its terms and have 
always been explained to her. IISL noted that Mrs B has now set up a Direct Debit for the 
fees and now these are paid on time. It said Mrs Bs statements show her the number of 
shares she has and are available, for free, via her online account.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She was satisfied that IISL had 
acted in line with its terms. Our investigator couldnt see that there had been any duplicate 
charges made. And she considered that when Mrs B asked IISL to send her paper 
certificates she was being correctly told about its charges for this service. Our investigator 
didnt think it was within our scope to challenge what businesses charge for certain services. 
She also thought IISL had provided clear notice of its takeover of Mrs Bs account.
Mrs Bs representative responded with additional points including that she questioned IISLs 
ability to fairly manage the accounts of ageing investors. The representative wants the 
ombudsman to decide on whether IISL has acted fairly in light of the lack of fact finding 
Compliance. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, on balance, Im satisfied that IISL has acted 
fairly and reasonably in Mrs Bs case. Before I explain why, I think its still important for me to 
recognise the strength of feeling Mrs B and her representative have about this matter. They 
have provided very detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
Ill also note here that my role isnt to punish the business for any regulatory breaches either, 
thats the role of the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to decide if 
IISL has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for any financial losses 
for which its responsible and/or compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
In terms of the takeover of Mrs Bs account by IISL as it has said, it didnt need the consent 
of clients to take over the other business. What it needed to do was to ensure that relevant 
customers had sufficiently clear information about the services it was going to provide 
including the level of applicable fees. This would help clients like Mrs B make informed 
choices about whether they wanted to continue using the service, or move to another 
provider, or to take some other appropriate action. I think the information provided by IISL 
about its takeover of Mrs Bs accounts, including the introduction of fees, was clear, fair and 
not misleading.
As set out above, Mrs B was sent several notices about the takeover and the new terms. 
Whilst I cant be sure whether she received emails sent by IISL, I can see that Mrs B did 
have a registered email account with the business and has been in contact with IISL on 
various occasions by phone. So, I think that its likely that Mrs B did receive the documents 
letting her know about IISL takeover, which included information about its fees.
Mrs B is unhappy about the way IISL sends her information which is usually through a 
secure message which she can access at any time via her online account. She says she doesnt believe anything has been sent by IISL. IISL said when customers migrated to its 
platform, they were advised that all communications would be sent electronically. 
Nonetheless, I can see that IISL has communicated with Mrs B over the phone. And it has 
sent her paper documents when she has requested them. All in all, I think the way IISL has 
communicated with Mrs B has been fair and reasonable. 
In respect of the actions IISL has taken to recover fees, the Terms of Business say: 21.1 All 
of your cash and investments in your Account(s) are subject to a general charge (which is a 
type of security interest) in our favour to cover any outstanding amounts you may owe to us 
for provision of the Services. We may enforce these rights against your cash or investments 
against you in accordance with this clause 21 and, where it is reasonable to do so, we may 
enforce these rights against your representatives. And under clause 21.2 it says: If you do 
not pay when due any amount owed by you to us then we may sell any of your assets held.
So, I think the actions IISL took to recover outstanding amounts was within its terms. I can 
also see that Mrs B was sent notices via her online account about the fees. This in turn 
prompted emails to be sent to her registered email address. Therefore, I dont think IISL has 
acted unreasonably when it sold Mrs Bs shares and/ or deducted the fees from her available 
cash balance. 
Whilst I know Mrs B says she wasnt charged fees for share certificates by the previous 
provider, what fees are now charged, is a commercial decision for IISL. I dont think it would 
be reasonable for me to say that IISL should not charge for the share certificate or for the 
other services it provides, when these have been designed to meet with its legitimate 
business requirements.
I know Mrs B considers she has been charged incorrectly and she doesnt know why 
cheques have been returned to her. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to show she has 
been charged more than the fees that were due. And the timing of the cheques meant IISL 
had already taken payment from her cash balance to cover the outstanding fees. I 
appreciate this was Mrs Bs preferred method of payment but, until the full amount was paid, 
I dont think IISL was obliged to wait for the cheques to clear. So, as it has explained to 
Mrs B, cheques have been returned because the fees had already been settled in line with 
its terms, which say it can take the outstanding amounts due from available cash balances.
Mrs B says that IISL has ignored her requests to send her statements showing how many 
shares she has in her accounts. But I can see that IISL did send her statements for both 
accounts at her request which covered the period 1 January 2019 to 2 March 2020. For the 
trading account this shows Mrs B originally had 4737 shares but this fell to 4708 following 
the sale of 29 shares to cover outstanding fees. Similarly, the ISA statement shows she 
owned 15012 shares during that period. This information was contained in the Description 
column of the statements. So, I think IISL acted fairly in providing her with the information 
she requested.
Mrs Bs representative says that IISL owes Mrs B a duty of care in the way that it 
communicates with her (Mrs B) as an elderly customer. The decision by IISL on how 
customers can access and manage their accounts is a commercial decision and I cant 
interfere with that. I can only look to see if the business has acted fairly and reasonably in 
applying its processes. In any event, Mrs B updated her email address, which would suggest 
she does have access to an email account. IISL has also provided information over the 
phone to Mrs B and in paper form when she has requested this. So, I think it has fairly 
accommodated her needs when it has been asked to do so.
I know the representative has also raised the issue of what she calls fact finding 
compliance. However, IISL offers an online, execution only service. So, there was no requirement for it to provide a fact finding service. It was for Mrs B to decide, based on the 
information she was given, whether the services being offered were suitable for her. As Ive 
said, I think IISL has provided her with clear, fair and not misleading information about what 
services it offers and the relevant fees.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed with this outcome, Im 
not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman