DRN-3700769
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC have not refunded a series of transactions he 
says he did not authorise.     
What happened
Mrs A, who is a secondary card holder on Mr As credit card account, raised a disputed 
transactions claim with Barclays on Mr As behalf. She said there were a number of cash 
withdrawals that Mr A and her did not recognise. These occurred between May and July of 
2021. Mrs A said that she had both the primary and secondary cards with her and that Mr A 
did not know his personal identification number (PIN) so could not have made the 
withdrawals. To be clear, the primary card was in Mr As name, and the secondary card was 
in Mrs As name, but Mr A was the account holder.
Barclays sent a final response letter on 15 February 2022 in which it explained that the 
genuine card was used for all the transactions and the correct PIN was used every time, with 
no failed attempts. Because of this, it was unwilling to refund the transactions. Mr and Mrs A 
disagreed and referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and asked some more questions to get a better 
understanding of what had happened. Mrs A confirmed that she always kept her secondary 
card with her in her purse, which was always in sight, so no-one else would have access to 
it. And only she knew her PIN, which was not written down anywhere. And that both her and 
Mr A did not know the PIN for the primary card, so could not have used it for cash 
withdrawals. 
Our investigator felt that as there was no reasonable explanation as to how a fraudster could 
have accessed the secondary card, which was the one used for the transactions, and there 
was no explanation as to how the PIN could have been compromised, Barclays was correct 
to decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with this outcome. They felt it was possible for the card to have 
been cloned and asked for a second opinion. As an informal agreement could not be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the findings made by the investigator for largely the same 
reasons, so I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasoning in more detail. 
Generally, Barclays is able to hold Mr A liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he made or otherwise authorised them himself. This 
position is confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and 
conditions of his account. It should be noted that as Mrs A has been added as a secondary 
card holder, Mr A has given his authority for any transactions she makes on the account. 
Looking at the banks records, Im satisfied that the genuine secondary card was used to 
make the cash withdrawals. While this is important, it isnt enough on its own to say Mr A is 
liable for the transactions. Barclays also has to show that its more likely than not that Mr A 
himself made or otherwise authorised for the withdrawals to be made. 
Looking at the evidence available, I can see that the correct PIN was used for each of the 
transactions, and there were no failed attempts. So the individual who made the withdrawals 
knew the correct PIN. Mrs A has said that she is the only one who knows the PIN for the 
secondary card, and she had not written it down anywhere for someone else to find. 
Considering this, its difficult for me to agree that anyone other than Mrs A made the 
withdrawals, as there was no opportunity for the PIN to be compromised. 
Mr and Mrs A have said that it is possible the secondary card had been cloned, which would 
explain how someone else could use the same card details while Mrs A had possession of 
the genuine one. Ive considered this, but looking at the evidence that Barclays has 
provided, I can see that the integrated circuit card, or chip, had been read during the 
withdrawals. And Barclays has confirmed this matches the chip of the genuine secondary 
credit card, meaning it is not a cloned card that was used.
Ive also considered that there have been genuine credit card transactions made in-between 
the disputed cash withdrawals. Sometimes on the same day. For example, on 17 July 2021, 
there is an undisputed payment made in a retail shop at 13:54, and then a dispute cash 
withdrawal for £40 at 14:08, just 12 minutes later. As Im satisfied the genuine secondary 
card was used to make the cash withdrawals, this would mean a fraudster would have had 
to repeatedly gain access to the secondary credit card to make the disputed withdrawals, 
and then return it without Mrs A knowing. As Mrs A has said she always had sight of the 
secondary credit card, I think this is unlikely. 
Having carefully considered all the evidence available to me, I think Barclays have acted 
fairly in declining Mr As claim for the disputed transactions, on the basis I think its more 
likely Mr A authorised for the payments to be made.     
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr As complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman