DRN-2587240
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund him what he lost in a scam.
What happened
Mr M found a property to rent in Tenerife. The estate agent showed him round it whilst there 
were still people living in it. Mr M agreed to rent the property and was asked to pay €2000 to 
the agents account as a deposit. On 24 September 2021 Mr M made a debit card payment 
of £1,839 through A, a money transfer company. The payment was debited from his account 
on 28 September 2020. 
Mr M was later given the keys to the property, but when he went there the keys didnt work 
and the people who were in it when he looked round were still there. They said they didnt 
speak English and threatened to call the police if Mr M didnt leave. Mr M was also unable to 
get hold of the agent and when he visited the address hed been given for the agent there 
was no office. Mr M said he and his family were left destitute and had to live in hostels.  
Mr M reported the scam to TSB on 21 October 2020. 
What TSB say
Mr M authorised and authenticated the payment. When it was made TSB flagged it for a 
security check and Mr M confirmed it was genuine. Mr M said it was for a deposit and at this 
stage there was no reason to believe a further conversation would have stopped him from 
making the payment as there was no reason to believe it wasnt genuine.  
TSB raised a chargeback claim with A on 23 October 2020, but it was defended as A 
provided the service. TSB noted it has no chargeback rights for the payment made by A to 
the agent.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said TSB identified the transaction as 
potentially fraudulent and discussed it with Mr M in a telephone call. Mr M confirmed he had 
seen the property and the payment was genuine. By the time the scam was reported A had 
moved the funds on so TSB was unable to recover them. And claims under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75 CCA) and chargeback were not likely to be successful. The 
investigator noted that even so, TSB attempted a chargeback, but it was defended by A  as 
it had provided the service it was meant to. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he never had the keys to the property 
as the investigator said and TSB had failed to respond to emails. Mr M asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint, so its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and will explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank or building society is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account.
Authorisation
A payment transaction is regarded as having been authorised by the payer only if the payer 
has given his or her consent to the execution of the payment transaction. The regulations go 
on to say that such consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure 
agreed between the payer and its payment service provider. The form and procedure are 
usually set out in the terms and conditions.
In this case Im satisfied Mr M authorised the transaction when he gave his card details to A. 
Although I note that at the time Mr M made it he didnt know the payment was being sent to 
a fraudster. 
Did TSB act reasonably when the payment was made?
The payment Mr M made to the fake agent exceeded recent payments from his account but 
wasnt so great that Id have expected TBS to have flagged it as particularly unusual or 
suspicious. TSB flagged it though and contacted Mr M about it. TSB has been able to 
provide the first part of this call, in which TSB asked Mr M questions to verify it was him 
calling. But TSB has been unable to provide me with the remainder of the call in which the 
transaction was discussed. So I have to consider the other evidence that is available and 
what is most likely to have happened.
TSB has provided records to confirm Mr M confirmed the payment was genuine, suggesting 
that some kind of conversation about it took place. And Mr M hasnt suggested that at the 
time he made the payment he had any reason to suspect the agent was anything other than 
genuine or that the property he looked round wasnt actually available for rent. These facts 
only came to light when Mr M was given the keys to the property and found they didnt fit the 
lock and the agent didnt have an office at the address Mr M had been given. So it seems to 
me that if TSB had asked Mr M questions about the reason for the payment his answers 
wouldnt have raised any suspicion that he might be the victim of a scam. Mr M had seen the 
property, met the agent and believed the payment to be genuine. I also dont consider the 
fact Mr M was paying a money transfer company to be unusual, as he was abroad at the 
time. Overall, whilst it would have been helpful to have listened to the call, I consider there is 
sufficient evidence to say that TSB acted reasonably at the time the payment was made. 
I appreciate that TSB has a fraud guarantee. It hasnt considered Mr Ms complaint under it 
though, because Mr M transferred funds to A rather than directly to the scammer. Under the 
section headed, Are there any times the guarantee doesnt apply? TSB say, 
The guarantee doesnt cover non-fraudulent purchase disputes. This is where you pay for 
something with your TSB account, from a genuine merchant, and the good or service doesnt 
meet your expectations. But, if you feel youve been misled by the seller, you may be able to 
claim under the chargeback rules or the Consumer Credit Act. This will depend on whether you 
used your debit or credit account.
In Mr Ms case, he paid a genuine merchant - A  and the purchase wasnt fraudulent. A 
provided the service expected. In the circumstances I consider TBS has acted reasonably in 
not refunding Mr M under its fraud guarantee. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974Section 75 CCA makes the provider of credit (TSB in this case) equally liable with the 
supplier where there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of 
goods or services financed by the credit. It doesnt apply to debit card payments like the one 
Mr M made and so Mr M is unable to make a S75 CCA claim. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process that allows debit and credit card holders to reverse a transaction 
when theres a problem with the goods or services they have purchased. It is organised and 
run through the overarching card scheme (Visa and Mastercard predominantly) but 
customers wishing to use the service must go through their card issuer (Nationwide in this 
case). The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and banks and building societies are not under 
any formal obligation to submit a chargeback claim. But this services view is that it is good 
practice for a bank to make a chargeback claim where the right exists and there is a 
reasonable prospect of success.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund and it was open to A to defend it  and this is what 
happened in this case. In the circumstances of this case I dont think TSB could reasonably 
have done anything more. A provided the service it was meant to and so a chargeback claim 
against it is unlikely to succeed.
Overall, whilst Im sorry Mr M has lost out as a result of this scam, I cant reasonably hold 
Nationwide responsible. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman