DRN-4112855
The complaint
Ms M complains about the acts of Mr M2. She says he gave her unsuitable advice to switch 
her pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to make a high-risk investment. She 
says Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter Financial) is responsible because Mr M2 was 
with a business that was an appointed representative of it at the relevant time. 
What happened
I can see from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register that Mr M2 worked for a 
business called Mortgage Choices (now Choices Financial Ltd). According to the FCA 
register, that business has been an appointed representative of several different businesses:
Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited (Quilter Mortgage) between 2 November 2006 and 
7 December 2010.
Quilter Financial between 8 October 2007 and 7 December 2010.
First Complete between 15 December 2010 and 28 January 2011 and from 
11 May 2011 until now.
Quilters previous name was Intrinsic so references to Intrinsic in this decision should be 
read as Quilter.
Ms M says her partner had been advised by Mr M2 and he suggested that she contact him 
for advice too. She says there were several meetings where Mr M2 advised her to switch her 
pension to a SIPP and invest in a resort. She says he advised her to buy jointly with her 
partner to be able to afford a better quality apartment.
Ms M says Mr M2 told her the scheme was backed by the government and that hed 
invested in it himself. The projections that were provided showed very good income returns 
and significantly increased capital values and she says she wasnt told about any risks or 
that the apartment would need to be sold before she could access her pension funds. 
A reservation form was signed on 26 January 2010. Ms M invested jointly with her partner 
with the intention that 45% would be paid initially and the remaining 55% on the completion 
of the resort.
In March 2010 Ms Ms partner emailed Mr M2 to say theyd decided to not go ahead. Mr M2 
replied on 24 March 2010 saying:
I would not be talking to my family and clients about this investment opportunity if I 
did not think it was a massive opportunity to maximise your existing provisions and 
make retirement look a lot more comfortable than it does at present. I would urge you 
to give it some more thought and if you would like me to speak to [Ms M] again I 
would be happy to.
That email was sent from a personal email account, but it had a footer which read:
Mortgage Choices is an appointed representative of Intrinsic Financial Planning 
Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority
Ms M and her partner decided to go ahead after reassurances. The SIPP application was 
done in June 2010. The application form referred to CIB (Life & Pensions) Ltd (CIB) as 
Ms Ms financial adviser. Ms M says this firm was referred to her as part of the package of 
organising the SIPP and investment, but she says she never met anyone from that business 
and only received a report from it reiterating the advice Mr M2 had already given her.
The SIPP was set up in August 2010 and Ms Ms pension  £33,328.43  was switched to it. 
£19,791 was paid to The Resort Group from Ms Ms SIPP on 29 November 2010 and Ms M 
and her partner entered a promissory contract to buy an apartment. Further payments were 
made from Ms Ms SIPP on 21 February 2012; 28 September 2012; and 8 September 2020 
 of £5,500, £4,700 and £1,320.97 respectively.
In August 2014, a further promissory contract replaced the first one and Ms M and her 
partners interest in all of one apartment was transferred to a half-share of a different 
apartment. 
It hasnt been possible to sell the apartment and Ms M says her investment is therefore 
worthless.
Ms M made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about CIB and 
received compensation, but this didnt fully compensate her, so she obtained a reassignment 
of rights from the FSCS to complain about Quilter Financial.
Quilter Mortgage responded to the complaint. It said there was no evidence Mr M2 had given 
advice as either Quilter Mortgage or Quilter Financial. It said it had no business relationship 
with The Resort Group and had received no renumeration. And it said Mr M2 had been a 
mortgage adviser with Quilter Mortgage and was only authorised to give advice on 
mortgages and protection products.
An investigator was satisfied we couldnt consider Ms Ms complaint against either 
Quilter Mortgage or Quilter Financial because he said there was no evidence Mr M2 had 
given advice representing either of those businesses. Ms M didnt agree and said its 
possible for two firms to carry out regulated activities at the same time. The issue was 
therefore passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was satisfied Mr M2 had advised Ms M and that hed 
done so whilst acting for Quilter Financial. I was satisfied Quilter Financial was responsible 
for the acts complained about and that this service could therefore look at Ms Ms complaint 
about Quilter Financial. I was also satisfied that complaint should be upheld.
Quilter Financial replied to say it has nothing further to add. Ms Ms representative replied 
saying she and it agree with my provisional decision on jurisdiction and merits. But in terms 
of the compensation Id proposed, it said if the compensation is paid into Ms Ms pension as 
set out in my provisional decision, Ms M would immediately need to withdraw a significant 
portion of it to repay the FSCS which would cause unintended issues. So, it asked me to 
direct that the money be paid to Ms M instead, or that Ms M be given the choice so she can 
seek advice. 
Having reconsidered my provisional findings, Im satisfied my decision on jurisdiction and 
merits hasnt changed. Ive therefore repeated my provisional findings below with Ms Ms 
additional point on compensation addressed in that section.What Ive decided  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is one that the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to consider.
Which business the complaint should be against
Quilter Financial and Quilter Mortgage both say that the complaint should be set up against 
Quilter Mortgage.
Quilter Mortgage says Mortgage Choices was appointed by both it and Quilter Financial, but 
the offer letter of 26 October 2006 (signed 4 November 2006) makes it clear that it will be 
representing Quilter Mortgage. It provided a copy of this offer letter which reads:
We are delighted to offer you a Membership Agreement representing Intrinsic 
Mortgage Planning Limited. This letter (the Offer) sets out the terms on which we 
can offer you a Membership Agreement and supersedes any previous offers you may 
have received
The Membership Agreement incorporates the Individual Rates Document, the 
Compliance Manual (available through Intrinsics Website) and the Sales Process all 
as expressly modified or augmented by this Offer. The Membership Agreement 
incorporating these documents therefore sets out the terms of the agreement 
between you and Intrinsic
You will be required to use business stationery approved by Intrinsic, including 
letterheads and business cards, so that you can correctly represent your status as an 
appointed representative of Intrinsic Mortgage Planning
We would like to welcome you to Intrinsic Mortgage Planning Limited and we look 
forward to working with you over the coming years as you build your business.
It also says Mr M2s Quilter number was an MPA number rather than a FPA number 
which shows he was a mortgage planner rather than a financial planner. And its referred to 
various documents where Mr M2 was referred to as a mortgage planner and where Mr M2 
had filled in N/A on documentation when a FCA number was requested. As well as the 
proposition letter sent to Mortgage Choices on 27 September 2006 which only talked about 
protection, mortgage and general insurance business.
Ive considered these points carefully, but I dont agree that Quilter Mortgage is the correct 
business. As Quilter Financial acknowledges and as the FCA register shows, 
Mortgage Choices was appointed by both Quilter Financial and Quilter Mortgage. The 
appointed representative agreement Mortgage Choices had stated The Member is an 
Appointed Representative of Intrinsic with Intrinsic defined as Intrinsic Financial Planning 
Limited and Intrinsic Mortgage Planning Limited.
I note what Quilter Financial says about the offer and proposition letters and the other 
documentation and sources that refer to Mr M2 as a mortgage planner. But the agreement 
that was in place didnt restrict Mortgage Choices to representing Quilter Mortgage. And the 
reality of the situation is that Mr M2 held himself out as representing Quilter Financial when 
he sent an email with a footer which read:
Mortgage Choices is an appointed representative of Intrinsic Financial Planning 
Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services AuthorityI havent seen anywhere that Mr M2 held himself out as representing Quilter Mortgage to 
Ms M and it was Quilter Financial Ms M complained to. Taking everything into account, Im 
satisfied the complaint was correctly set up against Quilter Financial.
Responsibility
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Mortgage Choices (and therefore Mr M2) 
wasnt directly authorised. Instead, it was an appointed representative of Quilter Financial. 
Quilter Financial is an authorised firm. Its authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of 
regulated activities including advising on investments and arranging deals in investments. 
We can therefore consider complaints about Quilter. And this includes some complaints 
about its appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Quilter was authorised to do. 
To decide whether Quilter Financial is responsible here, there are three issues I need to 
consider:
What are the specific acts Ms M has complained about?Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Quilter Financial accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Ms M has complained about?
Ms M complains Mr M2 gave her unsuitable advice to switch her pension to a SIPP to make 
a high-risk property investment.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). The rights under a personal pension scheme (which includes Ms Ms 
previous pension and the SIPP she moved to) are specified as investments by a provision in 
Article 82 RAO and its likely the investment she made was also such an investment. 
Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. 
Ms M says Mr M2 advised her to move her pension to make the investment and although 
another business later became involved, she never met anyone from that business, and it 
simply repeated the advice Mr M2 had already given her. Quilter Financial says Mr M2 didnt 
give advice and it was CIB that did.
Ive thought carefully about all the evidence. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied its 
most likely Mr M2 advised Ms M to switch her pension and make the investment she did. 
I accept Quilter Financial has no record of Ms M and theres no evidence of Mr M2 having 
done a suitability report. But although suitability reports are one of the indicators that advice 
was given, the absence of one doesnt mean advice wasnt given.
In the circumstances here, there are several things that satisfy me its most likely Mr M2 
advised Ms M:
Ms Ms recollections of the conversations she and her partner had with Mr M2 
suggest Mr M2 gave advice. Ms M has clearly and consistently said Mr M2 
suggested she move her pension as this would benefit her. Ive found her 
recollections from the time to be detailed and plausible and its clear she was only 
aware of the investment because of Mr M2.
On 24 March 2010, Mr M2 referred to the switch and investment as a massive 
opportunity to maximise your existing provisions and make retirement look a lot more 
comfortable than it does at present. Its clear to me that irrespective of the later 
involvement of another adviser, Mr M2 gave advice.PERG 8.28 sets out guidance from the FCA on the difference between advice and 
information. At the time, PERG 8.28.1G said:
In the [FCAs] view, advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser. 
In effect, it is a recommendation as to a course of action. Information, on the other 
hand, involves statements of facts or figures.
What Mr M2 said clearly goes beyond statements of facts and figures. By saying he thought 
the switch was a massive opportunity that would make Ms Ms retirement look a lot more 
comfortable he gave his opinion.
Quilter Financial says it was CIB  which Ms M says she was later introduced to  that 
advised her. Ive thought about this carefully. But even if Ms M did later receive advice from 
another business, that doesnt mean Mr M2 didnt also give advice.
So, my conclusion is that Mr M2 did give advice to Ms M about the SIPP and investment and 
so a regulated activity took place.
Did Quilter Financial accept responsibility for those acts?
Which business was Mr M2 acting for?
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Mr M2 was acting for Quilter Financial when he 
advised Ms M. Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Quilter Financial accepted 
responsibility under the agreement it had with Mortgage Choices.
The agreement with Mortgage Choices
The appointed representative agreement between Quilter Financial and Mortgage Choices 
says:
APPOINTMENT AND STATUS
The Member is an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic for the purpose only of 
carrying on the Business.
The Member is not permitted to represent other counterparties or to carry on any 
other Regulated Activity or to promote, sell or advise on any financial services or 
plans other than the Plans without the express written consent of Intrinsic, except 
that the Member may make introductions to Independent Financial Advisers as 
permitted by Intrinsic from time to time.
Business was defined as:
the business of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set 
out in this Agreement.
And Plan was defined as
any policy, investment agreement, mortgage or other agreement or service specified 
from time to time in this Agreement.Ive also been given a contract headed APPOINTMENT UNDER SECTION 39 FINANCIAL 
SERVIES AND MARKETS ACT 2000 REGISTERED INDIVIDUAL. This was signed by 
Mr M2 and Intrinsic on 10 November 2006 and says:
You are appointed to undertake such Selling Activities as Intrinsic has trained you to 
undertake.
With Selling Activities defined as:
Activities constituting Regulated Activity carried out under the Registered Individuals 
contract with the Member or otherwise.
The agreement therefore seems to envisage advice being given on policies and investment 
agreements and when the investigator asked Quilter Financial to point to where Mr M2s 
permissions had been restricted to mortgages, it didnt do so.
So, Im satisfied that Quilter Financial did accept responsibility for Mr M2 advising Ms M to 
switch her pension and invest in the resort she invested in. 
My decision  jurisdiction 
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Quilter Financial is responsible under Section 39 
FSMA for the acts being complained about and this is a complaint that we can look at.
What Ive decided  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's my view that I have jurisdiction and that I have all the information I need to look into 
Ms Ms complaint. Given the nature of our role to resolve complaints which are within our 
jurisdiction speedily and with minimal formality, I now set out my conclusions on the merits of 
Ms Ms complaint also. 
Ms M has told us that shes generally cautious financially and that the pension complained 
about was her only pension provision. She says she had a small amount of savings in a 
cash ISA but had no experience of investments and no knowledge of investment risk or 
pension structures. She says she now knows the investment she made involved more risk 
than she was prepared to take.
As previously mentioned, a fact find from the time unfortunately isnt available. I havent seen 
any justification for switching a pension that it seems Ms M was broadly happy with. It seems 
Mr M2s only reason for recommending the switch was so that Ms M could make the 
investment she did. And I havent seen any documentary record of why this recommendation 
was made.
The investment Ms M made was unregulated and high-risk. Everything Ive seen suggests 
Ms M was an ordinary retail investor and theres nothing that suggests to me she was the 
sophisticated type of investor for which unregulated high-risk investments would be suitable. 
Theres also nothing that suggests she could afford to take significant risks with her 
investments. Mr M2 should have known all of this.
In these circumstances Im satisfied advice to switch Ms Ms pension to a SIPP to invest in 
an apartment through The Resort Group wasnt suitable and should never have been made as a recommendation. Im satisfied that if Mr M2 hadnt given unsuitable advice, Ms M would 
have left her pension as it was.
Quilter Financial has commented on the fact CIB gave advice. But this decision is about 
Quilter Financials responsibility. And because Im satisfied Ms M wouldnt have moved her 
pension to a SIPP to make the investment she did if Mr M2 hadnt given the unsuitable 
advice he did, I think its fair to ask Quilter Financial to compensate Ms M for the full 
measure of the loss she suffered from moving her pension and making the investment she 
did.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation 
(DISP 3.7.2R). Another business may also have given Ms M advice, but Quilter Financial 
had its own distinct regulatory obligations which, if met, Im satisfied would have resulted in 
the pension move to the SIPP not taking place.
In making these findings, I take account of the potential contribution made by other parties to 
the losses suffered by Ms M. In my view, in considering what fair compensation looks like in 
this case, its reasonable to make an award against Quilter Financial that requires it to 
compensate Ms M for the full measure of her loss. But for Quilter Financials failings, Ms Ms 
pension move wouldnt have occurred.
Im not asking Quilter Financial to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That 
another party might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter and that fact 
shouldnt impact on Ms Ms right to compensation from Quilter Financial for the full amount 
of her loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms M 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I acknowledge that Ms M was able to receive compensation from the FSCS in relation to 
CIB. However, the terms of the reassignment of rights require her to return any 
compensation paid by the FSCS in the event this complaint is successful. So, Ill make no 
allowance for what has been paid by the FSCS. Itll be for Ms M to make the arrangements 
to make any repayments she needs to make to the FSCS. However, I note the comments 
Ms Ms representative made about the issues she might incur as a result of repaying the 
money if the compensation is paid into her pension. For that reason, Ive amended my 
decision to require the compensation to be paid direct to Ms M.
I take the view that Ms M wouldnt have moved her pension if everything had happened as it 
should have. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms M's 
circumstances and objectives at the time.
In summary, Quilter Financial should:
1. Calculate the loss Ms M has suffered as a result of making the switch and 
investment.
2. Take ownership of the investment held in the SIPP if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss to Ms M direct, taking into account the necessary 
adjustments set out below.4. Pay Ms Ms SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event shes not now able to close 
her SIPP.
5. Pay compensation of £500 for the trouble and upset caused to Ms M.
6. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 28 days of notification 
of acceptance by Ms M.
Ill explain how Quilter Financial should carry out the calculation set out above in further 
detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Ms M has suffered as a result of making the switch and 
investment
To do this, Quilter Financial should work out the likely value of Ms Ms pension as at the date 
of my decision, had she left it where it was instead of switching to the SIPP.
Quilter Financial should ask Ms Ms former pension provider to calculate the current notional 
transfer value had she not switched her pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a 
notional valuation, then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as 
published by the Bank of England should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a 
reasonable proxy for the type of returns that could have been achieved if the pension hadnt 
been switched.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the date 
of my decision and this will show the loss Ms M has suffered.
Any additional sum that Ms M paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculation proportionately at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted 
proportionately from the fair value calculations at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter Financial totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end.
2. Take ownership of the investment
Ideally, the asset in the SIPP  the investment  could be removed from the SIPP. Ms M 
would then be able to close the SIPP, if she wishes, and avoid paying further fees for the 
SIPP. For calculating compensation, Quilter Financial should agree an amount with the SIPP 
provider as a commercial value for the investment. It should then pay the sum agreed plus 
any costs and take ownership of it.
If Quilter Financial is able to purchase the investment, then the price paid should be allowed 
for in the current transfer value (because itll have been paid into the SIPP to secure the 
investment).
If Quilter Financial is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investment, it should 
give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Quilter Financial may then 
ask Ms M to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the 
SIPP might receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any 
tax and charges on the amount Ms M may receive from the investment and any eventual 
sums shed be able to access from the SIPP. Quilter Financial will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.3. Pay compensation to Ms M for the loss shes suffered in (1)
The compensation should be paid to Ms M direct for the reasons set out above. But had the 
compensation been paid into Ms Ms pension, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to Ms M should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Ms Ms marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Ms M is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in 
the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms M would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of 
the total amount.
4. SIPP fees
If Ms M is unable to close her SIPP once compensation has been paid, Quilter Financial 
should pay an amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the 
most recent years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Ms M would not 
be in the SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So, it wouldnt be fair for her to have to pay the 
fees to keep it open. And Im satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for things to be 
sorted out with the investment and the SIPP to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
Pay Ms M £500 for the trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Ms M has been caused 
significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of, in effect, all of her 
pension fund. I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for that upset.
6. Pay interest
Quilter Financial should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being 
notified that Ms M has accepted my decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due 
is to be paid from the date of the decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple 
interest per year. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter Financial 
deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms M how much has been taken off. 
Quilter Financial should give Ms M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms M 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint and require Quilter Financial Services Ltd to 
pay Ms M fair compensation as set out above.
Quilter Financial Services Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Ms M in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman