DRN-1657083
The complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of his daughter Mrs G that Erudio Student Loans Limited has 
incorrectly refused a deferment of Mrs Gs student loan repayments. 
What happened
Mr R applied for a deferment of Mrs Gs student loan repayments in September 2018. This 
application was declined as Erudio said Mrs Gs income was above the threshold for 
deferment. Mr R on behalf of his daughter entered into lengthy correspondence with Erudio 
following this decision and asked it to reconsider. Erudio refused, and a final response letter 
was sent in January 2019. At this point Mr R told Erudio that Mrs G wasnt working and 
couldnt pay back the loan. Erudio suggested that a further application for deferment was 
made. This was submitted in March 2019. 
Erudio asked for further information about Mrs Gs employment and a letter was provided 
from Mrs Gs employer about her income. Based on this information, Erudio calculated that 
Mrs Gs income was still over the threshold and so this application for a deferment was also 
refused. As there had been no payment to the account since it became due in September 
2018 Erudio took steps to default the account.
Mr R wasnt happy with Erudio and says that the period of unemployment should be taken 
into account when calculating the gross annual income. So, he brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt think Erudio had done anything 
wrong. He thought that the deferment request had been correctly refused based on the 
income information and that given the time that repayment had been outstanding it wasnt 
wrong for Erudio to default the account.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He replied to say in 
summary that the delay by Erudio in dealing with the deferment request meant that Mrs G 
didnt qualify and that the period of unemployment should be taken into account when 
calculating the gross income for the year.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the point Mr R is making about the calculation of annual income and I can see 
why he considers it is unfair that a deferment wasnt granted to his daughter. I have looked 
at the relevant regulations and I am sorry to disappoint Mr R and his daughter, but I agree 
with the investigator and I cant say that Erudio has done anything wrong.
As the investigator has explained to Mr R, this service cant look at the refusal of the earlier 
deferment request as it wasnt brought to us in time. But it is relevant background 
information about how the current complaint has come about.
When Mr R applied for a deferment request in March 2019 his daughter had not been 
working between 18 September 2018 and 28 January 2019. But on 28 January 2019 she 
started a new job and at the time of the deferment request she was earning above the 
threshold for deferment.
The deferment request is a forward-looking exercise. The Student Loans Regulations 1988 
state that a deferral can be granted if the gross income for the relevant month is not more 
than the deferment level and that the gross monthly average for the following 3 months will 
not, or is unlikely to be, more than the deferment level.
The deferment level is set between 1 September and 31 August and for the September 2018 
to August 2019 period the deferment level was a gross annual income of £30,737. In the 
month of March 2019 taking Mrs Gs monthly income and multiplying it by 12 takes Mrs G 
over the deferment level. So, I cant say Erudio was wrong to refuse the deferment.
If Mr R had applied for the deferment in October 2018 when Mrs G wasnt working, then it is 
likely it would have been granted even though she went on to get a job earning over the 
threshold amount a few months later. I cant see that Mr R made the second deferment 
request until after Mrs G had gone back to work so I cant say that Erudio is at fault.  
As I said at the outset, I understand why Mr R is complaining that the earlier period of 
unemployment was not considered because overall for the year September 2018 to August 
2019 Mrs G will not have earned above the deferment amount. But the regulations dont 
operate that way and so the earlier period of employment isnt taken into account when 
deciding whether Mrs G is entitled to defer repayments because it is about what Mrs G will 
be earning in the coming months.
As Erudio hasnt made any error I cant ask it to re-instate the loan or defer any repayments. 
It has acted correctly by defaulting the loan after payments werent made. I cant ask Erudio 
to do anything more. If Mrs G is having difficulty making repayments, I would expect Erudio 
to act positively and sympathetically in arranging a repayment plan. 
     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 
9 November 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman