DRN-3720967
The complaint
Mrs S complains that the car she acquired financed through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMW) is of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs S is represented in her complaint by her husband, Mr J. For the sake of simplicity in this 
decision I have referred to all the submissions from Mr J as being made by Mrs S. In 
November 2020 Mrs S was supplied a used car, financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW. She said from around May 2021 she found flaws with the vehicle, 
including the DAB radio cutting out frequently and the satellite navigation (SATNAV) failing 
to update in real time, on one occasion almost causing a road traffic accident. In addition, 
there was a rattle in the boot and the steering wheel developed marks. Mrs S took the car 
back to the dealership on more than one occasion. The dealership couldnt find a fault with 
the SATNAV or the radio despite Mrs S providing her own video evidence. It said the marks 
on the steering wheel were not a manufacturing defect. With regards to the boot trim the 
dealership said this could be repaired but it would need to order an additional part. Mrs S 
also said BMW kept offering to buy back the car and offered another one with a more 
expensive agreement.
Mrs S brought a complaint to BMW. In it she said proper investigations of the faults with the 
DAB radio, SATNAV and the steering wheel werent carried out and technical reports of work 
done were not provided. She said a courtesy car she was given with a similar specification 
didnt appear to have these faults.
In its final response BMW said it had spoken to the dealership and been advised that no fault 
was found with the SATNAV and Radio. Mrs S wasnt satisfied and brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator concluded there wasnt enough evidence to say there was a fault with the 
car. Mrs S disagreed with the findings and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. She 
said that while she agreed that wear and tear might be the case with the steering wheel and 
boot lid, she questioned how this could be the case with the SATNAV and Radio. She went 
on to say that BMW had refused to accept her video evidence proving the issues with the 
car. The investigator had noted that BMW should repair the boot lid within four weeks but 
Mrs S noted that the investigator hadnt addressed the fact that BMW hadnt sorted the boot 
lid in the time it said it would.
On 5 September I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Mrs S signed the agreement on 18 November and collected the car on 21 November 
2020 and said she started finding faults around May 2021. Her first email 
correspondence to BMW regarding the faults is dated 17 May, which indicates the 
faults were likely present or developing within the first six months of the contract.
BMW accepted that the rattle in the boot was because of a manufacturers defect. 
But that the white marks on the steering wheel were not. Ive seen a photo of these 
marks. As these marks developed over time its difficult to conclude with the evidence 
provided whether they were apparent or developing at the point of sale. And its quite 
possible they appeared as a result of wear and tear. So, I cannot safely say they 
were the result of a manufacturer defect. Mrs S reported the issues with the SATNAV 
and Radio repeatedly over a sustained period of time. The dealership did look at the 
car and reported the following in an invoice dated 27 August:
Investigated DAB cuts out. Tested vehicle in local area to dealer and was 
unable to get DAB to fault. Unlike FM that may get crackly when reception is 
poor DAB will just cut out and coverage is not as much as FM across the UK.
Investigated marks on the steering wheel, these have been inspected by our 
Warranty Department and this is not a manufacturing defect. We can have 
this repaired for £120 plus VAT.
Investigated RTTI operation being too slow and tested car and confirm RTTI 
is working as expected and comparably with a similar specified vehicle.
(RTTI is Real Time Traffic Information)
Ive no reason to doubt the car was checked for these faults and Im not disputing 
these were the findings at that time. I can see that BMW offered to buy back the car 
but that this was rejected by Mrs S on the grounds that this would mean entering a 
new more expensive agreement for another car. But Mrs S said the problems with 
SATNAV and Radio continued to occur. She asked for an independent inspection 
and provided her own video evidence. In its final response BMW said this wasnt 
necessary. 
Ive looked at the videos supplied by Mrs S and I consider that an independent 
inspection was warranted so I asked Mrs S if she would consider commissioning one. 
Mrs S commissioned an inspection by an independent BMW specialist. 
The invoice said: Investigated intermittent loss of radio reception. Downloaded fault 
codes and studied live data, also Maps/SATNAV, not keeping real time information. 
Checked for updates and made sure all programmes up to date.
Miss S said the independent BMW specialist diagnosed and rectified the faults with 
the car. She said she tested the car on the same routes where she encountered 
problems during journeys. There were road closures which the SATNAV picked up 
on and rerouted her accordingly. The car was also taken on a long road trip and the 
maps provided live updates. She went on to say the DAB radio hasnt knocked out 
once since she received the car back from the BMW specialist. The signal has 
remained strong and consistent. 
Im pleased to see that the problems with the SATNAV and DAB radio have been 
rectified. But given the apparent ease and speed of the independent specialist to 
rectify the problems I wonder why these tests werent carried out by the dealership. I 
consider had it done so the car wouldve been fixed a lot sooner and without the 
subsequent inconvenience to Mrs S.
In her complaint Mrs S asked for a full refund of what she had paid plus the same 
interest that BMW have charged her, 5.9%. She asked for £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience and for a refund of one month for the loss of use of the car.
As the car SATNAV and DAB are fixed, I wont be asking BMW to unwind the finance 
agreement. I do understand Mrs Ss strength of feeling regarding compensation. She says she and her husband have had sleepless night and had to take time off work to 
try and resolve the issue only to be told the same thing by BMW over and over. She 
also said they spent several hours drafting complaints, looking for information and on 
phone calls as well as visits to the garage. Regrettably, its not within my power to 
award any compensation to Mr J, as he is not the complainant.
I do think BMW could have arranged for the car to be inspected sooner on the basis 
that Mrs S was able to provide video evidence. And Mrs S has been inconvenienced 
by having to chase the issues with the SATNAV and Radio and with the time it has 
taken to get the boot lid fixed. Subject to any further information I might receive Im 
minded to instruct BMW to pay Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience this 
has caused her. I understand this is less than Mrs S has asked for but it is in line with 
our guidelines and what I would expect under the circumstances.
I also agree that a refund of one monthly payment is fair and reasonable for the loss 
of use of the car while being inspected and for the unreliable features of the SATNAV 
and Radio. Mrs S paid for the inspection and I find it fair and reasonable for BMW to 
refund the cost of this, £90.
After reviewing the independent inspection BMW had nothing further to add. Mrs S provided 
some additional comments which I have responded to below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied my provisional decision still stands. 
Referring to my provisional decision where I said Mrs S had asked for one-month refund for 
loss of use of the vehicle, Mrs S said that this wasnt what she had suggested in her initial 
complaint. She said loss of radio and SATNAV was persistent for 14 months and this is 
something she had to live with daily. She said compensation for this amounted to more than 
one months refund. 
In her initial complaint I can see Mrs S asked for a full refund of payments, so I apologise for 
my error above. I do understand that problems with SATNAV and radio persisted and I can 
appreciate that this was frustrating for Mrs S. But Mrs S still had full use of the car over this 
period except when it was in the garage. And the problems that persisted were intermittent. 
As the problems have been corrected now my decision is based on what is proportionate 
and I remain of the view that a one month refund is fair and reasonable.  
Mrs S also said that while she appreciated that her husband, Mr J, is not the main 
complainant, he did have to take emergency leave to deal with the car. She said she had 
been unable to take the time off so it had been left to her husband to take time off to arrange 
the independent inspection. She said she wanted to make this a priority and get the 
inspection done as quickly as possible. She believed her husbands time should be 
considered for compensation. 
The rules under which I am obliged to operate are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
Rules published as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. These say we 
can only look at complaints brought to us by an eligible complainant. There are two parts to 
the eligibility rules and the complainant must meet both parts for them to be eligible. DISP 
2.7.3R sets out the first part of the rules.  An eligible complainant must be a person that is:
(1) A consumerDISP 2.7.6R sets out the second test which is that to be an eligible complainant a person 
must also have a complaint which arises from matters relevant to one or more of the 
following relationships with the respondent: the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment 
service user or electronic money holder of the respondent, in this case BMW. The finance 
agreement at the heart of this complaint is between BMW and Mrs S, not Mr J. So, while its 
possible Mr J may meet the first test, he does not pass the second and so is not an eligible 
complainant within this complaint. As such I dont have the power to award him 
compensation. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited must:
Pay Mrs S £250 in compensation.
Refund one monthly payment.
Refund the cost of the independent inspection, £90. Mrs S should provide BMW with 
a copy of the invoice/proof of payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited 
must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman