DRN-3633950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that National Savings and Investment (NS&I) didnt transfer £40,000 
from their savings account to an account elsewhere because they couldnt verify those 
account details. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 3 February 2022 Mr and Mrs S attempted to transfer £40,000 from their NS&I account to 
an account held with a building society, which Ill call A. Mr and Mrs S thought this payment 
would be successful because they had already successfully made a payment of £50 to this 
account previously. They were also under the impression that anything under the threshold 
of £50,000 would have been successful.
However, on 4 February 2022 Mrs S received a phone call from NS&I saying her account 
had been flagged for security reasons. It transpired that the payment had been cancelled 
and the funds were still in her NS&I account. Mr and Mrs S attempted another transaction of 
£10,000 to A but again, this was unsuccessful. 
NS&I say the account details for A couldnt be verified and have told our service it can take 
time for this to happen. Taking into account the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for 
NS&I to be concerned about this transaction given the recent change and the amount of 
money involved. 
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy because those account details were already verified from the £50 
transaction which had been successful. But NS&I explained this transaction hadnt been 
subject to the same security checks as the higher transaction. NS&I were waiting for further 
information about the account to satisfy its own security policy. Although Mr and Mrs S may 
disagree with NS&Is policy and processes, its for NS&I to decide what security measures it 
has in place.
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs S comments that the large transaction should have been 
successful just because the transaction of £50 had been successful. I say this because a 
large withdrawal represents significantly more risk that it isnt being made by the account 
holder, so it stands to reason security will be more robust. So I dont think NS&I did anything 
wrong here in terms of carrying out these checks. 
NS&I say on 4 February 2022 they offered to transfer the funds to an existing account which 
was verified, which Ill call B, but Mrs S declined. Although this option wasnt what Mrs S 
wanted, NS&I did try to help mitigate the situation as Mrs S could then make a transfer from 
B to A. I think this was reasonable for NS&I to suggest as it allowed Mrs S to still have 
access to her money, albeit using a different account to the one she had originally intended 
to receive the payments. 
And in fact, when Mrs S spoke to NS&I on 11 February to remove the block that had 
remained on her account, she transferred out the remaining balance to (B) and she closed 
the account held with NS&I. By transferring the funds to B, Mr and Mrs S could then move 
their money to the intended destination. 
Mrs S said she delayed using the funds as a deposit to another savers account so there has 
been a small financial loss. But I wont be awarding any financial loss to Mrs S because I 
think Mrs S couldve mitigated her circumstances earlier by transferring money to B prior to 
11 February.
Unfortunately, things dont always go smoothly, and whilst I appreciate the situation for Mr 
and Mrs S was frustrating, Im not persuaded in the specific circumstances of this complaint 
that NS&I have treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. It follows that this isnt a complaint I should 
uphold. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman