DRN-2008941
The complaint
Mr B says AXA France IARD mis-sold him a monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in 1998.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for looking at the complaint.
What happened
Mr B applied for a Debenhams store card by completing an application form while he was in 
the store in 1998. He says PPI was added to his account without his knowledge. If he had 
known about it, he says he would have used it when he needed it most when he was ill. So 
he concludes it was mis-sold. 
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Mr B owed on his store card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mr B couldnt 
work because he had an accident, was unwell or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
As AXA France has looked at this complaint for Mr B, I will refer to AXA France as the PPI 
seller for ease.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I know this will be 
a disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA France made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA 
France produced a copy of Mr Bs store card application. I can see there was a box stating 
Yes, I would like to protect my account with Account Cover This box is signed on Mr Bs 
application, but I noted he declined other offers on the form. So I think the form was 
diligently completed and so he was probably aware of the things he wanted to select on the 
form. He says the form was completed by the person in store. But as he signed the form a 
second time at the end, I can reasonably assume he checked the details were correct. So I 
think his signature means AXA France probably made it clear enough that Mr B didnt have 
to take out the PPI and yet he chose to take it out. And I think his signature showed he 
probably chose to have PPI with his knowledge and consent  although I can understand 
why he may not be able to remember this.
I also think the premiums for the policy would have appeared on his statements  so if he 
hadnt agreed to the policy, or it had been added without either his knowledge or his 
consent, I think its reasonable to say he would have queried the premiums shortly after the 
policy was added. So taking all this into consideration, I think Mr B knew the policy was 
optional and chose to purchase it because he saw some value in it.
Mr B said he felt pressured to buy the PPI  but he didnt tell me exactly what was said to 
him that day. There isnt enough evidence on the documents to show me AXA France 
pressured him to buy the policy. So I cant uphold his complaint on that point.
I dont think AXA France advised Mr B to take out the PPI. This means AXA France didnt 
have to make sure the policy was suitable for him, but it still had to provide him with clear 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to take it out. 
I dont know exactly what information Mr B received about the policy at the time of sale. But 
even if I accept that he wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont think 
this would have affected his decision to take out the PPI for the reasons explained below.
Mr B was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for him to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition. He told us he was employed. Mr B says he wouldve received 
some sick pay if he was away from work due to illness. But the policy could have paid out in 
addition to Mr Bs employment benefits so could have proved useful to Mr B if he had an 
accident, became ill or lost his job. 
I dont know if AXA France made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mr B to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for him. But taking everything into account, I think if Mr B 
had properly understood the cost and benefit provided he would have thought the policy 
potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding balance 
was cleared and the monthly cost does not seem to be unaffordable.
Mr B did say he could have relied on his family to pay his monthly store card repayments. I 
do understand the point he is making, but there was no guarantee this would happen at 
some unknown point in the future. So I still think he would have seen a valuable benefit in 
having PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional and Mr B consented 
to add it to his store card account. I also think  based on his finances at the time - he 
probably would have bought the policy even if hed been given more detailed information. So 
I am not going to uphold this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments, but these do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman