DRN-2866421
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Ulster Bank Ltd (Ulster Bank) mis-sold her two packaged bank 
accounts. Mrs S says she upgraded as it would allow her to get an overdraft facility for the 
first upgrade and for the second upgrade it would allow her to increase her overdraft.
What happened
Mrs Ss account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free current account in December 1989
Upgraded to a fee-paying U First account in June 2003
Upgraded to a fee-paying U First Gold account in July 2007
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think the accounts had been 
mis-sold. Mrs S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mrs Ss complaint. Where 
evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind everything Ive seen 
and been told. 
After giving Mrs Ss complaint a lot of thought, I dont think either account was mis-sold. Let 
me explain why.
Firstly, I have thought about whether Mrs S was given a fair choice in taking out the 
accounts. Mrs S held a fee-free account for many years prior to having a paid for account. 
And I can see that she had an overdraft on her account for years prior to the first upgrade 
and the limit did not change around the time of the upgrade, so I think that she would have 
been aware that fee-free accounts were generally available and that she could have an 
overdraft on a fee-free account.
In relation to the second upgrade, it is my understanding that Mrs S had increased her 
overdraft a few weeks prior to her taking out the U First Gold. So, I think that she wouldve 
been aware that she did not have to change her account to the U First Gold account in order 
to increase her overdraft.
The U First Accounts main benefit at the time Mrs S took it out was an interest and fee-free 
overdraft facility buffer of £250. And I can see that Mrs S did have an overdraft at the time of 
the upgrade of £500; this means that if Mrs S stayed within the first £250 of her overdraft 
facility she would not be charged interest or fees. I note that Mrs S disputes this, but I must 
go on the information that is available and given this I am satisfied that it is more likely than 
not that her overdraft facility was in place prior to the upgrade.
So, taking everything into account, I think its likely she upgraded to the U First account 
knowing that she did not have to because she wanted this overdraft benefit.
In relation to the U First Gold upgrade. I can see that the account came with a £1,000 
interest free overdraft and travel insurance. I can also see that Mrs S has used the travel 
insurance that this account came with. So overall, I think that she agreed to the U First Gold 
because she was interested in the benefits it came with, having been given a fair choice.
Looking at what Ulster Bank and Mrs S have said, I dont think either account was 
recommended to Mrs S. This means that Ulster Bank didnt have to check Mrs Ss 
circumstances or check that the accounts were right for her. But it did have to give Mrs S the 
important information about the accounts and the associated benefits.
Based on the information that I have been provided I think that Mrs S was given some 
information about the accounts. But I accept that Mrs S may not have been told all of the 
details of all of the benefits that the accounts came with. But I cant see anything specific that 
she was not told that likely wouldve altered her decision to take out the accounts.
I want to reassure Mrs S that Ive looked at all the information I have about her complaint. 
And Ive thought carefully about everything shes said. But having done so, I dont think 
Ulster Bank mis-sold the U First account or U First Gold account. So I dont think it owes her 
any money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman