DRN-2096627
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in a branch in 
2004.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagrees with the adjudicators view and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in July 2020 in which I explained why I was thinking of not 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Neither party provided any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D say they were led to believe that the mortgage borrowing was more likely to 
be agreed if they said yes to having the PPI. Theyve also said that they thought the PPI was 
life insurance.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form that was completed during the meeting 
and that was signed by Mr and Mrs D on 5 March 2004. There is a separate section for PPI 
which offered three options  that you wanted PPI, that youd like to consider it and that you 
didnt want it. The first option has been ticked, indicating that Mr and Mrs D said that they 
wanted PPI.
Santander has also provided a copy of the Mortgage Interview Record. I can see that the 
adviser recommended life cover, which the couple agreed to. The adviser also 
recommended critical illness cover, which the couple said they didnt want.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs D have provided their honest recollection of events. But the 
sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ds memory 
has faded.  Overall, looking at the available evidence, I consider that Mr and Mrs D would 
have known from the wording and layout of the paperwork that they had a choice about 
buying PPI. The documentation suggests to me that a discussion took place about the 
different types of available cover. On balance, I consider that Mr and Mrs D would have 
understood that the PPI was a different product than the life cover that was also being 
recommended. And Mr and Mrs D felt confident in turning down some of the 
recommendations made by the advisor. It seems to me that Mr and Mrs D probably decided 
to buy the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Santander advised Mr and Mrs D to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to them it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mr D would have received between three and six months pay from his employer if he was off 
work sick. Mrs D hasnt mentioned if shed have received any sick pay. Regardless, the 
policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than they 
would have received full pay for. The couple had some savings. But having the PPI would 
have meant that they could retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would 
have been a difficult time. So I think Mr and Mrs D had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Mr D did have a pre-existing medical condition which may have been excluded under the 
policy. However his condition was something that hed had since childhood and that didnt 
affect him on a day to day basis. Mr D has told us that it was fully under control and that he 
was generally well in 2004. So I doubt Mr D would have thought that this condition would be 
the reason why he might have to end up making a claim on the policy. Therefore Im not 
persuaded that the exclusions and limitations in the policy would have restricted cover for Mr 
D to the extent that Mr and Mrs D would not have wanted to take it out.
Its possible that Santander didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But for the reasons already mentioned, 
I dont think that Mr and Mrs D would have really been affected by any of those things. As I 
think they had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further 
information would have caused them to change their minds. 
This means that Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
D. But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
When the policy was sold, Santander expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D 
about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Santander UK Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman