DRN-4155747
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC continues 
to pursue it for an outstanding Bounce Back Loan (BBL) debt.
Ls complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr T.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr T successfully applied to Barclays for a £15,000 BBL on Ls behalf, and 
L received the loan funds shortly thereafter. 
L was contractually required to begin making payments towards the loan in November 2021. 
But L didnt make repayments to the loan in line with its contractual requirements, and this 
ultimately led to Barclays defaulting the BBL for non-payment in October 2022 and passing 
the debt to a debt recovery agency (DRA). Mr T wasnt happy about this because L was no 
longer trading and so had no reasonable possibility of repaying the debt. So, he raised a 
complaint on Ls behalf.
Barclays responded to Ls complaint but didnt think that theyd done anything wrong by 
defaulting the BBL and acting to recover the balance outstanding. Mr T wasnt satisfied with 
Barclays response, so he referred Ls complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr T, in his referral of Ls complaint to this service, has mentioned several 
additional points of complaint  further to those described above  that he would like this 
service to consider. However, as per the rules by which this service must abide, which can 
be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook, this service can only consider points of complaint which have been 
raised with the respondent business by the complainant already, such that the respondent 
business has had an opportunity to consider and respond to these points of complaint.
In this instance, the response to Ls complaint issued by Barclays  which informed L of its 
right to refer its complaint to this service  only appears to address the defaulting of Ls BBL 
and Barclays continuing actions to recover the outstanding balance that they are owed. And 
the complaint response doesnt address any of the further points that Mr T has included in 
his referral of Ls complaint to this service.
As such, I dont feel that it is within the remit of this service to consider the further points of 
complaint that Mr T has raised on Ls behalf at this time. If Mr T would like to pursue those 
further points of complaint on Ls behalf, he should raise these points of complaint with 
Barclays directly, so that Barclays have the opportunity to respond to them. Accordingly, my 
review of this complaint will only consider the issues as outlined in the preceding section.
This means that my review of this complaint focusses on whether I feel Barclays did 
anything wrong or acted unfairly by defaulting Ls BBL for non-payment or regarding their 
ongoing attempts to recover the outstanding BBL balance that L owes to them.
Ultimately, I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably in either case here. 
This is because L didnt meet its contractual repayment requirements of the loan, such that 
Im satisfied that it was fair for Barclays to default the BBL as they did. And Im also satisfied 
that it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to make whatever attempts they felt were 
necessary to try to recover the outstanding balance of the BBL that L owed to it.
Im aware that Mr T felt that the government guarantee provided by the BBL scheme meant 
that Barclays shouldnt be attempting to recover the outstanding balance from L as they 
have. But Mr Ts position here is based on an incorrect understanding of the government 
guarantee, which as per the BBL scheme is provided to the lender  in this case Barclays  
rather than to the borrower, as Mr T appears to have believed.
Indeed, its a condition of the government guarantee provided to Barclays via the BBL 
scheme that Barclays are expected and required to attempt to recover the outstanding BBL 
balance owed by L, from L by all means possible. And its only after Barclays can 
demonstrate that they have attempted to recover the BBL balance by all means possible but 
have been unable to do so  either in full or in part  that they can seek to reclaim the 
portion of the BBL balance that remains outstanding via the government guarantee.
Im also aware that Mr T feels that Barclays should have recognised already that the BBL 
balance cant be recovered from L, because L is no longer trading and so has no reasonable 
expectation of being able to generate money with which to repay that balance. 
But I feel that its for Barclays to decide when its satisfied that it wont be reasonably 
possible to recover the balance from L. And I feel its both fair and reasonable for Barclays to 
take whatever action they consider appropriate to recover the outstanding BBL balance from 
L until such time that they feel recovery is no longer possible and that any claim they might 
make against the government guarantee is likely to be successful. 
This includes Barclays passing the debt to a DRA to act on their behalf, which I note is 
permitted by the terms of the BBL agreement which Mr A signed and consented to on Ls 
behalf when accepting the loan. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays has done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
here in the manner that Mr T contends. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr T was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman