DRN-3987714
The complaint
Mr G complains about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled his cancellation of his policy 
which left a default marker on his credit file.
What happened
Mr G had a motor insurance policy with UKI covering his car. He sold the car and contacted 
UKI by webchat to cancel his policy on 4 June 2022. 
UKI told him it would refund about £800, but he still needed to make his final payment.
The final payment for his policy for £398.41 was due on 6 June 2022 by Direct Debit (DD) 
but Mr G cancelled the DD before payment could be taken.
Mr G owed UKI this final payment and it contacted him by email and letter telling him he 
needed to pay. Mr G says he didnt receive this correspondence.
Because he still owed UKI £398.41, UKI placed a default marker on Mr Gs credit file. He 
then contacted UKI who told him it would be removed if he made the final payment.
Mr G made the payment but the marker wasnt removed. 
Mr G was unhappy and he complained. UKI agreed its service and advice about the default 
marker was poor and it offered Mr G £75 compensation for its error.
Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He asks that the default 
marker is removed from his record. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he thought UKIs 
advice about the marker being removed was poor, but UKI has realised its error and 
compensated Mr G for this. He thought that UKI had told Mr G about the need to keep his 
DD active and that it had tried to contact Mr G several times about the payment. 
Mr G didnt agree with the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why as I know this will come as a 
great disappointment to Mr G.
I can see from Mr Gs correspondence with this service after the view that he feels 
particularly aggrieved by UKIs actions, saying he thinks it lied to him and didnt take account 
of his needs.
Ive looked at the evidence of the initial conversation with Mr G about cancelling his policy, 
which was done by webchat. In the webchat UKI said:
The final balance is subject to any pending payments being up to date. Please leave 
the direct debit in place until any closing balance has been processed and confirmed. 
Are you happy for me to cancel the policy for you?
Ive only included a portion of this part of the webchat, but I think its meaning is clear.
Mr G also confirms that:
any money owed to me will be refunded and I will pay any remaining balance
In later correspondence Mr G says he didnt think UKI explained things clearly to him or take 
account of his personal situation. 
But it seems to me that Mr G was correctly told by UKI what to do, and that he agreed to do 
it. I think its fair to say that Mr G also had the opportunity to ask UKI for more help about 
what he needed to do.
UKIs evidence shows that it contacted Mr G three times during June and July about the 
money it says he owed. Mr G denies having received this correspondence as he says the 
email address wasnt in use, and he didnt get the letters. UKI has said it doesnt have any 
evidence that any of the communications were returned to it.
Mr G continues to deny that he received the correspondence about his cancelled payment, 
but in the absence of any further evidence I think its fair to say that UKI has followed good 
practice by using two different methods to communicate with Mr G and I cant say it has 
acted unfairly or that its UKIs fault that Mr G didnt receive its correspondence.
Mr G also says he feels he was being taken advantage of and was tricked into paying the 
amount he owed.
I can understand that the timing of this refund and payment might not seem logical to Mr G, 
but I think the explanation UKI gave him at the time was clear and as Ive said above I think 
he reasonably had the opportunity to ask UKI for more information if he felt he needed to.
If Mr G didnt pay the final payment, then its likely that the default marker would continue to 
say he was in default. Taking all this into account, I think its clear that Mr G owed the final 
payment because hed already received the refund for it. So I cant ask UKI to remove the 
default marker from his records because I think UKI fairly applied it, and gave Mr G the 
reasonable opportunity to settle his account before the marker was applied.
Ive also thought about UKIs error in telling Mr G that it would remove the default marker if 
he made the payment. UKI has already told Mr G that this was a mistake and it has 
apologised and offered him £75 compensation, which I can see Mr G has refused. Ive said 
above that I think UKI applied the default marker correctly so Ive considered the impact of 
its error on Mr G. Taking everything into account, I think UKIs offer of £75 compensation is 
fair and reasonable and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
My final decision
UK Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So my decision is that UK Insurance Limited should pay Mr G £75 if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman