DRN-4270860
The complaint
Ms C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt pay her the £200 account 
switching incentive payment it offered, causing her a loss of interest and inconvenience.
 
What happened
Ms C wanted to switch her account to RBS and its website told her she was eligible for the 
switch offer and she applied. She said it took several weeks and her time and energy for the 
attempted switch. After a week she called RBS and was advised to wait and use the online 
chat, but it took days for a response. Ms C said she was eventually told her old bank had 
rejected the switch and it was for her to follow up, but she didnt think this should up to her.
Ms C brought her complaint to RBS. She said she had to put £1,250 in the account within 60 
days as required and has lost potential interest on that money. She said she should be 
entitled to an extra £200 compensation on top of the £200 switch offer for all this trouble. 
RBS responded to say Ms C requested the switch on 30 March, but this was rejected by her 
old bank the next day because of the type of her account. RBS said not all types of account 
are acceptable and so it wouldnt pay her the £200. However, RBS its delayed response was 
completely unacceptable and apologised and paid her £100 compensation.
Ms C was dissatisfied with RBSs response and said she should be paid a further £300 for 
the incentive payment and compensation for her inconvenience and upset. She referred her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said a week passed 
without Ms C being told the outcome of her switch application and further days before she 
was told the reason for rejection, that her account is ineligible. He said RBSs service wasnt 
what it should have been, but the compensation paid to her for this was fair.    
Ms C disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
She said when she input her switch request into RBSs website the response was, Yes this 
account is available for switch. She said RBS has been misleading and lied. And she said 
she has lost potential interest on the deposited sum of £1,250. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn that Ms Cs attempt to switch her bank account was unsuccessful, and to 
see the inconvenience she suffered. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of RBSs switch 
offer and its handling of Ms Cs application to see if it has treated her fairly.
Ms C did not receive the £200 switch offer which was represented as payable to applicants 
in seven days, and she has had to do all of the running around and chasing to find out why. 
RBS said it had made no error and had followed the correct process. It said it had provided 
her with the correct information, albeit following a delay. 
Ive seen RBSs records about Ms Cs switch application, and it states, Old account not valid 
for account switch. From my review of the terms and conditions of the switch offer, Ms C 
wasnt eligible for the offer and so RBS does not need to pay her the £200 offer incentive. 
RBSs website gave Ms C to understand her switch had been successful and so I can 
understand her frustration at being rejected for the switch offer. I dont think the message to 
which Ms C has referred was presented as RBSs final answer to her switch application. 
However, the inconvenience and delay of trying to discover what was happening impacted 
on Ms C. Ms C also mentioned the loss of interest from her old account on the £1,250 she 
had to transfer to RBS to comply with the terms and conditions of the switch offer. 
Ive considered the loss of interest to Ms C which would have been a very small sum 
alongside the inconvenience she was put to. Im pleased RBS has apologised to her for the 
poor service it provided. Ive taken into account the time and communications Ms C directed 
at this problem. Overall the delay was for a relatively short period and so her inconvenience 
and potential loss of interest was limited to that time. 
In conclusion, I think the £100 compensation RBS has paid Ms C is about right for the 
impact its poor service had on her. This award is in line with others we have seen in similar 
circumstances to Ms Cs. I realise she will be disappointed with this outcome, but I hope she 
understands the reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman