DRN-3709460
The complaint
Mr K complains Santander UK Plc did not close his credit card account when he asked them
to.
What happened
Mr K attended a branch in October 2018 and told us hed asked for both his current account
and credit card account to be closed. He paid off the full balance outstanding on his credit
card in the branch that day to allow the closure to take place.
Mr K discovered in June 2021 that his credit card account remained open. Santander said
they had no record of Mr K asking for the credit card account to be closed in 2018 and
monthly statements continued to be issued, so they said Mr K shouldve been aware the
account was still open.
Our Investigator said, on balance, he believed Mr K had asked for the account to be closed
in October 2018 so he thought Santander had made an error by not making a note of this
request and not closing the account. He recommended Santander pay Mr K £150 in
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Santander agreed to the Investigators recommendations. But Mr K didnt think £150 was
enough. He said he wanted £15 to £20 for each month the credit card had remained open.
As Mr K didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision setting out what I thought about the complaint. Ive included 
my provisional findings below and they form part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties now accept Mr K did ask for his credit card account to be closed in October
2018 and Santander did not action this request. So what remains for me to consider is what
Santander should do to put things right.
If Santander had closed Mr Ks credit card account when he asked them to in October 2018,
it wouldnt have shown as an open account on his credit file after this date. So I find
Santander should amend Mr Ks credit file to reflect the fact the account shouldve been
closed in October 2018.
Mr K didnt think £150 was enough to compensate him for the impact the information
remaining on his credit file had on him. We asked him to provide some more information
about this, including a full copy of his credit file and details of any applications for credit hed
made that had been affected by this account remaining open. But we didnt receive a
response. So based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied that £150 is fair and
reasonable to reflect the impact Santanders failure to close Mr Ks account had.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
To put things right, I intend to say Santander should amend Mr Ks credit file to show the
credit card account shouldve been closed in October 2018 and pay Mr K £150.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr K responded to say he was prepared to accept £150 but only if Santander also took 
disciplinary action against the person who handled Mr Ks complaint and told Mr K what 
steps they have taken.
Santander did not respond by the deadline.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not the role of our service to punish financial businesses, or their employees, for 
mistakes made. I do understand Mr Ks frustration, but its not within my power to require 
Santander discipline a member of their staff. 
As neither party provided anything else for me to consider, Im not persuaded I need to 
depart from my provisional findings. 
My decision remains that Santander should amend Mr Ks credit file to show the credit card 
account shouldve been closed in October 2018 and pay him £150. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
To put things right, I require Santander UK Plc to amend Mr Ks credit file to show the
credit card account shouldve been closed in October 2018 and pay Mr K £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman