DRN-3298272
The complaint
Miss H complains that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) declined her mortgage application and 
wouldnt say why.
What happened
Miss H first enquired about taking out a mortgage with HSBC in mid-2020. HSBC indicated 
the amount of money it might be willing to lend to Miss H.
In February 2021, HSBC sent Miss H an illustration of a mortgage it could offer her, in 
principle. 
After this Miss H formally applied for a mortgage with HSBC. Her application was declined. 
Miss H wanted to know why, but HSBC wouldnt say.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He appreciated Miss Hs position, but he said that 
HSBC wasnt required to lend to Miss H. He said the mortgage illustration HSBC had sent 
her made it clear it wasnt obliged to give her the mortgage. Nor was it required to tell Miss H 
why it chose to decline her mortgage application. Our investigator said it isnt for us to 
interfere with HSBCs commercial decision making or for us to help her find out the reason 
why the application was declined. So he didnt recommend that Miss Hs complaint was 
upheld.
Miss H disagreed with our investigator and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. She has provided us with copies of text messages she received from HSBC 
that said her mortgage had been approved. However, the application was declined after this, 
before the relevant property was valued. She doesnt think that made sense and wants to 
understand what happened.
For completeness I should say here that when Miss H first complained to HSBC she also 
complained about the way she felt the HSBC mortgage adviser treated her. But Miss H didnt 
pursue that complaint with our investigator or ask an ombudsman to consider that aspect of 
her complaint. So I consider that issue settled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Miss H is keen to find out why HSBC declined her mortgage application. 
She doesnt think what she has been told makes sense given that the mortgage was 
declined before the property she wanted to buy was valued, and after she received text 
messages to say that her application had been approved.
I appreciate how frustrating it has been for Miss H not to be told the reasons behind HSBCs 
decision making. But HSBC wasnt required to say why it declined her mortgage application. 
So I cant say HSBC has made a mistake by not being clear about this. 
HSBC is allowed to use its commercial judgement to decide to who to lend to, how much, 
and on what terms.
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgement (as it is 
here) my role is to decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; 
it isnt to substitute my own judgement for that of HSBC. In other words, I have to decide if 
HSBC took into account all the relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them 
before reaching its decision about Miss Hs mortgage application. It is only if I thought no 
lender could reasonably have made the decision HSBC made in this case that there would 
be any basis for intervention on my part.
Miss H hasnt been told the reason why her mortgage application was declined, so I 
appreciate she has been left feeling that something is wrong without having the information 
to challenge the decision herself. However, HSBC has told us why it acted as it did. Having 
considered all the information HSBC has provided, I think it was entitled to take the 
commercial decision it did to decline Miss Hs mortgage application. 
It follows that while I appreciate that Miss H is unlikely to be happy with my decision, I dont 
think HSBC did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman