DRN-2570138
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain that Santander UK PLC (Santander) mis-sold them an MPPI 
policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 November 2020 that I will 
summarise below.
Mrs P and Mr P took out a mortgage in 1985. Some years later in 1992, they took out an 
MPPI policy that covered Mr P only against accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Mrs P and Mr P told our service that they werent given a choice to say no. They added 
that they werent eligible for the policy. They also were not happy with the amount of 
compensation Santander offered them regarding excessive commission.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint so as both parties didnt agree at this point, 
it was passed to me to look into. I also didnt uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint.
I agreed with the adjudicator and felt they were more likely given a choice to have the 
policy based on the paperwork that I had seen. I also felt the policy was suitable for Mr P as 
the policy holder. But as Mrs P and Mr P had introduced several comments after our 
adjudicators view about whether Mr P was eligible, I decided to draft a provisional decision 
to give them a chance to respond to my findings on this.
Mrs P and Mr P said that Mr P wasnt eligible to claim benefit on the policy as terms given 
within the application form stated that the policy needed to be linked to a new loan 
application. They said that they didnt take up the new loan in the end and so under the 
terms given on the application form, Mr P wasnt eligible. I felt however that Mr P was 
eligible for the MPPI policy. I drew this conclusion after reading the eligibility terms given in 
the policy document. I felt Mr P would be able to claim benefit if needed and couldnt see 
any reason why he would not be eligible for this. 
Santander didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs P and Mr P replied on 9 December 2020 and made further points. I will summarise 
them:
They say they discussed a new loan with Santander in 1992 alongside a new 
MPPI policy. They signed for the MPPI but did not go ahead with the new loan. 
They reiterate that the terms given on the application form show the MPPI policy 
was conditional on the loan also being taken out. They say it was a requirement 
under the terms given in the application form for a new loan. Mrs P and Mr P also 
add that the MPPI policy was not standalone.
Mrs P and Mr P also say they have not been paid anything by Santander relating 
to excessive commission so far.
They say they were mis-sold the policy as Mr P was not eligible for it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mrs P and Mr Ps comments and acknowledge what they have said. I 
understand the points they are making regarding the terms given on the MPPI application 
form. That said, none of these points change the findings in my provisional decision. 
I can only reiterate that the wording on the application form they have referenced does not 
relate to the eligibility criteria given in the policy document. The terms given in the policy 
document are relevant as to whether Mr P could make a claim for benefit if needed, and 
on reading these again, I think he would have been able to.
I also couldnt find any other reason to uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint and so I dont 
think on this occasion they were mis-sold the MPPI policy. 
I note Mrs P and Mr Ps comments regarding a compensation payment for excessive 
commission and can see, after reading through the case documents again, that Santander 
have not yet paid them this amount, as they have correctly suggested. This is because they 
turned down Santanders offer. I will now leave it to both parties to discuss this. But if Mrs P 
and Mr P have any further concerns about this, they can complain to Santander in the first 
instance. Then if they are not satisfied with its explanation, they can raise a complaint about 
this separately to our service. 
In conclusion, I know it will be a disappointment for Mrs P and Mr P, but It follows that I 
dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman