DRN-3918510
The complaint
Mrs G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
On 10 February 2021, Mrs G paid £25,000 to a cryptocurrency exchange company via 
online transfer from her HSBC current account. She later complained to HSBC that it failed 
to contact her when she made the payment and had it done so, it would have been obvious 
she was falling victim to a scam as shed have told it what the payment was for and the fact 
her husbands broker had access to his computer using Anydesk. 
When she complained to this service, Mrs G said HSBC failed to query why she made 
frequent high value payments into her husband's account between 13 November 2020 and 
30 November 2020 and took out a £15,000 loan in February 2021. She also had £47,400 
worth of shares from an account she held with another bank paid into her HSBC account.
Her representatives said HSBC should have contacted Mrs G to ask questions around the 
purpose of the payment, the nature of the checks she made, whether there was a third party 
involved and if theyd gained access to her husbands computer using remote software. They 
argued that, had they done so, it would have been obvious her husbands broker was 
operating a scam and it would have been in a position to give a scam warning and advice on 
due diligence, which could have prevented her loss.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because she didnt think the 
payment would have appeared unusual, so she didnt think HSBC needed to have 
intervened when Mrs G made the payment. She explained Mrs Gs account had a long-
established history of making payments of significantly large value dating back to April 2020, 
including large amounts transferred between accounts. She accepted the payment was to a 
new payee, but she noted Mrs G had made a payment of £40,000 on 22 May 2020, so it 
wasnt wholly unusual for her to make large payments to new beneficiaries. 
Our investigator added that, even if HSBC had intervened, Mrs G had explained that her 
husband had no concerns that the investment wasnt genuine and had been able to 
successfully withdraw funds from his trading account on four occasions. She noted there 
were no negative reports or warnings about the company his broker claimed to work for 
during the scam period, and there would have been no concerns that the company was 
unregulated. Further, he had an independent financial adviser and hadnt been cold called.  
So, she didnt think an intervention by HSBC would have made a difference to Mrs Gs 
decision to go ahead with the payment.
Mrs G has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Her representative 
has argued that asking Mrs G to transfer the money to a cryptocurrency exchange company 
and then onto a wallet matches a known method of fraud and Mrs G had never traded 
before. They said that at the time of the scam there was information in the public domain 
about which HSBC ought to have been aware and by the time she made the payment, 
cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in frequency.
They maintain Mrs G should have been asked more questions about why she wanted a loan 
in February 2021 and HSBCs failure to ask questions exacerbated her financial loss. 
Theyve also argued it should have asked her about the high value transactions to her 
husbands account and the payment which was returned in February 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mrs G has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Im satisfied that HSBC contacted the beneficiary bank as soon as the scam was reported to 
it and so there was nothing else it could have done to recover the money. Im also satisfied 
the CRM Code doesnt apply to the payments because they were paid to an account in her 
own name.
Im satisfied Mrs G authorised the payment for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mrs G is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mrs G didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payment. HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, HSBC had 
an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, 
so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mrs G when she tried to 
make the payment.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
HSB to intervene with a view to protecting Mrs G from financial harm due to fraud. The payment didnt flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems. Ive considered the nature of the 
payment in the context of whether it was unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mrs G normally 
ran her account and I dont think it was. This is because, it was to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange company and while I accept £25,000 is a large amount, taking into 
account the fact there were several large payments in and out of the account, in particular 
the payment of £40,000 on 22 May 2020, I dont think it was unusual. So, I dont think HSBC 
missed an opportunity to intervene when she made the payment.
Ive considered the fact Mrs G took out a loan before making the payment and I dont think it 
makes a difference because of the history of regular transfers in and out of the account. 
Similarly, I dont think the fact a payment was returned by the merchant shortly before Mrs G 
made the disputed payment was suspicious or unusual.
Finally, Ive also considered the arguments Mrs Gs representatives have made about the 
large transfers Mrs G made to her husband and I accept they might reasonably have given 
HSBC some cause for concern because she sent £233,644 to him November 2022. 
However, I dont think additional questioning around these transfers would have made any 
difference to Mrs Gs subsequent decision to go ahead with the disputed payment. This is 
because, Mrs Gs husband had a financial advisor, hed received withdrawals from his 
trading account, he had previous investment experience and he was satisfied the investment 
was genuine. So, I dont think there was anything HSBC could have said that would have 
changed her mind about sending money to his account. 
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Ms Gs payments when 
she reported the scam to it. The payment was made to a cryptocurrency exchange 
company. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mrs Gs payment, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that HSBCs decision not to raise a 
chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mrs G has 
lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Nationwide is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman