DRN-2746466
The complaint
Mr S complains that in breach of the applicable regulations Santander UK Plc has acted 
unreasonably by not having clear, effective and appropriate policies in place to ensure it 
treats vulnerable customers fairly.
What happened
Mr S owns a leasehold property which is mortgaged to Santander. On 27 March 2018 Mr Ss 
landlord wrote to Santander saying he was in breach of the service charge provisions of the 
lease because there were outstanding demands for payment for major works amounting to 
£4208.34. The landlord invited Santander to pay these to avoid further action.
On 10 April 2018 Santander wrote to Mr S:
Your landlord or their agents have sent us a demand for service charges and/or other 
unpaid charges/rent totalling £4208.34 for the address below: . If you agree to the 
charges, you must pay the landlord immediately. If you don't agree with the amount of the 
charges and you want to challenge the landlord's demand, please call us as soon as 
possible so we can discuss this.
On 14 June 2018 Mr Ss landlord wrote to Santander again saying he was in breach of the 
lease because there were outstanding demands for service charges amounting to £2489.09. 
The landlord again invited Santander to make payment to avoid further action.
Santander wrote to Mr S again on 20 June 2018 in the same terms as the letter of 10 April 
save as to the reduced amount. 
On 27 June 2018 Mr S wrote to Santander saying he disputed the landlords demand for 
£2489.09. He said the demand related to service charges and the landlord knew that he 
denied liability. He also had a counterclaim which was likely to exceed the landlords claim.
On 14 November 2018 Mr S wrote to Santander to say that the matter was now the subject 
of litigation between him and the landlord. He enclosed an order of the court giving 
directions for an allocation hearing and for disposal of an application by Mr S to strike out 
the landlords reply and defence to counterclaim. I can see that the proceedings were 
issued by the landlord, and the correspondence suggests it sought judgment for the 
service charges but not forfeiture of the lease.
On 27 November 2019 Mr S wrote again to Santander with an update on the court 
proceedings. He enclosed a letter from his GP saying he had been diagnosed in 2011 with 
post-traumatic stress disorder and depression. 
Santander sent an undated letter to Mr S:
We understand that there is a dispute over outstanding service charges and/or ground rent 
between you and your landlord for £2489.09.At this stage we wont get involved in the 
dispute but if there is a risk that we may lose security of the property which your mortgage is 
secured against we'll write to you again to inform you of our action. We'll do this by paying 
the disputed amount and debiting your mortgage account. .This will increase your 
mortgage balance and your monthly payment. 
Mr S replied on 14 December 2019:
Your reply  explains that in the event of receiving a s.146 notice from [the landlord], you 
would pay them, add the sum to my mortgage and charge me £70. I understand that this 
might be your usual way of proceeding.  However, in view of my mental health disability and 
your resulting obligation to avoid disability discrimination within the Equality Act 2010, 
including by making an appropriate adjustment, I would be grateful if you would now explain 
how you would propose to comply with your obligations under the Act.
You are fully aware of my health condition.  It would not be reasonable or proportionate to 
add any sums to my mortgage if a higher mortgage payment might lead to mental, financial 
or housing instability, for example arrears and repossession. A mental health disability is not 
a business opportunity. Im sorry to say that your letter indicating a possible intention to act 
in this way has caused distress, anxiety and damage to my health.
You do, of course, understand that a s.146 notice is not, in itself, a threat to your security.  
That would come later should the [landlord] take separate legal action against me to forfeit 
my lease. I am sure you can understand that the [landlord] is unlikely to take such a step.  
As a public authority, it has a public sector duty to eliminate discrimination and promote 
equality.  In view of my health, no court would make such an order when a proportionate way 
of achieving the same aim would be for [landlord] to obtain a charging order on condition of 
no order for sale.
On 12 May 2020 Mr S wrote to Santander reporting that the litigation had been settled by 
consent. He sent a copy of a consent order providing for a £1,000 reduction in the service 
charges with the balance payable interest-free over five years. He said:
If for any reason [landlord] contacts you again about this matter, Id be very grateful if you 
would let me know. And if they try any funny business like demanding any kind of payment 
from you, I'd be grateful if you would decline to pay them and refer them back to me. As you 
can see from the enclosed order, your security is not under threat and there are no grounds 
for a s.146 Notice.
On 21 May 2020 Santander wrote to Mr S enclosing a letter it had received from the 
landlord. At the bottom of Santanders letter appeared the words:
With this letter you'll find:
Forfeiture of Lease
Hackney Council letter
Mr S telephoned Santander on 10 June 2020 and made a complaint. In its reply dated 
12 June 2020 Santander said it understood Mr S was unhappy as the letter contained the 
term Forfeiture of Lease which distressed him and he felt Santander should have amended 
this.
Santander acknowledged that this had caused distress but didnt agree it should have been 
changed. Santander said that despite being aware of Mr Ss mental health position, it didnt 
know this specific terminology would cause him distress. It was required to be transparent, 
and on most of its letters it confirmed that failure to pay a mortgage could result in the 
property being repossessed. This information would be provided to all customers regardless 
of their mental health status. Confirming that correspondence related to a potential forfeiture 
of a lease would fall under the same situation.On 7 July 2020 Santander wrote:
You have asked us to provide details of Santanders policies and procedures in relation to 
vulnerable customers. The support we offer to customers in such circumstances is tailored 
for each individual and there is no set procedure which I can share regarding these matters. 
Each case we are aware of where a customer may require additional support would be 
reviewed by a trained colleague and we would then make bespoke arrangements on an 
individual basis where it is possible to do so. The support we offer would not enable us to 
avoid accurately stating that the correspondence we are providing is in relation to "Forfeiture 
of Lease", as we did on this occasion.
Mr S wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service. He said it had emerged 
that Santander didnt have a policy relating to customers with mental health disabilities. He 
pointed out that CONC 7.2 in the FCA Handbook said: A firm must establish and implement 
clear, effective and appropriate policies and procedures for: (2) the fair and appropriate 
treatment of customers who the firm understands or reasonably suspects to be particularly 
vulnerable.Customers who have mental health difficulties or mental capacity limitations 
may fall into the category of particularly vulnerable customers.
Mr S said support "tailored for each individual", didnt comply with the regulations. 
Implementation of the "tailored" support was at the judgment or the whim of each employee. 
Even if staff acted in good faith, they may not always get it right. Policies and procedures 
which allowed for such an outcome werent clear, effective or appropriate.
Mr S said that to resolve his complaint he would like Santander to comply with CONC 7.2.2 
by establishing and implementing clear, effective and appropriate policies and procedures 
for the fair and appropriate treatment of customers who were particularly vulnerable, 
including those like him with mental health difficulties and impairments. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He said it wasnt our role to police financial businesses, and he couldnt ask Santander to 
change any of its processes. That was the role of the FCA, who was the financial services 
regulator.
Santander had provided its internal guidance for vulnerable customers. The guidance 
included clear explanations about what could make a customer vulnerable and how to 
identify this, as well as what steps should be taken to assist customers who were vulnerable 
for a variety of different reasons  including those with mental health conditions.
The investigator said it wasnt unusual for a bank to tailor the support offered to each 
individual based on their needs, as a blanket approach wouldnt work for everyone. In Mr Ss 
case, Santander had demonstrated his mental health had been documented on his account 
and this would be visible to anyone Mr S spoke with from Santander. The investigator 
thought this was reasonable and didnt think Santander had failed to meet its obligations or 
treated Mr S unfairly.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. He said it seemed 
Santander had left it up to staff taking his calls to make their own judgment off the cuff about 
what was a reasonable adjustment and what wasn't. In principle, trusting staff to use their 
discretion was good employment practice. But unless staff were trained in mental health 
disability and guided about how to respond, expecting them to make that sort of tricky 
judgment off the cuff seemed highly unfair on them. If staff didnt have tailored professional 
guidance about his needs and about what a reasonable adjustment was in his case, how 
could they know the right thing to do?What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be helpful if I point out, as Mr S himself has done, that he isnt complaining to us 
about Santanders use of the term forfeiture of lease. 
If he were, I would say its evident from his letters that he knew what that meant and that the 
landlords litigation had been disposed of by a consent order which he had probably been 
involved in drafting. Indeed it was he who was explaining these matters to Santander. In the 
context of Mr Ss correspondence with Santander, I dont consider it was unfair or 
unreasonable to use that term, and indeed Mr S had already used it himself. 
In reply to the investigators view Mr S said:
For clarity, I didn't complain that Santander discriminated against me by "appearing
to take steps to evict me from my home". Any eviction would have been undertaken by
the third party in question, not by Santander. We agreed what the complaint was: "I
understand your complaint is that Santander has acted unreasonably by not having
clear, effective and appropriate policies in place to ensure it treats vulnerable customers
fairly."
Mr Ss complaint to us is about Santanders policies for the treatment of particularly 
vulnerable customers. He says Santander has failed to comply with CONC 7.2 in the FCA 
Handbook.
But Santander does have its own guidance for supporting customers in vulnerable situations 
which seems to me adequately comprehensive. I dont consider it requires staff to make 
tricky judgments off the cuff. It sets out who should read the guidance, how to use it, how to 
carry out a task, how to select the topic that is most likely to contain the information, 
examples and cross-references, guidance as to how a customer might be vulnerable, and 
the obligations which would follow. 
It sets out the obligation to take extra care and consider the needs of the individual customer 
and ensure the customer is able to decide whether the information and/or advice given to 
them is appropriate to meet their needs and objectives. It deals with the matters which might 
indicate that a customer might need additional support, and the most appropriate action to 
take when potential vulnerability is identified and when more support might be needed. It 
deals with alternatives to be offered to a customer who requires additional support, and how 
to seek further guidance if uncertainty exists about the appropriate approach to take. In my 
view its very comprehensive.
In fairness to Mr S I should add that Santander did undersell its compliance with CONC 7.2 
when it said in its reply dated 7 July 2020: there is no set procedure which I can share 
regarding these matters. Santander may not have meant that there was no procedure, it 
meant that the procedure was confidential and couldnt be shared with Mr S. But that could 
have been more clearly explained.
In any event Im not a regulator. My awards are designed to address loss, damage and 
material distress and inconvenience suffered by a consumer as a result of errors, poor 
service or breaches of contract or duty by a financial business. Its not my role to judge 
whether, as the investigator put it, Santanders policies or processes are fit for purpose. I cant order a business to improve future levels of service. That's the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who are the regulator.
I think Mr Ss concerns about Santanders policies are unnecessary, but that they do result 
from a less than adequate explanation by Santander. Be that as it may, I dont consider it 
appropriate to uphold a complaint that Santanders policies are inadequate.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman