DRN-1445203
 
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited have declined to cover the costs of 
repairs to her boiler.
What happened
Mrs P has an insurance policy with British Gas to cover servicing and repairs to her boiler. 
During an annual service in April 2019 the British Gas engineer identified a problem with a 
leaking flue and said it needed immediate repair. The engineer told Mrs P the work would be 
covered under her policy, so she authorised the work to go ahead.
However, British Gas then said the work on Mrs Ps boiler wasnt a repair and was actually 
an upgrade to bring it in line current regulations. So British Gas wouldnt cover the costs of 
the repair/upgrade - £327.73. Mrs P had to pay these costs herself.
Mrs P has complained that British Gas wont cover the costs of repairs to her boiler. 
Our investigator found that British Gas had acted unreasonably. He said that British Gas had 
identified the issue with the flue in 2016 although they didnt tell Mrs P this until she had the 
boiler serviced in April 2019. The boiler was repaired in 2019, and parts installed which 
brought the boiler up to current standards, which is why British Gas classed the work as an 
upgrade. The investigator said British Gas needed to provide a lasting repair, and to do this 
the upgrade parts needed to be installed. So he thought British Gas were responsible for the 
costs of the repair/upgrade and not Mrs P.
British Gas didnt respond to the investigators view. So this case has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the report the engineer gave Mrs P after the service in April 2019. This says the 
boiler flue and ventilation werent safe, so operating the boiler also wasnt safe. Mrs P was 
given a Safety Warning Notice which said part of your gas installation is unsafe. Continuing 
to use an appliance/installation that is At Risk or Immediately Dangerous could put your 
property and life in danger. The engineer also wrote on the Safety Warning Notice  flue 
not screwed and supported. After the work was classed by British Gas as an upgrade, Mrs 
P was quoted £327.93 for the this. This work was carried out a few weeks later.
I think it would be helpful to clarify the Financial Ombudsman Services approach to cases 
like this. When carrying out work under an insurance policy, we think its reasonable that the 
insurer carries out an effective and lasting repair  it must fully put right any damage to a 
sufficient quality that it lasts for a reasonable period of time. If any uninsured work is needed to carry out an effective and lasting repair, and it isnt 
possible for the insured work to be done without the uninsured work also being done, then 
wed expect the uninsured work to be carried out as part of the repair. If this means the 
customer is put in a better position as a result of this, thats sometimes the only fair solution.
In this instance, repairs to the boiler were the insured work, and upgrades to the boiler were 
the uninsured work. British Gas said Mrs Ps boiler was unsafe  I think unsafe implies 
repair and not an upgrade. They also said the flue was not screwed and supported. This 
implies a potential issue with the fitting of the boiler, not an upgrade. So I agree that Mrs Ps 
boiler needed repair, so it was no longer unsafe.
Ive not seen anything to convince me the repairs to the flue couldve been done without the 
upgrade work also being done. And British Gas didnt offer a repair without an upgrade 
option to Mrs P  it was an all or nothing scenario. 
Because of this, I agree with the investigator that, in order to complete an effective and 
lasting repair, uninsured work needed to be carried out. So, given the circumstances, its fair 
and reasonable that British Gas cover all of the costs of this work.
And I dont think the fact that Mrs P didnt take advantage of the boiler service in 2017 or 
2018 has any bearing on this matter  the repairs to the flue required upgrade works to be 
done, and this wouldve been the case regardless of when the work was carried out. So this 
doesnt alter my decision that its only fair an reasonable British gas cover the costs of the 
repair/upgrade works.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited 
must reimburse Mrs P with the £327.93 she paid them for the cost of the repair to her boiler, 
plus simple interest at 8% a year from the date she made the payment to the date of the 
refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman