DRN-4402533
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) are holding 
him liable for a debt which he says was taken out as the result of a scam.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
Mr F had previously been scammed into making a cryptocurrency investment which then 
disappeared.
In 2023, Mr F was contacted by a scammer who claimed theyd found his cryptocurrency, it 
had greatly increased in value, and they could help him get it back. They persuaded Mr F to 
install a remote access application, log into his online banking, and pay them about £2,000 
as a fee. In addition to the £2,000 payment, a £5,000 loan was taken out with Madison in 
Mr Fs name, paid to his bank account, and then sent on to the scammer. Mr F says he saw 
the scammer go to Madisons website, but they told him it was just a sister company.
Madison held Mr F liable for the loan. Our investigator looked into things independently and 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Mr F and Madison a provisional decision on 11 October 2023, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be partially upheld. In that decision, I said:
I understand that Mr F was scammed here. Hes provided his chat history with the scammer, 
and I can see his bank investigated and concluded hed been scammed. I appreciate this 
cant have been an easy time for Mr F. Its worth keeping in mind that its the scammer whos 
primarily responsible for what happened. But I can only consider what Mr F and Madison did 
in this dispute between them, and I must be fair to both sides. 
I cant see that Madison had any good reason to think it wasnt Mr F applying for this loan. It 
was taken out on his device, using his genuine details, and it passed its identity checks, 
ultimately because Mr F had given the scammer everything they needed.
Its not conclusive whether Mr F applied for this loan himself or not. I accept that he was 
scammed, and that the scammer had control of his device. But the loan was taken out using 
his contact details, rather than the scammers, so Mr F would have received any relevant 
communication. His chat with the scammer indicates he knew this was a loan which would 
need to be paid back. And given that he saw the scammer go to Madisons website, and 
wouldve seen them fill out the loan application, he ought reasonably to have been aware 
that this loan was being taken out in his name and would need to be repaid.
Further, I need to consider whether Mr F did enough to verify what was really going on and 
to reasonably mitigate his losses. Im afraid I think Mr F ought to have had more concerns 
along the way about what he was being asked to do. So that also means he should bear 
some responsibility for what happened. For example, Mr F was cold-called by someone 
offering an implausible story and returns that were too good to be true, and he didnt have 
any reasonable evidence that they were who they claimed to be, nor did he carry out any 
reasonable checks or seek independent advice. Essentially, he gave a stranger full access 
to his device, personal details, and bank account without having a reasonable basis to 
believe what they were telling him.
Then perhaps most importantly, I can see that Mr Fs bank have refunded the £5,000 that 
was paid from the Madison loan onto the scammer. So Mr F still has the loan funds. And 
thats not Mr Fs money, thats Madisons money. He needs to pay that back to them.
So even if I were to conclude that this loan was taken out without Mr Fs full knowledge and 
consent, I still could not fairly or reasonably tell Madison to write off this loans principal. It 
would not be fair to hold Madison responsible for the scammers actions or for Mr Fs 
negligence, or for Mr F to get the benefit of £5,000 that was not his in the first place.
Of course, I do accept that Mr F was scammed. Im conscious of the possibility that this loan 
was applied for without his explicit and informed consent  which would mean Madison 
wouldnt be able to hold him to the terms of it, including the interest and fees. And in any 
case, it doesnt seem fair for Mr F to have to pay interest and fees on a loan he was tricked 
into getting on false pretences, nor would it seem very appropriate for Madison to seek to 
profit from fraud.
Further, Im not confident that it was entirely responsible to lend this loan. I note Mr Fs 
existing indebtedness, his very high balance-to-limit ratio and tendency to go over his credit 
limits, his recent missed payments, and his use of high-cost short-term lending. I also note 
he was living out of his overdraft and appears to have been in some financial difficulties.
So with all of that in mind, I currently think that the fairest thing is for Madison to waive the 
interest and fees on this particular loan, and for Mr F to repay the £5,000 principal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Madison let us know they had nothing further to add.
Mr F agreed to repay the £5,000 but requested that Madison remove the loan from his credit 
file first.
I understand why Mr F thought to ask for this. Had Mr F returned the £5,000 as soon as his 
bank refunded it back in March, I might have suggested that Madison remove the loan from 
his file.However, as I explored in the provisional decision, I found that Mr F reasonably knew that 
this was a loan which was being taken out in his name and which he would need to pay 
back. He then held onto the £5,000 loan funds after his bank returned it to his account, 
despite reasonably knowing that this money was not his and that it needed to be paid back 
to Madison. Since March, he has continued to benefit from the use of those loan funds.
Mr Fs credit file is supposed to be an accurate reflection of his borrowing. Given that he 
reasonably understood that he had borrowed this money, and given that he chose not to 
repay the borrowing for many months, it would not be appropriate to remove the debt from 
his credit file in this case. It is more accurate for Mr Fs credit file to reflect that he chose to 
hold onto the money he borrowed and chose to remain in debt to Madison for a significant 
period of time.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before, for the 
reasons set out above.
Putting things right
I direct Madison CF UK Limited to rework the loan account to remove any interest and fees. 
I do not make any further award.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and direct Madison CF UK Limited to put things right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman