DRN-2848345
The complaint 
Ms F has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a packaged 
bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Bank of Scotland 
charged her a monthly fee for the account and provided several potential benefits in return. 
Ms F thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
What happened
Ms F has been a customer of Bank of Scotland for quite a while. Bank of Scotland has told 
us its records show that she opened a fee-free account in 2006, that it sold her the URCA in 
January 2013 and that she went back to a fee-free account in October 2020. I think that 
Bank of Scotlands records about this are probably reliable and I have taken them to be 
accurate. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Fs complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to her. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Bank of 
Scotland should give Ms F any money back.
Ms F didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Ms F and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2013, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts (including URCAs) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Bank of Scotland used for Ms F, I would have expected it to give her a 
choice and tell her about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale, I 
would also have expected it to check that the URCA was a reasonable match for her 
circumstances before making its recommendation. 
Ms F has told us that Bank of Scotland advised her to buy the URCA during a meeting at 
one of its branches. Bank of Scotland has agreed it sold her the URCA during a meeting but 
has said that it did so on an information-only basis. Ms F has given us quite a bit of 
background to this, shes told us that Bank of Scotland invited her to the meeting to discuss 
her account (indeed, shes told us that it harassed and harangued her to attend such a 
meeting) and Im satisfied that she certainly thought that Bank of Scotland was 
recommending the URCA to her. So, I have considered her complaint to be about an 
advised sale. 
One of Ms Fs main points is that she doesnt think Bank of Scotland gave her a fair choice 
between the URCA and a fee-free account. I understand that she had previously overdrawn 
her fee-free account from time-to-time and wanted to keep the option to do so; and as well 
as saying that Bank of Scotland harassed and harangued her to attend the meeting, shes 
told us that it said it was closing her existing fee-free account and the URCA was the only 
option which would allow her to have an overdraft. 
Firstly, I would like to clarify that Bank of Scotland was not closing its fee-free accounts in 
2013. Along with other UK banks, it has continued to provide such accounts quite widely. But 
the crux of Ms Fs complaint is whether Bank of Scotland misled her about this in 2013. I find 
this unlikely. It would have meant that Bank of Scotland would have been contradicting its 
own position in the market place and would have been describing a policy which was very 
different to normal banking practices at the time. I accept that Bank of Scotland may well 
have brought up the subject of the URCA during the meeting, but I doubt it denied Ms F the 
option to keep her fee-free account. 
I also think its highly likely that Ms F could have continued to overdraw her fee-fee account, 
as the type of account a customer holds rarely affects a banks willingness to lend money to 
that customer. So, if Bank of Scotland was willing to allow Ms F to continue to have an 
overdraft with an URCA, Im very confident that it would also have continued to allow her to 
have an overdraft with a fee-free account.
In 2013, Bank of Scotland usually applied lower charges for overdrafts to customers with 
URCAs than to customers with fee-free accounts and its quite likely it told Ms F that this was 
one of the benefits of the URCA which would only be available if she bought one. But as this 
would have been true, it wouldnt have been misleading. 
I also accept that Bank of Scotland may have asked Ms F to attend the meeting, possibly 
more than once. But I dont think this means it was harassing or haranguing her.
In 2013, the potential benefits of the URCA included use of a car breakdown service and 
insurance for mobile phones and travel. 
I understand that while Ms F held the URCA, she used a car and a mobile phone and 
travelled to Europe from time-to-time. Ms F has told us that Bank of Scotland registered one 
of her phones for insurance during the meeting, so it seems that Bank of Scotland discussed 
these benefits with her. During our investigation into Ms Fs complaint, Bank of Scotland said 
she had called out the car breakdown service. Ms F has now shown that this was incorrect, 
and she hadnt used it. However, this doesnt mean Bank of Scotland had done anything 
wrong in the way it sold her the URCA. It seems to me that Ms F had a potential need for at 
least some of the benefits that the URCA could provide and I think it was reasonable for 
Bank of Scotland to recommend it to her. 
Ms F has also told us that from time-to-time she bought separate travel insurance and that 
this shows Bank of Scotland had mis-sold her the URCA. I see the point she is making, but I 
dont agree with it. Potentially, travel insurance was one of the URCAs significant benefits, 
and Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland would have told her about it during the meeting. After 
all, it was trying to sell the URCA to her and it was in its own interest to tell her what it could 
offer. And even if the particular policy the URCA provided didnt meet all of Ms Fs needs, as 
I have already found that found she had a potential need for some of the URCAs other 
benefits (such as lower cost overdrafts, insurance for mobile phones and the car breakdown 
service) it doesnt follow the URCA was mis-sold. 
Ms F has accepted that Bank of Scotland told her about the monthly fee and although she 
has mentioned that the price increased several times after 2013, there isnt any dispute that 
it told her about the URCAs cost. So, in summary, I dont think that Bank of Scotland denied Ms F a choice to keep her fee-
free account, that it harassed and harangued her into buying the URCA, or that it misled her 
about overdrafts. And Im satisfied that it gave her reasonable advice and told her about the 
URCAs cost and benefits. I dont think that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Ms F. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Fs complaint that Bank of 
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-sold the URCA to her. I am not going to tell it to give her 
any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman