DRN-2498913
The complaint
Ms L is complaining that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions she didnt authorise.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision: 
On 18 July 2019, Ms L received a call from someone claiming to be from Talk Talk. 
They told her they would upgrade her internet and secure all the apps on her phone. 
That morning, a payment was made to a new payee from Ms Ls Monzo account for 
£1050.00, which she says she didnt make. £6.01 was recovered, and Monzo has 
refunded £565. So the total loss which Ms L seeks compensation for is £478.99.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, Ms L isnt liable for payments she 
didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Ive considered whether Ms L authorised the payment  and so, whether she made 
the payment herself by carrying out all the agreed steps or whether she gave 
someone else permission to do this on her behalf. 
Ive reviewed what the agreed steps were for making a payment by bank transfer. 
Looking at Monzos website, Ms L needed the name and account details of who she 
was sending money to. She then had to tap the payments icon, followed by Pay and 
Pay by bank transfer and follow the instructions from there, which I understand 
wouldve included entering her PIN.
Im not persuaded Ms L completed these steps herself or gave permission for 
someone else to on her behalf. 
In saying this, Ive considered some comments Ms L made in her first call with 
Monzo. She mentioned how she was told that if she logged in and her money wasnt 
there, to call her bank. She also said she provided account details so the fraudsters 
could transfer back the money. 
At the time, Monzo didnt probe her on these points  or, as its admitted, carry out 
much of an investigation into what happened. So its difficult to know exactly how this 
unfolded.
But Im mindful that these comments are about getting the money back  which is 
different to having made or permitting a payment to be made in the first place. On 
this note, Ms L has consistently said that she didnt make the payment, from her first 
call with Monzo when the scam was uncovered. 
Ive also reflected on the nature of the scam. Ms L was told that TalkTalk would 
upgrade her internet and secure the apps on her phone. She said apps closed 
without her touching them; that her phone turned off at the end of the call and that 
her Monzo app had been deleted. Indeed its the latter point that led to her calling 
Monzo in the first place. 
So I think its likely that, under the guise of upgrading her internet and securing her 
apps, the fraudsters gained remote access to Ms Ls phone. 
With this in mind, and given its similarities to lots of other scams our service has seen 
involving unauthorised payments, I think its likely that the fraudsters carried out the 
payment. I dont think it would make sense that, having created a scenario to gain 
access to Ms Ls phone, they would then ask her to carry out the payment. 
I dont need to make a finding on what Ms L meant when she talked about getting the 
money back  I only need to decide whether she authorised the payment. But I do 
think its plausible she might have seen her that money was missing during the scam. 
And the fraudsters couldve have reassured her that it was part of the process and 
shed get it back. 
So, in all, Im satisfied that the payment was unauthorised. 
I dont think Ms L failed with intent to keep her details safe  she genuinely believed 
what she was doing was to upgrade her internet and secure her apps.
 
Im also not satisfied she failed with gross negligence. TalkTalk are Ms Ls genuine 
internet provider, so I can see why she believed who she was talking with. And I think 
the scenario she was presented with sounded credible. Like most people, Ms L 
wasnt an expert in cyber security or particularly tech savvy. So when someone who 
she believed was a familiar professional told her that they needed to upgrade her 
internet and secure her apps, she trusted them. I think lots of people would have. 
For the reasons Ive already set out, I think the fraudsters gained access to Ms Ls 
phone. We dont know exactly how this happened, but given that these sorts of tools 
are legitimately used to help with peoples tech problems, I can see how she 
wouldve been convinced. So I dont think Ms L was significantly careless in allowing 
this to happen. 
With access to Ms Ls phone, the fraudsters wouldve only needed her PIN to transfer 
the money. Its not clear that Ms L directly shared this. In the first call she had with 
Monzo after the scam, she answered that she handed over a four-digit code. But as 
Monzo has itself noted in its investigation, its not clear she understood what was 
meant by this. And Im mindful that fraudsters couldve seen Ms Ls PIN other ways  
for example, if she uses the same number for her phone or any other apps. 
And even if she did share her PIN, Im not convinced it follows that she failed with 
gross negligence. Monzo says its reasonable to think that an internet service 
provider would need your PIN. But this ignores the context of what happened  Ms L 
believed she was talking with a trusted professional, who were acting in her best interests and securing her Monzo App. In that light, I can see how someone might be 
cleverly duped into believing this was part of the process. 
Going further, reasonableness isnt the benchmark. Instead, it whether Ms Ls actions 
fell so far below what a reasonable person wouldve done, that she failed with gross 
negligence. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont consider she did. 
It follows Ms L isnt liable for the transaction and Monzo need to put things right  by 
refunding her losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside interest to 
compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience she suffered because Monzo 
didnt refund this sooner  she said she needed the money for her family and despite 
chasing several times, a proper investigation wasnt carried out. So I also award 
£200 to reflect these non-financial losses.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Ms Ls complaint and I order Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Pay Ms L the total of the unauthorised transaction (£1050.00), less any amount 
already returned (I understand this to be ££141.01). 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman