DRN-1974864
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) settled a claim 
they made on their home insurance policy following a burglary. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr R held a home insurance policy, which was underwritten by RSA. In August 
2019, their home was burgled. At the time of the burglary Mrs and Mr R had their two 
children and the son of a friend and their colleague staying overnight at their house. 
The burglary happened after Mrs and Mr R had retired to bed, which was at around 9  9:30 
pm. Their children and guests were out at that time. At 10:30 pm Mrs and Mr Rs son 
returned home, which was earlier than anticipated. But their daughter didnt return home that 
night. 
Mrs and Mr Rs two guests returned to the property at around 11:30 pm. On doing so they 
locked the front door using the key theyd been given by Mrs and Mr R. But they didnt 
engage the deadlock or mortice lock as they believed Mrs and Mr Rs children to still be out. 
And they placed the front door key in a receptacle on a radiator cover around seven feet 
away from the front door before retiring to bed.
At some time between 11:30 pm and 1 am that night burglars used a rod and magnet device 
in order to fish Mrs and Mr Rs housekey from the receptable on their radiator cover via 
their letterbox. The burglars then gained access to Mrs and Mr Rs property using the key 
theyd removed from inside. 
During the burglary Mrs and Mr Rs car was stolen together with some personal items. They 
reported the theft to the police and contacted RSA in order to make a claim under their home 
insurance policy for the personal items that had been stolen. The theft of their vehicle was 
dealt with by another insurer.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster, which Ill refer to as S in this decision, to assist it in dealing 
with Mrs and Mr Rs claim. S attended their property on 21 August 2019 in order to ascertain 
the circumstances of the theft. During this meeting Mrs and Mr R informed S the deadlock 
and mortice lock hadnt been engaged at the time of the burglary. 
Based on what Mrs and Mr R had told S, RSA declined to cover their claim. While it didnt 
doubt theyd suffered a genuine burglary, it said they hadnt engaged all locks as was 
required under their policy and it also said force and violence hadnt been used to gain entry.
Mrs and Mr R were unhappy with RSAs decision to decline their claim and complained. 
They felt theyd done everything they could to secure their home at night. But RSA didnt 
uphold their complaint as it thought the terms and conditions were clear and hadnt been 
followed by Mrs and Mr R. It did, however, pay them £150 compensation to reflect the poor 
service and delays theyd experienced in it responding to their complaint.
Being dissatisfied with RSAs response to their complaint Mrs and Mr R referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended upholding this 
complaint. They were satisfied Mrs and Mr Rs housekey had been fished from their 
letterbox by a burglar, whod then used that key to gain entry to their house. They thought 
overall this was forcible and violent entry and didnt think it was fair and reasonable for RSA 
to rely on the force and violence exclusion in these circumstances. 
Our investigator recommended that RSA should settle Mrs and Mr Rs claim. But RSA 
disagreed. In summary, it referred to case law which set out what the courts had decided 
constituted force and violence. It didnt agree that the use of a rod and magnet to fish keys 
from within a home constituted force accompanied by a violent physical act. So, it requested 
that an ombudsman decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mrs and Mr R have gone to 
some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed points about their complaint. I 
want to assure them Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont 
address every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider is key to the complaint. 
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs and Mr R. Theyve provided a comprehensive 
account of the events leading up to the burglary and they reported the matter to the police 
who recorded and investigated the crime. 
Im satisfied, as is RSA, Mrs and Mr R suffered a genuine burglary. This is bound to have 
caused them considerable distress  their home was entered while they slept and personal 
items of financial and sentimental value were stolen. 
When looking into whether an insurer has handled a claim fairly, our service must consider 
the policy terms and conditions. And we assess whether the insurer has applied those terms 
and conditions fairly and reasonably in the way its dealt with a claim.
It was fair here for RSA to investigate the circumstances of Mrs and Mr Rs claim. It 
appointed S to do that on its behalf, which is reasonable. But, having provided evidence that 
they were victims of a genuine burglary, RSA should have settled Mrs and Mr Rs claim 
unless it could show that one of the exclusions in the policy terms applied.
I can see RSA excludes cover for theft from a policyholders home address if their home is 
lived in or occupied overnight by someone who isnt a family member unless forcible and 
violent entry is used to gain access to the property.
In this case, at the time of the burglary, Mrs and Mr Rs property was occupied by their 
children and two guests, who werent family members. So, the relevant issue for me to 
determine here is whether force and violence were used to burgle Mrs and Mr Rs home.
RSA appears to accept that the burglars gained access to Mrs and Mr Rs home address by 
fishing the key their guests had left in the receptacle by the front door from inside their 
property through the letterbox and then using that key to enter their home. Our investigator 
explained in their view why they felt this constituted both force and violence. But RSA 
disagree with that interpretation.Having taken relevant case law on forcible and violent entry into account, Im satisfied that 
theft involving a fishing device can properly be considered to be forcible and violent entry. 
Thats because a device that wouldnt normally be used to gain entry to Mrs and Mr Rs 
house has been used from outside their property to remove a key from inside. 
I appreciate that RSA has argued Mrs and Mr Rs claim shouldnt be met because the 
deadlock and mortice lock werent engaged by their guests when they retired to bed. Theres 
no evidence to suggest that the locks fitted to Mrs and Mr Rs front door didnt meet the 
requirements of their policy. And, as Ive previously outlined, my role is to consider whats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of an individual complaint. 
In this case, Mrs and Mr R say they gave their guests clear instructions as to how their 
property should be secured at night. I find their account of what they say about that plausible 
and persuasive. Its clear they wanted their guests to follow their instructions and Im 
satisfied they took reasonable steps to ensure their home would be left secure by their 
guests while they slept.
It appears that Mrs and Mr Rs guests, on returning to the property, were unaware of 
whether all family members had already returned home. Therefore, they didnt engage the 
deadlock. Had they done so, Mrs and Mr Rs children would have been unable to access the 
property with their key. In that scenario I can understand why the guests didnt engage the 
deadlock. 
It isnt clear why Mrs and Mr Rs guests didnt follow their instructions to take their key with 
them to bed. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded the key was left in a 
receptacle that was seven feet away, and not visible, from the door.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it would be fair to hold Mrs and Mr 
R responsible for the actions of their guests. I say this because thats outside their control as 
they were already asleep when their guests returned home. I also think Mrs and Mr R did 
everything they could reasonably do to make sure their home would be secure at night. 
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined, I dont think its fair and reasonable for RSA to rely on the forcible 
and violent entry exclusion in not settling this claim. It should therefore pay the claim Mrs 
and Mr R made in connection with their burglary.
Finally, I understand that RSA sent Mrs and Mr R a cheque in the sum of £150 to 
compensate them for delays and shortfalls in the service they experienced while it was 
dealing with their complaint. Like our investigator, Im satisfied this fairly reflects the trouble 
and upset Mrs and Mr R would have been caused. Its in line with awards our service has 
made in similar circumstances and its what I would have suggested had no offer been 
made. So, I wont be requiring RSA to increase the compensation its already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs and Mr Rs complaint. I direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay the claim Mrs and Mr R made in connection with their burglary.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Julie RobertsonOmbudsman