DRN-4209565
The complaint
Miss G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly gave her a credit card she 
couldnt afford. 
What happened
Miss G applied for a credit card with Capital One in November 2020. She was given an initial 
credit limit of £200 which was later increased to £700 in November 2022.
In January 2023, Miss G complained to say Capital One shouldnt have given her the credit 
card or increased her limit in 2022. She said that had Capital One completed appropriate 
checks before lending it would have seen the credit was unaffordable. 
Capital One didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said it had completed adequate checks which 
showed that Miss G had sufficient disposable income to afford the initial credit and the limit 
increase. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Capital One had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks in these specific circumstances 
and that nothing in the checks indicated that Miss G would likely struggle to repay. 
Miss G didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to granting Miss G with credit, Capital One needed to check that it would be affordable 
and sustainable for her. There isnt a set list of checks it needed to complete. Instead, it 
needed to ensure the checks it did were proportionate to the circumstances of each lending 
decision. What is considered proportionate can therefore vary and in deciding what was 
proportionate, Capital One needed to take into account things such as (but not limited to): 
the amount and type of credit, the size of any reasonable regular repayments (see: CONC 
5.2A.27R & 5.2A.28G within the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook), the cost of credit 
and Miss Gs circumstances. 
As part of the application Miss G declared that she lived at home with her parents and 
earned £16,000 per year. Capital One were entitled to rely on the information Miss G 
supplied on the application unless it knew or ought to have known it was likely to be 
inaccurate. I havent seen anything to make me think Capital One ought to have been 
concerned by what Miss G had declared. 
Capital One says it also completed a credit check and used statistical data to estimate 
Miss Gs expenditure. The credit check showed that Miss G had an existing hire purchase 
agreement with monthly repayments of £137 and a small loan of £327 with monthly 
repayments of £17. She also held a current account and two communications accounts. All 
of those accounts were up to date with no repayment difficulties. Capital One could see that 
Miss G had experienced payment difficulty around four years earlier, but given how historic 
those issues were I dont think they ought to have caused any significant concern, 
particularly where it was proposing to give her a relatively low credit limit of £200.
Overall, I think Capital One completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before opening the credit card account. And I havent seen anything within those checks that 
leads me to conclude it made an unfair lending decision. 
The credit limit was increased to £700 around two years later. Capital One says it used 
information provided by a credit reference agency to help verify whether Miss Gs previous 
stated income of £16,000 was likely to be accurate. It says the credit reference agency 
confirmed that income was likely to be reliable. 
Capital One also completed a new credit check at this time which showed that Miss G was 
still managing her existing credit facilities with no signs of difficulty. In the previous 12 
months she had also maintained her Capital One credit card reasonably well, having made 
all repayments on time and in some months paying more than the minimum due. In total she 
had repaid almost double the amount of the minimum repayment expected in the preceding 
12 months. Further, no additional fees or charges had been applied and there were no other 
concerning activities (such as large numbers of cash advances).
Based on what Capital One already knew about Miss G and the size of the overall credit limit 
it was proposing to give to her, I think the checks it did were reasonable and proportionate 
when it increased the limit in November 2022. Having considered what those checks 
showed, Im satisfied that Capital One made a fair lending decision when it increased the 
credit limit. I therefore dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably when providing Miss G 
with credit. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman