DRN-2417946
The complaint
Mr J complains Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly avoided his contents 
insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr J took out a Lloyds contents insurance policy. In June 2020 he made a 
theft claim. But Lloyds refused to pay it. Instead it avoided his policy (treating it as though it 
had never existed). It said he had, when taking out the cover, deliberately given incorrect 
information about his claims history. It said it wouldnt have offered him cover if he had 
provided accurate information. 
Mr J complained to Lloyds, but it didnt change its decision. It also denied it had provided him 
with a poor service or had treated him unfairly. 
Our investigator felt Lloyds decision to avoid the policy was reasonable. She said she hadnt 
seen anything that persuaded her it had treated Mr J unfairly or unreasonably. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer can take certain action, like avoiding a policy, if a qualifying misrepresentation 
has been made in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). I think Mr J did make a qualifying misrepresentation and that Lloyds fairly 
avoided his policy. So Im not making it reinstate his policy or consider his claim.
 
When taking out the policy online, Mr J was asked Have you or anyone currently living with 
you had any paid home contents insurance claims in the last three years?. Lloyds has 
shown he answered yes. And that when asked how many he said it was one.
Lloyds say this was an incorrect answer - a misrepresentation. It has shown Mr J actually 
had three relevant claims in the period asked about. Mr J doesnt dispute that number. So it 
seems there was a misrepresentation. 
But for Lloyds to take any action, like avoid his policy, there needs to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For that a few things are required. First of all Mr J must have failed to 
take reasonable care not to make the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things to be considered when deciding if a consumer took 
reasonable care. One is how specific and clear the question asked was. I think the questions 
about previous claims were clear and specific. And Mr J was asked to check the questions 
and his answers in the policy documentation sent to him later. Overall, I think a reasonable 
consumer would have understood the questions. 
Mr Js given various explanations for him not declaring all of the claims. Hes said he thought 
Lloyds would know about them  as they were made against a previous Lloyds policy. Im 
not persuaded by that, particularly as he chose to declare one of the claims. 
Mr Js also said he has a condition  one that can make it difficult to understand written 
information. Hes said he had memory and other medical problems. But Im not persuaded 
this had an impact on the way he answered the claims question. As he declared one claim it 
seems he probably understood what he was being asked about. And if he wasnt sure of the 
correct answer he could have taken steps to find out  perhaps by asking his previous 
insurers. Ive considered everything Mr Js said  but I think he failed to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation. 
For there to be a qualifying misrepresentation, in line with CIDRA, Lloyds also needs to 
show that without the misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover - or would have only 
done so on different terms. Its provided underwriting criteria to show if it had been told about 
all the claims it wouldnt have offered any cover. So there was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. That means Lloyds fairly avoided the policy and refused the claim.  
Lloyds said the misrepresentation was reckless. That would mean it, in line with CIDRA, it 
could keep the premiums paid for the policy. It doesnt accept what Mr J says about him not 
declaring the claims because he believed Lloyds would be aware of them  so it believes he 
acted recklessly. Im not persuaded Mr J didnt understand the claims question or wasnt 
aware of the two he didnt declare. Based on what Ive seen I cant say its unfair or 
unreasonable for Lloyds to say the misrepresentation was reckless.  
 
So Im not going to interfere with Lloyds decisions to avoid the policy, refuse the claim and 
retain the premiums. 
Mr Js referred to equality legislation and his health. Hes linked various events to Lloyds. But 
I havent seen enough to make me think, in relation to what he says, that Lloyds has treated 
him unfairly or unreasonably  or provided poor service. 
Mr Js also referred to caselaw regarding fraud and insurance claims. But Lloyds refused his 
claim because of misrepresentation  not fraud. So the caselaw hasnt changed my position 
on his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman