DRN-4260525
The complaint
Mr P complains that Pukka Insure Limited (Pukka) avoided his policy (treated it as though it 
never existed) and declined his claim following the theft of his car, under his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr Ps car was stolen in November 2022. He contacted Pukka to claim under his policy. He 
says Pukka avoided his policy saying he used it for works purposes. Mr P says he has a van 
that he uses for work. He says the telematics device installed in his car will prove where his 
car was. Mr P says Pukka should pay his claim. 
Pukka told Mr P his policy had been avoided because he regularly used his car for business 
purposes. This involved traveling between different jobs and to carry and store tools and 
equipment. Pukka says that carriage of own goods isnt an acceptable use of a private car 
policy. It says it wouldnt have provided cover had Mr P declared this. 
Pukka told Mr P hed carelessly misrepresented the information he provided when taking out 
his policy. It refunded his insurance premiums but confirmed it wouldnt indemnify him for his 
loss. 
Mr P thought this was unfair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He says Mr P told Pukka he was going to use his car for social, 
domestic, pleasure and commuting purposes. He says this type of use doesnt include the 
carriage of tools and equipment for a business. Our investigator says Pukka had shown it 
wouldnt have covered Mr P had he provided accurate information about the use of his 
vehicle. 
Mr P didnt think this was fair. He says the information from the telematics device in his car 
hasnt been provided. He says this will show his car was generally parked up Monday to 
Friday between 9am and 5pm. He says it wasnt used for working and his tools were always 
kept in his employees work van. Because he disagreed Mr P asked for an ombudsman to 
consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.
Pukka thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
responded to the question in his insurance application that asked, What do you use the car 
for?. Ive looked at the responses Mr P could choose from during his online application. The 
options were:
Social, domestic and pleasure only (SDP); Social, domestic, pleasure and commuting 
(SDPC); or SDPC and Business use
The Statement of Fact document provided at Mr Ps policy renewal in April 2022, shows he 
chose SDPC. The document explains to Mr P that he must check the information provided is 
accurate. If anything isnt accurate, he should contact his insurance intermediary 
immediately. It also explains that if the information isnt accurate, it could mean a claim being 
declined or the policy could be cancelled.
Mr P signed a witness statement following an interview that was arranged by Pukka about 
his theft claim. The following excerpts from this statement are of relevance here:
In the main, I do not use the [car] in connection with my employment, but I do sometimes 
use it to travel to jobs that may be local to the [location] area. If the job is outside of 
[location], I travel with work colleagues in a works van.
And:
In the week before the theft I had been working in [location] at [business name], fitting fire 
alarms in their warehouse. With it being a local job, I used my [car] to travel to and from the 
job from my home address.
Also:
I did have £3,000 worth of tools stored in my [car] that I was transporting from home to and 
from the job I was working on in [location]. The tools were stored in the boot out of sight and 
they were stolen along with my [car].Mr P told Pukka he only used his car for the purposes of SDPC. Yet in his statement he 
confirmed he used the car to travel to jobs he worked on in the local area. He also says he 
carried £3,000 worth of tools in his car. Ive thought about whether Mr P took reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation here. I dont think he did. 
I say this because there was an option to include business use when Mr P made his 
insurance application. I dont think travelling to different locations for business purposes, 
whilst transporting £3,000 worth of tools, reasonably fits within social, domestic or pleasure 
uses. Ive thought about whether Mr Ps situation reasonably fits with commuting. I cant 
see that this is defined in his policy terms. So, Ive considered what an ordinary everyday 
use of the word might mean. 
A dictionary definition of commuting available online defines commuting as, to travel some 
distance between ones home and place of work on a regular basis. Another online 
dictionary defines commuting as, the activity of travelling regularly between home and 
work. In his statement Mr P says he uses his car to travel to jobs when they are local. Mr 
Ps occupation means that he regularly works for different customers. This means regularly 
travelling to different places, not one place of work. 
I dont think Mr Ps use of his car, as confirmed in his witness statement, reasonably fits with 
the ordinary everyday meaning of the word commuting. I think its more reasonably accepted 
to mean travel to and from a fixed place of work. Because of this I dont think Mr P took 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when answering this question.
In its decline letter to Mr P, Pukka says carrying and storing tools and equipment in a vehicle 
is known as carriage of own goods. It provided our service with its underwriting criteria that 
shows it wouldnt offer cover at all where a vehicle is being used for this purpose. Pukkas 
underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive, so I cant share it. But Im satisfied that this 
means Mr Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
I think Pukkas decision to treat Mr Ps misrepresentation as careless is fair. I dont think he 
meant to provide inaccurate information. He explains how he uses a work van to get to jobs 
that are some distance away but uses his car for local jobs. He may have thought this should 
be covered under his policy. But the test here is that of what a reasonable person would 
think. I dont think a reasonable person thinks driving a car to different jobs, whilst carrying 
£3,000 worth of tools, fits with the answer Mr P gave about his usage. 
In these circumstances CIDRA allows Pukka to avoid Mr Ps policy and decline his claim. It 
must reimburse the premium he paid, which it says has already been done.
I acknowledge what Mr P says about the tracker device. But I dont think this information 
would make a difference to the outcome. Given that he effectively told Pukka he used his car 
for business purposes. I also note what he says about the interview taking a long time and 
that he needed to collect his daughter. Because of this Mr P says he didnt get chance to 
read the statement in full. 
I dont dispute Mr Ps comments. But he signed the witness statement to confirm its contents 
were accurate. I dont think Pukka treated him unfairly when relying on this information to 
avoid his policy.  
Having considered all of this I dont think Pukka treated Mr P unfairly, when relying on its 
policy terms and avoiding his policy for the reasons it gave. It treated him fairly when 
considering his misrepresentation as careless and in refunding his policy premiums. 
Because of this I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman