DRN-3479929
The complaint
Mr Q complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to properly notify him when his fixed term 
savings account matured. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr Q opened a two-year fixed term savings account with HSBC. 
In 2021, whilst checking a statement hed received, he realised that savings account had 
matured some time ago. And that the proceeds had been paid into an account which 
attracted a very low rate of interest. 
Mr Q complained to HSBC. He argued the bank ought to have notified him when his savings 
were due to mature so that he could make an informed decision about what to do with the 
proceeds. 
HSBC responded to say that it wrote to Mr Q to notify him shortly in advance of his savings 
maturing. Because of this, the bank felt itd done nothing wrong. 
Mr Q was unhappy with HSBCs response, so he referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Qs complaint. They explained that theyd seen a copy of 
the letter HSBC sent Mr Q on maturity and that it was correctly addressed. As a result, they 
felt the bank had met with its obligations to Mr Q and treated him fairly. 
As Mr Q did not accept our investigators assessment, the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be upholding it. Ill explain why. 
HSBC has obligations to its customers when its discussing the maturity of fixed term 
savings accounts. Guidance from its regulator, outlined in BCOBS 4.1.2G (6A), confirms that 
HSBC should notify customers when their fixed term is due to end, in good time. The 
guidance also outlines what sorts of information HSBC should include when sending such a 
notification. If I was persuaded that, contrary to the guidance from its regulator, HSBC had 
failed to notify Mr Q his savings were due to mature and hed lost out as a result, I may look 
to compensate him for that loss.
Ive looked at the evidence in this case submitted by both parties. HSBC has provided a 
letter addressed to Mr Q which is dated 7 July 2019. The letter explains Mr Qs savings 
account is imminently due to mature and contains the information noted in the guidance Ive 
highlighted above. As it was sent a little more than two weeks prior to the account maturing, 
its my view that this was sent in good time, as required by the guidance. Had it been 
received, Mr Q wouldve had the opportunity to review his options and make a decision 
about where to move his funds prior to maturity. 
But Mr Q has said he did not receive HSBCs letter, and that he doubts the bank ever sent it 
to him. Ive considered Mr Qs argument here, but on the balance of probability, I think its 
most likely that HSBC did send this letter as it says it did. Mindful that the majority of all mail 
posted is successfully delivered, whether Mr Q actually received this letter or not isnt 
something HSBC could reasonably control, beyond correctly addressing the letter and 
ensuring it was posted. If having done this, the letter failed to materialise, I couldnt fairly or 
reasonably blame HSBC for any resulting loss. Its my view that the bank fulfilled its 
obligation to Mr Q here by posting the letter in the first place. 
Mr Q has argued the impact of the missing letter couldve been mitigated had HSBC sent 
him a statement for the savings account the maturing funds were deposited in. It was his 
receipt of his July 2021 statement that prompted him to follow this matter up in the first 
place, and hes highlighted that his July 2020 statement was never received. 
Again, much like with the maturity letter, HSBC has insisted it has provided Mr Q with 
statements for his accounts. Ive seen that statements were being generated for Mr Qs 
accounts throughout this period. Ive also noted that information about Mr Qs accounts is 
available for him at his request, over the phone, and in person at the banks branches. So 
Im not persuaded the banks failed to make this information available for Mr Q. 
Mr Q has suggested that as an HSBC Premier customer, hes meant to have a relationship 
manager who should proactively contact him to ensure hes getting the best rate on his 
savings. Whilst Mr Q is indeed an HSBC Premier customer, Ive seen no evidence to 
persuade me the banks held out any of its staff to Mr Q as being in place to proactively 
ensure he was receiving the best deal for his savings. The banks website outlines the 
benefits of being a premier customer, and nowhere within its terms does it mention providing 
a service like the one Mr Q has described. So Im not persuaded the banks treated him 
unfairly by not reaching out to Mr Q to discuss his savings.  
Finally, Mr Q has explained how unhappy he is with the service he received from HSBC 
when he raised his initial concerns. Ive reviewed the banks response to him, including its 
letters and a number of the calls it had with Mr Q. Having done so, Im satisfied its 
responded to his core concerns promptly and courteously. So I shant require HSBC to offer 
any compensation.   
Having considered the matter in full, its my view that HSBC has met with its obligations to 
Mr Q and treated him fairly. So I do not uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman