DRN-2799200
The complaint
Mr C complains about the security questions he was asked by Nationwide Building Society 
when he called. Mr C also complains that Nationwide deleted payee details from his 
account.   
What happened
In February 2020 Mr C called Nationwide to use its telephone banking service. Mr C has told 
us he wanted to ask why a payee had been removed. Mr C also advised he wanted a new 
PIN for his debit card. 
A new PIN was ordered but it later came to light that Mr Cs debit card had expired. 
Nationwide asked further security questions but wasnt satisfied with the answers. Mr C was 
asked to either call back or visit a branch with ID. 
Mr C went on to raise a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) and asked for a recording of 
his call. Having listened to the call, Mr C says the information he gave was right. Nationwide 
said some of Mr Cs details didnt match its records which is why the verification process 
failed. 
Mr C complained but Nationwide didnt agree an error had been made when the verification 
process failed. Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an 
investigator. They upheld Mr Cs complaint on the basis of how the verification process was 
handled and asked Nationwide to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Barclays accepted the investigators findings, but Mr C asked to appeal. He said Nationwide 
had asked questions that had frustrated the process of verifying him. Mr C also said its still 
unclear what information he needed to provide at the branch that wouldnt match the details 
Nationwide had on file. Mr C explained he felt Nationwide had tried to deliberately stop him 
accusing his funds. Mr C also said the investigator had failed to comment on his complaint 
about a payee being deleted from his account. 
The investigator responded and said the payee had been deleted because it hadnt been 
used for 13 months. The investigator explained that in 2019 Nationwide started to remove 
payees that hadnt been used for over 13 months. The investigator said that whilst the payee 
had been deleted Mr C couldve set up a new payment. Mr C asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure both parties that Ive taken everything thats been provided into account 
when considering how to fairly resolve this complaint. If I dont address every point thats 
been made its not because I havent considered it. In this decision Ive focussed on what I 
think are the key issues. Im satisfied that I dont need to comment on every single argument 
to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. The rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service allow me to do this  and it reflects the informal nature of our dispute 
resolution service which is a free alternative to the courts.
All parties agree that the verification process failed when Nationwide tried to send Mr C a 
new debit card and PIN. When Nationwide responded to the investigators findings it said 
that the problem with the verification questions wasnt due to information it holds about Mr C. 
The problem was caused by the wording of one of the questions he was asked which led to 
his response being recorded as wrong. Nationwide has confirmed the verification questions 
have since been amended. 
I know Mr C wants a clearer answer as to how and why the verification process failed. But 
Im satisfied Nationwide has explained the process failed as a result of an incorrectly worded 
question and that it was at fault. I understand Mr C feels Nationwide was deliberately trying 
to stop him accessing funds in his account, but I havent found anything to support that. 
Mr C called Nationwide to query a payee that had been deleted. Nationwide has confirmed 
its approach is to delete payees from a customers account if they havent been used for 
over 13 months. I understand Mr C wasnt aware of Nationwides approach. But Nationwide 
is free to decide how it administers accounts and how long to leave an unpaid payee 
instruction in place. Whilst I note Mr Cs concerns, I havent found the process of setting up a 
new payee is unreasonably inconvenient. I havent found Nationwide made a mistake when 
it deleted the payee. 
I agree Nationwide made errors that led to the verification process failing in this case and 
that Mr C received poor service. Nationwide has confirmed it has the necessary information 
on file to verify Mr C and has updated its verification questions since his call. Whilst I 
appreciate my decision is likely to disappoint Mr C, Im satisfied the settlement of £100 for 
the trouble and upset caused is a fair way to resolve his complaint. As a result, Im going to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr C £100.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman