DRN-4014756
Complaint
Mr W has complained that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) irresponsibly lent to him. 
He has also said that he wasnt treated fairly when he explained that he was struggling to 
pay his loan back.
Background
MFC provided Mr W with a loan for £200 in December 2021. The loan, which had interest of 
£48, was due to be repaid in full with a single payment of £248, 30 days later. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr W and MFC had told us. And she thought that the 
checks MFC carried out before giving Mr W his loan were proportionate. She also thought 
that overall it hadnt acted unfairly when Mr W ran into difficulty repaying his loan either. So 
she didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr W was provided with a high-interest loan, intended for short-term use. So MFC needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide it irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is MFC needed 
to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr W could afford to 
repay his loan before he provided it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Mr W took out a single loan for £200. The loan was due to be repaid 30 days later. MFC 
says it agreed to Mr Ws application after hed provided details of his monthly income and 
expenditure. It says the information Mr W provided on his income and expenditure couple 
with other checks it carried out showed that hed be able to comfortably make the 
repayments he was committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr W and MFC have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ws first loan with MFC. So I dont think that 
there was any established pattern in Mr Ws borrowing needs at this stage. The information 
provided does suggest that Mr W was asked to provide details of his income and 
expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions MFC 
asked Mr W and this was Mr Ws first loan, I dont think it was unreasonable for MFC to rely 
on the information Mr W was providing.
I accept that Mr Ws actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information MFC obtained. And Im sorry to hear that 
Mr W struggled to repay his loan. But MFC could only make its decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont 
think proportionate checks wouldve extended into MFC asking Mr W to evidence what he 
was declaring.
Equally, its only really fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint where I can say a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that MFC did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend to Mr W - it carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like the 
information it mightve been provided with was inaccurate. It relied on the information it was 
provided with and given the amount of the repayment involved, Mr Ws declared income and 
Mr W was only provided with one loan, I dont think that this was unreasonable.
I turn now to Mr Ws concerns regarding MFCs response to his financial difficulties. It isnt in 
dispute that Mr W got in contact with MFC to explain that he was having difficulty repaying 
his loan. Mr W asked to repay what he owed at an amount of £40 a month. Once a lender is 
told, or it realises, that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties we would expect it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. 
Much like our adjudicator, I do think that, at least some of, MFCs correspondence to Mr W 
could have been far more empathetically worded. However, I can see that MFC did agree to 
Mr Ws request and that he was able to repay his loan. 
Ive seen what Mr W has said about having to borrow money from elsewhere, but hes also 
said that he had other significant debts even after this loan. In these circumstances, while I 
think that that MFCs correspondence could have and should have been more empathetic, I 
dont think that Mr W lost out and Im therefore not upholding this part of his complaint either. 
Overall and having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman