DRN-3130810
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the advice she received from Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory 
Services Limited (HL). 
What happened
Mrs M is represented in her complaint by her husband, Mr M but for ease, I will refer to     
Mrs M throughout my decision.
Mrs M has concerns about the advice she was given by HL in December 2020 not to transfer 
her Defined Benefits (DB) pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Mrs M says 
the report HL produced is hard to read and understand and didnt follow the framework that it 
had outlined during the fact-finding calls. 
Mrs M is unhappy that the recommendation was against transferring and that this also 
means she must pay more VAT on the advice she received. Shes also unhappy that HL 
recorded telephone conversations without seeking her permission.
Mrs M wants HL to make its report more user friendly. She thinks HL should go through the 
report in detail so the client understands why particular decisions were reached. Mrs M 
thinks HL should highlight the impact a clients age has on its advice at the point of 
engagement. Mrs M wants HL to compensate her for the VAT she has had to pay, for not 
telling her that it was recording calls and for the poor quality of the advice and report.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ms complaint be upheld. He thought HL had 
obtained all the information hed have expected. And that given the requirements set down 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), HLs report was always going to be complex. The 
investigator told Mrs M about the FCA presumption of unsuitability for transfers out of DB 
pensions.
The investigator explained that this service cant tell businesses how to conduct their 
business on a day to day basis. And that this would be for the FCA or the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) in the case of the call recordings.
In response, Mrs M has supplied evidence which demonstrate why taking control of pension 
assets is the right decision for some people. 
She has provided details of the key benefits to her and her family of transferring her DB 
pension as well as her financial capacity to transfer. Mrs M maintains that HL reached the 
wrong conclusion and that this has led to her paying more for the advice than shed 
otherwise have paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Mrs Ms complaint in my own words but our rules allow me to 
do this. I should also say that this service doesnt supervise, regulate, or discipline the 
businesses we cover. We resolve individual complaints  it would be for the regulator  the 
FCA  to make decisions about the way in which businesses work.
The FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COB) states that the starting assumption for a 
transfer from a DB scheme is that its unsuitable. So, HL should only have considered a 
transfer it could clearly demonstrate the transfer was in Mrs Ms best interests (COB 19.1.6).
COBS 9.2.1 says:
When making a personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm 
must obtain necessary information regarding the clients;: 
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) Financial situation; and 
(c) Investment objectives; 
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is 
suitable for the client and for a life policy, to propose a contract that is consistent with 
the clients insurance demands and needs. 
So, Ive looked at the financial planning questionnaire that Mrs M completed. This includes 
details of Mrs Ms and her husbands personal circumstances and financial information. It 
includes an assessment of Mrs M and her husbands attitude to risk and financial 
knowledge. And the questionnaire detailed the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) that 
Mrs M had been offered in exchange for giving up her DB pension. So, it seems that HL 
gathered all necessary information it needed to provide advice to Mrs M. 
HLs report indicated the CETV was almost £98,000 less than the amount it would cost    
Mrs M to secure a similar income from an insurer at normal retirement age. And the critical 
yield (that is the annual return required to provide benefits that matched the defined benefit 
scheme) was 9% if taking a full pension and 6.8% for a reduced pension. HL explained that 
this wasnt low enough for it to recommend transferring out of her DB scheme.
Although HL felt Mrs M had a good capacity for loss in light of the other assets she has, by 
transferring her DB pension, it said she was giving up part of the minimum  guaranteed 
income it would recommend she retained. HL also pointed out that some of Mrs Ms other 
income might change in the future when family members died and assets were divided. And 
HL explained that although Mrs M expected to inherit significant sums in the future, this 
wasnt guaranteed and so couldnt be factored into a consideration of capacity.
For all these reasons and bearing in mind the regulators position that transferring out of a 
DB scheme wont usually be suitable, I think it was fair and reasonable for HL to have 
advised against the transfer.
There are however other considerations which might mean a transfer is suitable despite 
offering lower benefits. But Im satisfied that HL considered these. For example, although 
Mrs M said she might want to access her DB pension to gift money to her son, HL could see 
she had other significant sources of capital available to her, making it unlikely Mrs M would 
have to draw down her pension to make such a gift.The law requires Mrs M to take advice on the transfer of any safeguarded benefits (such as 
those provided by defined benefit occupational pension schemes) where the value of the 
benefits is £30,000 or more. So, Mrs M needed to take advice if she wanted to transfer out of 
her employers defined benefit scheme. 
If HL had agreed to facilitate the transfer, the fees wouldve been lower than she is paying 
now. While I understand that the advice provided to Mrs M wasnt what she wanted; this 
doesnt mean that HL was wrong in the advice it provided or the way it charged her.
After receiving HLs advice, Mrs M was free to approach another adviser or a pension 
provider directly if she still wanted to proceed. HL also told Mrs M that she could look again 
at the possibility of transferring out in a few years time. I consider HL treated Mrs M fairly.
Although Mrs M is unhappy with the format and wording of the report, Im satisfied that HL 
clearly dealt with the various aspects it needed to such as Mrs Ms financial capacity, her 
objectives and financial knowledge. 
I understand that Mrs M is unhappy that HL didnt explain to her at the outset that her age 
and proximity to retirement would impact its advice. But I dont think it would have been 
appropriate for HL to have indicated that it might not recommend a transfer before it had 
gathered sufficient information from Mrs M to have been able to properly come to that 
conclusion. Its role was to gather sufficient information about Mrs M before making a 
recommendation. This is what it did.
Finally, as the investigator told Mrs M, if she remains unhappy that HL recorded her calls 
without first obtaining her consent, it would be best if she raised these concerns with the 
ICO. 
It follows that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint  and I dont direct HL to take any further 
action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman