DRN-2835513
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) declined his application for a new credit 
card.
What happened
Mr S had a Santander credit card. Its zero-interest rate period ran out on 18 May 2020. On 1 
July 2020, he called Santander. He closed the old credit card and then applied for a new 
card online. The application was declined. In August 2020 he applied for a new card and this 
was agreed.
Mr S complained that when he called Santander, he was told he would get a new card if he 
cancelled the old one. They therefore reneged on their agreement. He said that Santander 
blamed the credit reference agency. He missed out on the introductory offer on the card 
application that was declined.
In August 2020, Santander said Mr Ss application for a new card was declined because of 
adverse data showing n his credit file. He could appeal the decision but had to do this within 
30 days. Later, Santander wrote again to Mr S and said that he could obtain a copy of his 
credit file to see what was recorded on it. This might then enable him to cancel any other 
cards he might have  which might help any future applications for credit.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
She said Mr Ss application had been declined by Santanders application system. She 
listened to the calls between Mr S and Santander and there wasnt a commitment to give Mr 
S a new card. He hadnt appealed the decline decision within 30 days  so he needed to 
apply again for a new card. Overall, it was up to Santander whether they agreed to provide a 
new card to Mr S, and they had declined. So, she said Santander had acted fairly.
Mr S asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr S feels strongly about what happened. Ive reviewed his file to see what 
happened here.
Mr S maintains that Santander told him they would give him a new card if he closed his old 
one. And when he did that, they declined to give him a new card. This meant he missed out 
on the introductory offer on the new card of zero interest for a period. He was also frustrated 
as he said Santander blamed the credit reference agency for the declined application.
Ive listened to the two calls with Santander on 1 July 2020. For me, its clear that Santander 
didnt say to Mr S that he could get a new card if he closed his old one. On the calls, he was 
advised that his old cards zero interest offer expired on 18 May 2020. Mr S said, I want to 
close this (old card) anyway and can we close this one (his old card) down. The call 
handler said he could have two cards and you dont have to close the old card. Mr S 
agreed that his old card was closed, and the small credit balance was transferred to his 
current account. Mr S asked if he could apply for a new card on the phone  but the call 
handler said that this would have to be an online application. He then said he would go 
ahead and apply for a new card online  which he did on the same day. Ive seen the 
application.
I can see in Santanders records that the application was received and declined on 1 July 
2020 pending appeal. But Mr S didnt appeal the decision within 30 days  as he needed 
to. Mr S says he did appeal. We asked Santander about this and they confirmed that he 
didnt. I can see in Santanders final response on 11 August 2020 that they gave him 30 
days to appeal  but he didnt make a formal appeal. I do wonder if Mr S considers that his 
complaint to Santander was an appeal  but such an appeal is a formal and separate 
process to a complaint. I can see that Santander gave guidance on the appeals process in 
their letter of decline. To me, its clear that Mr S didnt appeal the decision.
Mr S has also said that Santander blamed the credit reference agency (CRA) for the decline 
decision. Ive considered this  and I dont think they did. In their two final responses, they 
said there was adverse data showing on Mr Ss credit file, and that he might like to get a 
copy of it to see what was showing  he could then take action to close any other credit 
facilities which were showing  as this might help future applications. In it, Santander said 
Therefore, may we respectfully advise you obtain a copy of your credit file to see what data 
is being recorded against you. On occasion, customers can have a number of credit cards 
on their profile and this would be classed as available credit. Should you have credit cards 
with other banking institutions and are not using their credit facility, it would be advisable to 
cancel these cards, as this could affect further credit being obtained due to affordability. I 
dont see this as Santander trying to blame the CRA  but trying to be helpful to Mr S.
Santander also told us that the address that Mr S put on his card application wasnt exactly 
the same as that showing on the electoral role information on his credit file. Its not clear 
whether that was the reason for the decline or not  as it was system generated  but in any 
case, it seems sensible that Mr S gets a copy of his credit report from the CRA to ensure its 
accurate. He can make changes to it by corresponding with the CRA. Its not for Santander 
to do this  as its Mr Ss data, not Santanders. Mr S has said to us he had found it difficult 
to get his credit file from the CRA  but thats an issue for him to resolve with the CRA, its 
not for Santander to do this. If Mr S wishes to make a complaint against the CRA he should 
contact them in the first instance. 
Ultimately, its for Santander to decide whether they lend to Mr S or not  its their 
commercial decision, and we are not going to interfere with that. Our role is to see if 
Santander have acted fairly and reasonably with Mr S  and in this case, I think they have.
So  and I can appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed by my decision  I wont be asking 
Santander to do anymore here.
 
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman