DRN-4190597
The complaint
Mr P complains that his credit card with Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard 
wasnt amended with the credit reference agencies to show it was settled in good time.
 
What happened
Mr P had a Barclaycard and on 19 October 2022 repaid the outstanding balance in full. Mr P 
asked Barclaycard to close the credit card and expected his account to show it was settled 
with the credit reference agencies. But Mr P has explained that when he checked his credit 
file the credit card was still showing as open with an outstanding balance. Mr P also found 
the credit card was showing as open on his online banking app. 
Mr P contacted Barclaycard and raised a complaint. Barclaycard issued a final response on 
20 December 2022 and explained that the credit card could show as open for up to 60 days 
on the app despite being repaid. And Barclaycard said the credit reference agency update 
could take up to six weeks to show. Barclaycard apologised for any poor service or 
conflicting information Mr P was given and paid him £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Barclaycard also refunded a credit balance received on another closed credit card 
on 20 December 2022. 
Mr Ps explained that when checking his credit file on 21 December 2022 the account 
showed as open and had an outstanding balance. 
Further contact was made with Barclaycard in the weeks that followed and Mr P attempted 
to raise another complaint in January 2023. In February 2023 a refunded insurance payment 
made Mr Ps a closed credit card was received. Barclaycard refunded the payment along 
with £40 compensation on 1 April 2023. But no follow up final response was issued. 
Barclaycard says it had already responded to Mr Ps complaint in December 2022 when it 
issued its final response. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ps complaint. They said Barclaycard had 
provided systems records to show the credit card had been repaid on 19 October 2022 and 
reported to the credit reference agencies as claimed. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. 
Mr P forwarded a screen print from his credit file dated 21 December 2022 that showed the 
credit card remained open with an outstanding balance. Mr P pointed out this is more than 
six weeks after his credit card had been repaid and closed. Mr P added that the credit card 
remained open on his online banking app. As Mr P asked to appeal, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I can understand why Mr P is frustrated that his credit file wasnt updated as quickly as he 
expected. Barclaycards final response dated 20 December 2022 says it was correctly 
reporting that Mr P had repaid and closed his credit card on 19 October 2022. But Mr P 
obtained a credit report on 21 December 2022 and it still showed that his credit card was 
active, with an outstanding balance. But I think its fair to note that the data on Mr Ps credit 
report was recorded as being updated on 6 November 2022, around three weeks after the 
credit card was repaid. 
I have to balance the credit file information against Barclaycards systems information that 
shows his credit card was recorded as closed and settled on 19 October 2022. Barclaycard 
has explained that credit file data is reported a month in arrears and that the data is 
compiled at the end of the month before being sent to the credit reference agencies. Once 
the information is sent, there is a lag of around six weeks before it is reflected on the credit 
file.  
Whilst I can understand why Mr P remains concerned the update wasnt applied in a 
reasonable time, Im satisfied Barclaycard did update his records with the credit reference 
once the credit card was settled. 
Mr Ps told us that the issue caused him difficulties when looking at mortgage options. But I 
havent seen any evidence that shows Mr P was delayed or declined when seeking new 
mortgage arrangements. And without any evidence of a financial loss, Im unable to award 
Mr P compensation on that basis. 
Mr Ps queried why his credit card appeared open on his app. Barclaycards confirmed that 
when it received refunds to Mr Ps closed credit card it temporarily credited them to his 
account. That means credit cards can appear active on the app, but remain closed. Im 
satisfied Barclaycard has reasonably explained why Mr Ps account appeared open on the 
online app. 
Mr P has also told us that he received correspondence from Barclaycard that was meant for 
another customer and that he believes this is a data breach. I take Mr Ps point. But as a 
service, we can only look at complaints from the consumer who has referred the matter to 
us. Whilst I understand Mr P received correspondence meant for another customer that 
caused him concern, I havent found grounds to award additional compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Barclaycard paid Mr P £50 when it issued a final response on 20 December 2022 and a 
further £40 for issues with the service provided in April 2023. In my view, the total 
compensation paid of £90 reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr P 
and is a fair and reasonable way to resolve his complaint. Whilst I agree that the service fell 
short at times, Im satisfied Barclaycard has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. As Im satisfied Barclaycard has correctly reported the 
settlement date of Mr Ps credit card and agreed fair compensation, Im not telling it to do 
anything else. My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has already agreed a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman