DRN-3930667
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund £1,000 he lost to an 
investment scam in April 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr M authorised the disputed payment he made to his Binance 
wallet using his Lloyds debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to 
the scammers from his crypto wallet). The payment was requested using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by Lloyds, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent Mr M from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that Mr M has lost £1,000 to a scam, and Im sorry to hear about the loss he 
has sustained. But this amount would not have represented large or out of character 
transaction, such that Lloyds ought to have regarded it as suspicious or indicating that he 
might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. The payment was not of such an 
amount, for example, that it would represent a significant deviation from the way Mr Ms 
account had been used in the past. 
So, having considered the payment Mr M made to Binance, Im not persuaded there was 
anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Lloyds fraud monitoring systems, or 
that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. Mr M has mentioned 
that Lloyds have blocked payments to Binance, but this only applies to credit card 
transactions. There is no such restriction for debit card payments, so there was no 
obligation on it to block the payment he made in April 2022.
Mr M also submits that his payment should be reimbursed under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). However, the Code does not apply to debit card 
transactions, so the payment Mr M made to Binance would not fall within its scope.  
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr M, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Lloyds liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman