DRN-3281276
The complaint
Mr W, on behalf of Mrs W, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
delayed the transfer of money which resulted in a loss of interest.
What happened
Mr W says he provided Virgin Money with a document to operate Mrs Ws account. He says 
there were delays in Virgin Money accepting it and as a result he was unable to transfer 
money into a new account which resulted in a loss of interest. Mr W says Virgin Money 
accepts it made a mistake from January 2021 and so the interest should be backdated to 
that date instead of the date Virgin Money has used in February 2021. He says Virgin Money 
has paid him £250 compensation which covers the same time period and so the interest 
period should be the same. He also says the relevant documents were e-mailed to Virgin 
Money and sent to it.
Virgin Money says it correctly advised Mr W about its process for accepting a Court of 
Protection order. It says it requires an original document and says it has no record of Mr W 
e-mailing it to it which would not have been accepted in any event. Virgin Money accepts it 
didnt deal with parts of Mr Ws complaint as it should and has paid £250 compensation and 
has agreed to pay interest on the balance from 18 February 2021. It says it had no authority 
prior to that date and will not backdate interest to January 2021 for that reason.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt think Virgin Money should 
backdate the interest further or do anything else in the circumstances of this complaint. The 
investigator thought that the e-mail address Mr W used had no guarantee it was monitored 
and in any event Virgin Money required an original document. And that there no evidence 
Virgin Money had received the original authority until the February 2021 date. The 
investigator also explained that we were not Virgin Moneys regulator and it is not our role to 
tell it what its process should be about this issue.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and maintains if Virgin Money accepts it didnt deal with his 
complaint appropriately from January 2021 then it follows that interest must be backdated to 
that date. He says the Virgin Money e-mail did not bounce back and it didnt say it wasnt 
monitored.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Virgin Money has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of it. I appreciate 
Mr W will be disappointed by my decision. I also make clear that I have read Mr Ws detailed 
submissions to us and listened to the telephone call recordings. There is no need for me to 
repeat in detail what all of the issues are and what the background is in detail, as they are 
well known to the parties. And they have been repeated in detail in the various views issued 
by the investigators.
I make clear that this is a complaint by Mrs W as she is Virgin Moneys customer. So, I can 
only consider any impact on her and not Mr W. I say that as Virgin Money has paid 
compensation which I think is clearly about service issues that Mr W experienced himself. 
For that reason, I dont intend to comment on that compensation award in this decision and 
instead focus only on the key issue which is if the interest Virgin Money has agreed to pay 
ought to be backdated to early January 2021. I cant see that Mr W is questioning the level of 
the compensation in any event, but his complaint is about the interest on Mrs Ws account.
I also make clear that we are not, as the investigator has explained, Virgin Moneys regulator 
and so I cant fairly comment on its internal procedure for accepting copies or original 
documents. And if it acted fairly by requiring customers to attend a branch in person to 
produce those original documents.
I appreciate that the core of Mr Ws complaint is that Virgin Money accepted it made 
mistakes in dealing with this issue which went back to early January 2021 and so interest 
should be backdated to then. I have looked carefully at Virgin Moneys final response letter 
to Mr W and can see that it accepted there were service issue with this complaint but also 
said in effect that the only Court of Protection order it received was the one received in 
branch. So, I dont think Virgin Money was accepting it was responsible for that issue and so 
it follows that I dont think Virgin Money ought to backdate the interest based on that 
complaint point. I also think Virgin Money told Mr W that there was a possibility it hadnt 
received the document and explained it could not be held responsible for the safe delivery of 
mail.
I have no doubt Mr W did e-mail Virgin Money the order in January 2021, but I also think it 
was to a generic e-mail address which I am satisfied was not monitored. I dont think it 
matters that Virgin Money didnt say the e-mail would not be monitored as it clearly said it 
may not be monitored which provided reasonable warning there was risk an e-mail would not 
be read. I also agree with the investigator that the order ought to have been registered on 
the account some time prior to any intention to transfer money.
Overall, Im satisfied Virgin Money has acted fairly by agreeing to backdate the interest as it 
has done from when it received the original order. I cant fairly order Virgin Money to 
backdate any interest to January 2021 for the reasons I have explained and in any event I 
have not seen any evidence that the money that was transferred out of the Virgin Money 
account was transferred into an account in Mrs Ws name. I have made clear that as this is 
Mrs Ws complaint, we could only consider any loss suffered by her and not others. I find this 
now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman