DRN-1623370
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) hasn't fairly compensated her for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance ("PPI")  - it hasn't added 8% interest.Mrs H wants full 
redress on her mis-sold store card.
What happened
Briefly:
AXA offered to uphold Mrs H's complaint about PPI on her store card. It offered to refund the 
PPI premiums charged to the account along with the interest charged on those premiums. It 
said that it didn't have all the transactional data on her account before 2005. But it said it did 
have the total PPI premiums paid, the interest charged and the total spend on the account. It 
said it used this information to make reasonable assumptions about the operation of Mrs H's 
account and to calculate compensation. 
It added that because its calculation showed Mrs H's account wouldn't have gone into credit 
had no PPI been charged, it wasn't necessary to add 8% interest to the compensation.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they said 
that AXAs offer was fair - they didn't think AXA needed to do anything more and it 
wasn't wrong for it to have made assumptions about the account where there was missing 
information.
Mrs H disagrees. She says the money she paid in PPI premiums would've accrued interest 
in a bank account instead, so she wants 8% compensatory interest. 
The complaint therefore comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
PPI complaints on our website and I've taken into account what's relevant here in deciding 
Mrs H's complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mrs H was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. I think the adjudicator has reached the right outcome here and theres 
not much more I feel I can usefully add to what Mrs H has already been told.
Fair compensation for mis-sold PPI on a revolving credit type product such as a store card 
as in this case, requires the business to carry out a reconstruction of the account to establish 
what position the account would have been in had PPI not been present.Essentially this involves the business refunding the PPI premiums and the interest charged 
on those premiums (they should also refund any account charges and interest on those 
charges directly caused by PPI.)
Where there is incomplete account data to fully reconstruct the account - as in Mrs H's case 
- it is fair for a business to make reasonable assumptions about the operation of the account 
using the data that is available.
It is only where a business identifies in its reconstruction that payments to the account 
without any PPI wouldve created or likely created a positive balance on the account  i.e. 
the payments would have been greater than that owed on the account - that 8% 
compensatory interest to reflect loss of opportunity is payable.
In this case, Im satisfied AXA hasn't acted unfairly in both explaining and making its offer of 
compensation. Its said that it hasn't got all the transaction history on Mrs Hs account. But 
using what data it does have to reconstruct the account, it shows that it would not have gone 
into credit had PPI not been present  Mrs H would simply have had a lower outstanding 
debit balance. And AXA has compensated Mrs H for this by returning the PPI premiums and 
the interest charged on those premiums. AXA doesn't have to do anything more.
I can see Mrs H says that the money she paid for mis-sold PPI would otherwise have been 
in a bank account earning interest. And if Mrs H's PPI was in connection with a loan or a 
mortgage for example, I accept this would've been the case. This is because of the way the 
PPI is funded - typically taken by direct debit from a consumers bank account. So in those 
circumstances 8% interest is payable for the loss of opportunity.
But in Mrs H's case the PPI was on a store card where the premiums are debited to the 
store card account attracting interest as I've referred to above - Mrs H didn't pay them from 
her bank account. The PPI simply increased the amount of money Mrs H owed on her 
account. So as Ive said above, I think AXA has acted fairly in compensating Mrs H and is in 
line with what wed expect them to do.
If Mrs H hasn't done so already she might like to look at our website www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk where weve set out the approach Ive described above - Mrs H should 
type in PPI redress into the search bar. I hope this will further reassure Mrs H that she has 
not been treated unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman