DRN-3416998
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard refused to transfer a 
refunded transaction credited to his Barclaycard account to his bank account.
What happened
Mr P received two refunded transactions into his Barclaycard account. At Mr Ps request, 
Barclaycard agreed to transfer one of the refunds to his bank account. But it didnt agree to 
transfer the other. So, Mr P complained to Barclaycard.  
Barclaycard responded saying that as Mr P used is Barclaycard to make the payments it 
correctly applied the refunds to his Barclaycard account. And the refunds were used to 
reduce the balance owing on that account. It added that it can use its discretion to transfer a 
refund to a bank account and thats what it did with one of the refunds at Mr Ps request. 
Mr P continued corresponding with Barclaycard, but it didnt change its position, so Mr P 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked what both Mr P and Barclaycard had said. And she didnt 
think Barclaycard had done anything wrong, so she didnt uphold the complaint.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate 
Mr P will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
But firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ps complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome. 
When a consumer receives a refund from a merchant, normal industry practice is that the 
refund is applied to the account the transaction was made from. And the refunded amount 
reduces any balance owed by the account holder to the card provider  in this case what   
Mr P owed Barclaycard. Consequently, the card provider isnt required to transfer the refund 
elsewhere  unless the refund places a credit card account in a credit. 
Its not in dispute that Mr P made the transactions on his credit card and that account had a 
balance outstanding  so Im satisfied Barclaycard applied the refund correctly.
What is in dispute is that Barclaycard treated Mr Ps two requests to transfer the refunds he 
received to his bank account differently. And I can see why Barclaycards decision to transfer 
one refund to his bank account and not the other would appear inconsistent to him. 
But having thought about this - and taking into account the way refunds should normally be 
treated as mentioned above, Im satisfied that Barclaycard used its discretion regarding one 
of Mr Ps transfer requests. And this decision was made in Mr Ps favour - which it wasnt 
obliged to do. As such, Im also satisfied that it would be unfair to expect Barclaycard to 
agree to any every request to transfer a refund to a bank account simply because it had 
agreed to another. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard hasnt done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. 
So, I wont be asking it to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman