DRN-1447080
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about Capital One (Europe) plc charges and interest on his credit card 
account.
What happened
Mr C says he lost his job in November 2018 and wrote to Capital One in December 2018 to 
tell it about the change in his circumstances. He says Capital One continued to charge him 
interest and fees which allowed the debt to increase. Mr C says Capital One's behaviour is 
unethical and unfair, and he would like the charges and interest refunded.
Capital One says it has no record of the letter about Mr C's change in circumstances. It says 
Mr C complained to it in May 2019 and it replied 10 days later telling him that it was prepared 
to help him, but it required him to either complete a means form or contact its specialist 
team. It also says it made clear the charges and interest were correctly applied in line with 
account terms and conditions and that it could only freeze interest and charges when a plan 
was agreed. Capital One says Mr C didn't return the means form or agree a plan with it and 
so it ended the agreement and registered a default. It says it sent a number of letters to Mr C 
asking him to contact it and offering support in early 2019.
Mr C brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought there was no record from either party of the letter sent by Mr C to 
Capital One in 2018 but that Capital One had sent numerous letters to Mr C about the debt. 
The investigator thought Mr C ought to have made contact with Capital One far sooner than 
he did, as it ought to have been clear charges and interest were being applied to the 
account. The investigator listened to the call between the parties and didn't think Mr C 
mentioned the letter he said he sent and that he ended the call before any agreement could 
be reached. 
Mr C doesn't accept that view and questions why Capital One didn't end the agreement 
earlier as it was clear he couldn't make a payment. He says he was in financial difficulties 
and Capital One's behaviour was unacceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I can see that Mr C agreed to when 
the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that interest and late payment 
fees will be charged, where for example there are missed payments. I'm satisfied that is 
what took place here, that Mr C missed a number of required payments which meant interest 
and late payment fees were applied to his account. So I don't think Capital One made a 
mistake or acted unfairly when Mr C failed to make any payments for about six months and I find it acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr C questions why Capital One was allowed to continue to add the charges 
and interest, and says it should have closed the account far earlier. The Information 
Commissioners' Office (ICO) recommends that a default be registered between three and six 
months in circumstances where a relationship has broken down and there are missed 
required payments. So I don't think Capital One made a mistake here or acted unfairly by 
closing Mr C's account about six months after the first missed payment.
I also appreciate that Mr C says he told Capital One in a letter about the loss of his job. 
Capital One says it didn't receive that letter and Mr C hasn't provided a copy of it. In any 
event I don't think that letter would have been enough for Capital One to have stopped the 
charges and interest. I think it would have needed to have spoken to Mr C and completed a 
means assessment. I also think it reasonable to have expected Mr C to have questioned 
why interest and fees continued to be charged. And have made contact with Capital One at 
the time he says he sent the letter as it ought to have been clear the letter hadn't been acted 
on by Capital One.
I can see that Capital One wrote to Mr C on numerous occasions in the early part of 2019 
and continued to apply interest and charges to his account. In those circumstances I would 
have expected Mr C to have made contact with Capital One. But I don't think he did until he 
complained to it in May 2019. Capital One told Mr C in it's response to his complaint that it 
would offer help to Mr C, but he needed either to complete a means form or contact its debt 
team. I don't think Mr C did complete that form or make contact with the debt team. So I'm 
satisfied that Capital One acted positively and sympathetically to Mr C's position and fairly 
told him that it could help, but he needed to speak to it. And that interest and fees would 
continue until an agreement could be reached.
I have listed to the call between the parties and I'm satisfied Mr C told Capital One that "your 
not going to get a payment from me" and that he then ended the call. So I don't think Capital 
One could have done any more to help Mr C during that call or agree any repayment plan 
with him.
Overall I'm satisfied that Capital One has acted in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions and offered appropriate help to Mr C when it became aware of his financial 
difficulties. For those reasons I can't fairly order Capital One to refund any interest or 
charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman