DRN-2603406
The complaint
Ms S and Mr G have complained about the actions of Tipton & Coseley Building Society 
(Tipton) in relation to paying off a county court judgment (CCJ) obtained against them by 
their freeholders. As a result, the CCJ has affected their credit files.
Ms S, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, would like the CCJ removed and her and 
Mr Gs credit files repaired.
What happened
Mr S and Mr G purchased a leasehold property with the assistance of a mortgage from 
Tipton. One of the terms and conditions of the mortgage is that Mr S and Mr G are liable to 
pay ground rent and service charges on the property. If they dont do so, Tipton is entitled to 
pay these on their behalf and add the cost to the mortgage.
On 13 March 2020, Mr S and Mr Gs freeholder obtained a CCJ against them due to unpaid 
service charges. This was a default judgment, meaning Ms S and Mr G had not replied to 
the claim. The CCJ was for £893.35 and states that if the full amount of the judgment debt is 
paid within one month, Mr S and Mr G could ask the court to cancel the entry on the Register 
of County Court Judgments, Orders and Fines (the Register).
On 18 March 2020 Tipton received a letter from the freeholders solicitors explaining that a 
CCJ had been obtained against Ms S and Mr G, requesting payment.
On 19 March 2020, Tipton wrote to Ms S and Mr G asking them to make a payment of 
£898.35 direct to the freeholders solicitors within seven days, and if they did not, Tipton 
would pay this on their behalf and add it to the mortgage. Ms S and Mr G did not pay the 
money to the solicitors or respond to Tiptons letter.
On 27 March 2020 Tipton wrote to Ms S and Mr G again, noting that there had been no 
response from Ms S and Mr G to the letter of 19 March 2020. As a result, Tipton said it had 
paid the outstanding amount and that this would be added to the mortgage. 
I am told the payment was sent on 8 April 2020, but because of the Easter Bank Holiday, 
wasnt received until 14 April 2020, which was one day outside the one-month time limit for 
the CCJ to be removed from the Register.
As a result, Ms S and Mr Gs credit files have been impacted. Ms S says that Tipton is no 
longer willing to grant them any further borrowing, and the CCJ is impacting their ability to 
raise credit elsewhere.
Tipton didnt uphold the complaint, so Ms S and Mr G brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where an investigator looked at it. He didnt think it should be upheld.
Ms S asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. Ms S says that the issue in the 
complaint isnt about enforcement action due to not paying the CCJ, but is about Tipton not 
taking action quickly enough to ensure the CCJ could be removed from the Register.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The documentation on file shows an underlying trend  Ms S and Mr Gs failure to respond 
to correspondence  from the freeholders, the court and Tipton. As a result of not 
responding to the court claim, the CCJ was issued in default.
Ms S and Mr G also didnt respond to Tiptons letter of 19 March 2020 about the CCJ, or the 
letter dated 27 March 2020 in which Tipton said it had paid the debt. Ms S says that she 
assumed the payment had been made on 27 March 2020. Ms S says that the impact of the 
payment only being credited on 14 April 2020 has had a devastating effect on her and Mr G.
But Tipton was not, and could not have been, aware of the date by which payment needed 
to be made in order for the CCJ to be removed from the Register, because it didnt receive a 
copy of the CCJ (and to be clear, this wasnt something it needed to see, as Tipton wasnt a 
party to the court proceedings). 
There is nothing in Tiptons file to show that, after receiving the letter dated 19 March 2020, 
Ms S or Mr G contacted Tipton to explain the importance of making payment within a month 
of the date of the CCJ. Given this, Im satisfied Tipton isnt at fault here. If time was of the 
essence, it was up to Ms S and Mr G to make sure Tipton was aware of this. Tipton cant be 
held responsible for not keeping to a timescale it didnt know about.
So although I appreciate the CCJ has had an effect on Ms S and Mr Gs ability to raise 
credit, Im not persuaded Tipton is at fault here.
If theyve not already done so, Ms S and Mr G could contact the freeholders solicitors to 
check the date when the payment from Tipton was received. If this was before 13 April 2020 
(the date the one-month deadline expired), Ms S and Mr G could ask Registry Trust Limited 
(which operates the Register) whether the two Bank Holidays that fell when payment was 
due affects their situation, if they are able to prove payment had been received by the 
solicitors before the deadline expired. I dont know if this would be successful or not, but if 
Ms S and Mr G havent already considered this option, it is a proactive step they can take to 
see if there is still an avenue open to them try to recover the situation.
However, as Ive stated above, Im satisfied Tipton didnt know payment had to be made by 
13 April 2020 and so its done nothing wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman