DRN-4164826
The complaint
Miss A complained that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (Madison) 
issued a notice of default and then unfairly registered the default on her credit file. She also 
complained that Madison didnt offer appropriate support when she had financial difficulties. 
What happened
In November 2020, Miss A took out a loan with Madison of £5,000.00 over 36 months. The 
interest charge was £3,163.36, making the total amount repayable £8,163.36. The 
contractual monthly payment was £226.76.
The first payment became due in January 2021, and Miss A made the first four payments on 
the loan on time. At the end of April 2021 Miss A contacted Madison to say that she was 
having financial difficulties. She initially asked for a payment holiday, but agreed with 
Madison that she would pay £50 each month for two months and the arrangement would be 
reviewed after that. Miss A said she felt the Madison representative wasnt empathetic about 
her situation. 
In May 2021 she paid £50 as agreed. She was due to pay the same amount in June 2021, 
but the direct debit failed, although its not entirely clear why that happened, and Miss A said 
she wasnt told about it. 
Madison issued a notice of default on 9 July 2021 and subsequently registered the default 
on Miss As credit record. Miss A contacted Madison on 14 July, at which point she raised 
her complaint. 
Miss A thinks that Madison should remove the default on her credit file, and she would also 
like an apology for her treatment by the Madison representatives.
Miss A has also made reference to the overall affordability of the loan and questioned 
whether Madison had lent responsibly. However, this wasnt the subject of her original 
complaint to Madison, and it hasnt had an opportunity to answer that point, so I am not 
considering it in this decision. If Miss A remains unhappy on this point she should contact 
Madison. 
When Miss A complained to Madison, it responded to say that it did not uphold her 
complaint. So she brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked onto it but 
thought that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss A was unhappy with this and asked that 
the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
I issued a provisional decision in May 2023, in which I explained that I proposed to uphold 
part of Miss As complaint - I wasnt satisfied that Madison had acted fairly in registering the 
default on Miss As credit record, so my conclusion was that the default should be removed. 
Miss A responded to say that she agreed with my provisional decision. Madison did not 
respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the part of Miss As complaint relating to the registration of the default.  
Ill explain why. 
In my provisional decision, I set out my findings as follows:
Madison sent in recordings of the calls between it and Miss A, along with the loan 
documentation and a statement showing the transactions to date. It also sent in a list of its 
attempts to contact Miss A. and a copy of the email sent to her after the payment 
arrangement was agreed in April 2021. 
Having listened to the call from April 2021, when Miss A told Madison about her financial 
difficulties, I think the representative was reasonable in offering the initial repayment 
arrangement, with this being reviewed after two months. The representative explained that 
the option of a payment holiday was not available  the requirement to offer that particular 
type of support ended on 31 March 2021, in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Covid-19 guidance. Miss A was unhappy that a payment arrangement would be 
reflected on her credit record, but lenders are required to report accurate information to the 
credit reference agencies. 
The representative went through Miss As income and expenditure, which showed that, at 
that point, her outgoings exceeded her income. Miss A said she would be supported by her 
family, after which the representative agreed with Miss A that a reduced monthly payment of 
£50 could be made for two months. Miss A would then need to call Madison at the end of the 
two months to review her position.
Its clear that Miss A was distressed about the situation, but I think the representative 
explained the arrangement and next steps clearly, and an e-mail sent to Miss A the same 
day confirmed the position. Lenders are required to treat customers with forbearance and 
due consideration when financial difficulties arise, and based on the call recording and email, 
Im satisfied that Madison did so in offering a reduced payment for two months with the 
position to be reviewed after that. 
However, Im not satisfied that Madison acted fairly in registering the default on Miss As 
credit record. 
Looking at the list of transactions, I can see that, at the end of June 2021, Miss A had 
arrears of £403.52  equivalent to just under two monthly payments. Miss A made the full 
monthly payments of £226.76 in July, August, and September 2021. She missed the 
October payment, but after resuming payments in November, she then cleared the arrears of 
£630.28 (just under three monthly payments) in full in January 2022. Miss A missed a further 
payment in April 2022, although she told us she tried to make the payment via her debit card 
without success, but in any case this seems to have been made up in the following month 
and the account has remained up to date since then. 
Ive considered what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says about what should 
be reported. The ICO issued a document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. I consider it reasonable to rely 
on this, as, when determining a complaint, one of the factors Im required to take into 
account is good industry practice. In my view, these principles constitute good industry 
practice in this area.Principle 4 of this document says If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep 
to the revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the 
relationship has broken down. This section of the document goes on to say that As a 
general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by the time 
you are 6 months in arrears. It also says If an arrangement is agreed .. a default would 
not normally be registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.
As I explained above, the highest level of arrears on Miss As loan account was just under 
three monthly payments. 
Ive considered the point about an arrangement having been broken, and I accept that Miss 
A missed the second payment of £50  due in June 2021 - under the arrangement she 
agreed with Madison, although its not clear why the payment didnt go through. The 
information provided by Madison showed that it tried to contact her on at least two occasions 
by phone, and on other occasions by text, although Miss A said she wasnt aware of these 
attempts, or that the payment had failed. It also seems that Miss A didnt contact Madison in 
June 2021 as she should have done. However, Miss A made the full contractual payment on 
1 July  eight days before the notice of default was issued  which suggests that her 
financial position may have improved. But I cant see that Madison attempted to contact her 
again before issuing the notice, to review her finances.
Miss A then called Madison on 14 July in response to the notice of default. She was clearly 
very unhappy about the situation, but I think the representative could have done more to 
explain clearly the content of the notice and its implications. There was a brief reference to a 
new arrangement, but it wasnt clear what might have been possible (and over what period), 
and at this point in the call Miss A was very frustrated, saying that she couldnt do anything 
more. I also note that Miss A said shed had some mental health issues, but this was not 
explored further. The representative talked about collection activities without explaining 
what they were, and said that the issuing of the notice of default was out of his hands. 
Having said that, I dont think the representative was unsympathetic in his manner, but Miss 
A was very upset and not necessarily receptive to a more detailed discussion at that point. 
But I think Madison could reasonably have made a further attempt to explain to Miss A 
(perhaps in writing or in a separate phone call) what might be possible for her - especially as 
the full contractual payment had only recently been made  rather than proceed to 
registration of the default. The notice was issued within a short period of Miss A saying she 
had financial difficulties, and there was no attempt to go through her financial position or 
what might have changed since April to allow her to make the full payment in July. 
Taking all this into account I dont think I can fairly say that the arrangement had broken 
down at the point the notice of default was issued, given that the full payment had been 
made just beforehand and Madison had not attempted to find out Miss As updated financial 
position. And the arrears never reached three monthly payments. So overall I dont think 
Madison treated Miss A with forbearance and due consideration  or in line with ICO 
Guidance  in registering the default on Miss As credit record when it did (or indeed at any 
later point as the arrears were cleared in January 2022 and the account is now up to date).
I said in my provisional decision that my conclusion was that this part of Miss As complaint 
should be upheld, and therefore the default should be removed from Miss As credit record, 
although I do consider it fair for the missed or reduced payments to remain on her credit 
record for the purpose of accuracy. As no further evidence or information has been provided by either party, I have no reason to 
change my conclusion. So I am upholding the part of Miss As complaint relating to the 
registration of the default. 
Putting things right
Madison should remove the default from Miss As credit record with the Credit Reference 
Agencies.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I uphold Miss As complaint about the registration of the 
default. Madison CF UK Limited should update Miss As credit record as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman