DRN-2665879
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the way in which One Sure Insurance Limited (One Sure) has 
managed a commercial motor insurance policy he took out on his van in 2019. One Sure are 
an intermediary who set up and managed Mr Ks policy at his request. It is not the 
underwriter of the policy.
What happened
Mr K took out a commercial van policy in July 2019 through the intermediary One Sure. He 
was quoted an annual premium which he agreed to pay in instalments. Between July 2019 
and January 2020, a number of issues arose. The policy was cancelled following a missed 
payment on 29 January 2020.
Almost immediately after the policy started Mr K changed the cover from third party fire and 
theft to fully comprehensive, incurring a premium increase. Issues arose soon after this 
when the underwriter of the policy queried why Mr K hadnt disclosed a previous IN10 
motoring conviction. One Sure also sought evidence of Mr Ks four years courier experience. 
Following evidence provided by the DVLA about the IN10, and the non-receipt of Mr Ks 
previous courier experience, the underwriter of the policy re-rated the policy premium and 
asked One Sure to increase Mr Ks monthly payments. There was a missed payment in 
August, which Mr K manually rectified, and there were two further changes to the policy later 
in the year, made by Mr K. In November Mr K asked how to cancel the policy, but he didnt 
cancel and in January there was another missed payment. At end of January 2020 One Sure 
cancelled the policy on behalf of the underwriter and took what it felt was the outstanding 
balance of £2,992.84 from Mr Ks account as per its terms of business. 
Mr K complained in February 2020 and One Sure offered to refund a portion of the 
outstanding balance. But Mr K was unhappy with this and said he wanted a full refund. So, 
One Sure withdrew its offer. One Sure said Mr K initiated an indemnity claim on the direct 
debit before debt collection commenced but Mr K has told us that One Sure went into three 
different accounts and took his money without consent. One Sure has also indicated that Mr 
K had initiated further indemnity claims with his bank on two other occasions during the life 
time of the policy, affecting payments made in September, October and November 2019. 
One Sure says that a number of mid-term amendments along with a driving history that was 
either incorrect or that couldnt be validated increased the premium and that Mr K had a poor 
payment history. One Sure said it had called Mr K to try and discuss these issues, but he 
was too busy to take its calls. One Sure said the client is responsible for making payments 
on his policy and disclosing all material facts. One Sure say that it cancelled the policy as 
per the terms of business following a non-payment.
Mr K brought the complaint to our service. He said One Sure had made an error with his 
declared no claims discount. He said One Sure had mistakenly recorded his no claims 
bonus declared as four years, and that he never said this. He said he complained about this, 
but nobody would listen. He also said he had been unaware of the IN10 conviction on his 
driving record. He said the premium increases were unfair and he would never have taken 
this policy if hed known how expensive it was going to be. Hes provided samples of 
cheaper alternative quotes from that time. He says One Sure just dipped into his accounts 
and took what was owed, without warning. He says this has led to a default marker on his 
credit file which has in turn lead to him being refused finance for a new van.   
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this case on 26 February 2021. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not planning on upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is the high level of premium increases applied to this policy during
its lifetime, and the impact these increases have had on Mr Ks ability to pay the premium.
Mr K says if hed known the premium was going to become so expensive, he would never
have taken the policy. He also feels One Sure made an error by recording his no claims
discount incorrectly, when he first took out the policy. So, lets first go through the sale and
what he declared.
Ive listened to the sales call provided. Mr K was changing a motor trade policy to a courier
policy. Theres a debit balance transfer from his previous policy, added to this one. But this
policy is starting as a new policy.
Courier Experience Discount
During the call Mr K is asked: Do you have any courier no claims bonus? He says No, not
in my name. Hes then asked, Have you got any courier experience at all? Mr K says, four
years, and he names the company he has previously driven for. Later in another segment of
the call, when confirming Mr Ks sole trader status, the agent says, its four years
experience right? and Mr K says yeah.
Following this call One Sure submit all of Mr Ks details to the underwriter. And further to this
the underwriter asks One Sure to obtain evidence to support Mr Ks four years courier
experience with a letter from the company hed previously driven for. The underwriter also
wants a copy of Mr Ks driving licence and his national insurance number. One Sure has
provided screen shots to show its attempts to call Mr K about this. Theres a note of a
telephone call on 16 July 2019 which says, called client, could not speak, will email. One
Sure has provided a copy of an email sent to Mr Ks email address on 22 July 2019, which
sets out clearly the documentation thats required including Evidence of your four years
courier experience in the form of a letter(s) from your current/previous employer(s) on letter
headed paper, confirming the dates to and from that you worked for them as a courier.
Theres also evidence of a further telephone call on 26 July 2019 which says called insd
busy, advsd getting o/s docs sorted, advsd calling for something else, still too busy, advsd
will send email and text (sic).
So, I think its clear that One Sure needed evidence of Mr Ks courier experience. However,
this evidence was never received and on 29 July 2019 the underwriter wrote to One Sure
and said Please upload this document within 7 days 05/08/2019 to prevent the no claims
bonus being stepped back to zero and an additional premium being applied. The additional
premium for the above policy that will be applied without receipt of courier experience will be
£ £1,475.60 including a £30.00 fee and will be applied in 7 days time.
On 29 July 2019 One Sure wrote to both Mr K and the underwriter. In the letter to Mr K hewas advised that his policy would cancel in seven days. The email to the underwriter said it
had sent a cancellation letter to Mr K in the absence of providing a drivers licence only.
The timeline provided to us by One Sure show that on 31 July 2019 a drivers licence was
provided and the notice of cancellation was revoked. However, the notes also say the NCB
supplied was insufficient and notice to step back the bonus with an AP was also issued
from the Underwriter. This additional premium was applied to Mr Ks policy from 6 August
2019.
I want to fast forward now to the conversation that Mr K had with One Sure on 29 January
2020. This was a long call with several notes on file. But one of the notes says that Mr K
feels that the policy was set up fraudulently. The agent advises it was set up based on the
information that he gave at inception, and that evidence from his previous employer as a
courier was required. At this point Mr K states that this was never explained to him.
Throughout this whole complaint Mr K is adamant that One Sure has incorrectly recorded
that he declared four years no claims discount. And from listening to the call recordings its
clear that Mr K didnt declare four years no claims discount. From the evidence Ive seen,
hes answered the questions correctly in the inception call. He declared zero no claims
discount and four years courier experience.
Its not unusual for an underwriter to seek evidence to support some of these answers. So,
an email was sent to Mr K. However, it would appear that Mr K misunderstood what was
required and he provided evidence of his no claims discount and not evidence of his
courier experience.
But as the evidence he submitted was deemed insufficient by the underwriter, it then applied
the additional premium. And this then led to a seven-month standoff between Mr K and One
Sure, because Mr K felt One Sure had recorded his no claims discount incorrectly, whilst
One Sure continued to deny any error.
I appreciate that One Sure made every attempt to contact Mr K at the time. But I also
appreciate that as a sole trader Mr K was busy. But the onus is on Mr K to make a fair
representation of his driving history. And I believe this was a genuine error on Mr Ks behalf.
From listening to the calls and reading the call notes I think its quite clear that Mr K thought
all he had to provide was evidence of his no claims discount, and he didnt understand that
he was actually receiving a discount for his courier experience and this is what the
underwriter wanted.
A misunderstanding by Mr K has led him to submit the wrong information. And this in turn led
to the underwriter imposing an additional premium to his policy. However, this doesnt mean
that One Sure acted in error. As an intermediary its role was to request information
accurately and pass it on to the underwriter when received. And from what I can see thats
what One Sure did. So, I dont think One Sure did anything wrong and I cant ask it to do
anything more.
Driving Conviction
I would now like to move on to the additional premium imposed for the undeclared driving
conviction. Mr K says he didnt declare the IN10 as he wasnt aware of it. He says the IN10
only came to light after he took out the policy. He says hes spoken to the police whove
referred him to the courts to seek clarity on this. But Mr K hasnt had any success with this.
However, One Sure has provided a screen shot of Mr Ks driving record from the DVLA. It
shows an IN10 recorded on it. So even if Mr K wasnt aware of it, and is now seeking
clarification, One Sure hasnt done anything wrong by passing this information onto the
underwriter so it could factor it into the pricing of this policy. One Sure has no influence over
what the underwriter would do with this information, so if Mr K remains unhappy, he maywant to consider raising this with the underwriter. But by passing on this information I cant
say that One Sure has done anything wrong here.
The cancellation of the policy.
Mr K doesnt believe the policy shouldve been cancelled. The policy premium instalment
wasnt paid in January 2020. That fact is not disputed. And in this circumstance the policy
terms and conditions have provision to cancel the policy when this happens. The policy term
says: Cancellation by us  non-payment of premium. We or your insurance intermediary
can cancel this policy by giving you 7 days notice either in writing or by registered e-mail to
the last address you notified to us. Im conscious that One Sure didnt write the terms and
conditions, and its only role was to impose them for the underwriter. Again, if Mr K has an
issue with the cancellation, he will have to raise this with the underwriter. But I think One
Sure acted fairly in the circumstance and I cant see that its done anything wrong by
imposing the cancellation as requested.
The premium charged at the time of cancellation
Mr K has raised concerns about the amounts taken from his accounts in January, February
and March 2020, and the methods used to take these amounts. However, I need to clarify
that I can only comment on the fees charged by One Sure in this decision. Any queries
about premium calculations or additional premiums that were calculated and requested by
the underwriter can only be answered by the underwriter. Further to this the policy was being
paid in instalments, so it was also subject to fees from a finance provider. Again, Im unable
to comment on these fees in this decision as these issues can only be raised with the
specific finance provider.
The terms of business provided by One Sure set out under the heading What You Pay a
list of charges it will charge. These include set up fees, cancellation fees and amendment
fees. And looking at the history of payments provided by One Sure I can see that it has
charged Mr K the appropriate fee amounts in accordance with the action been taken. So, Im
satisfied that One Sure made its fee charge structure clear and its charged Mr K the correct
amount of fees equal to the amendments that were made.
I can also see that under this same heading One Sure set out what happens if debit
balances arent paid promptly or as arranged. The Terms of business state if you fail to
settle a debit balance promptly, we will use any credit/debit card details that you have
previously authorised us to use in order to settle the balance. So, I cant see that One Sure
has done anything wrong by using the payment information it had for Mr K on file in order to
retrieve the balance that was owed.
The offer of a refund
Mr K spoke to One Sure a number of times in January and February 2020 to discuss the
policy cancellation, and during one of these calls One Sure offered to refund Mr K an amount
of £1,215.48. Ive looked at the call notes from this call and the note says, had to calculate
canc on original figures and will refund the difference. However, in a later note its implied
that Mr K was unhappy with this refund, as he believed more was owed, so the offer to
refund £1,215.48 was withdrawn.
Ive asked One Sure about this and it has set out what happened. One Sure says The AP
for the NCB had been applied and in order to assist the client and mutually resolve we
offered to stand the AP for the NCB which gave the refund of £1,215.48 Where we say
we had to calculate canc on original figures and will refund the difference this is not the
normal process as when a policy cancels it includes any AP applied during the life cycle andnormally cancels on the higher premium. The client decided to not accept this which is why it
was withdrawn when he didnt agree to it.
The scope of what happened here isnt something I can comment on in this decision. It looks
like One Sure made an offer to Mr K. But he wasnt satisfied with that offer and chose to
refer this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service as is his right. So, One Sure
withdrew the offer, as is its right in the circumstances. I wont be asking One Sure to do
any more in relation to this withdrawn offer.
Other Issues
Mr K has also said he couldve gotten a cheaper policy at the time and hes also complained
about a credit default marker on his record. I wont be commenting on the alternative
insurances in this decision as Mr K chose to go with this policy, so the other quotes he
received dont matter. Also, as One Sure isnt the business that charged the premium for this
policy, this was the underwriter, its not within the scope of this decision to comment on the
default marker on Mr Ks credit file.
Conclusion
In conclusion I dont think One Sure did anything wrong in this case. I believe that Mr K
simply misunderstood what he had to provide by a way of supporting the courier experience
discount. When it wasnt provided the underwriter amended the policy premium and One
Sure simply implemented this amendment. I think the supporting evidence from the DVLA
would also suggest that One Sure didnt do anything wrong by providing this information to
the underwriter. One Sure can only act based on the evidence it has, and Mr Ks DVLA
record shows he has an IN10 recorded against him.
As per the terms and conditions of the policy it was cancelled correctly and fairly, and One
Sure only took what was owed, using the methods allowed in its Terms of Business. It did
make Mr K an offer to resolve the issues raised, but it withdrew this offer, as is its right, when
Mr K indicated he remained unhappy with the amount being offered.
I appreciate Mr K may have outstanding issues with the underwriter of this policy, and also
with the finance provider. However, these issues will have to be addressed in separate
complaints to both of these entities if Mr K chooses to do so. I do however note that One
Sure has advised me that the underwriter has gone into liquidation.
One Sure has confirmed its received my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. 
Mr K has also replied and hes set out a number of issues hes unhappy with:
Mr K says he never had, and never said he had four years no claims bonus. Hes 
quoted a line from the provisional decision that states, no claims bonus being 
stepped back. He says again that he didnt misunderstand anything, he says he 
knows how no claims discount works. Mr K says, They are asking for no claims 
bonus I never gave them to begin with. Mr K says One Sure has blinded us with 
technicalities and lies. 
Mr K says hes provided us with other cheaper prices than what he ended up paying 
without declaring any no claims discount years from other providers from that time, 
so why would he have taken this one if it was going to be more expensive?
Mr K has also called into question the screen shots One Sure has provided. He says 
he wouldve always answered and spoken to One Sure as insurance and keeping mobile was important to him. Hes asked whether theres any record of the numerous 
times he called One Sure, only to be left on hold or cut off. Hes questioned why no 
recordings have been provided. He also says he only realised what was going on 
when he tried to pay for petrol and realised One Sure had taken £540 from his 
account, and not the £240 that was agreed.
Mr K has also questioned One Sures records of alleged mis-payments. He says he 
contacted his bank to tell them he was being overcharged, and the bank returned all 
the direct debits together.
Mr K says that One Sure confirmed that there was no IN10 on his licence and it was 
the underwriter who provided the information from the DVLA.
He says every time he called to try and sort this out, he was put on hold. He cant 
understand why One Sure were evasive, and why they admitted guilt and offered 
him a refund, which turned out to be incorrect. He says he never asked for a full 
refund. He says hes not a thief and he always pays his bills. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Mr K is saying. He says he understands what a no claims bonus is, and he 
saya that One Sure was looking for a no claims bonus he never had.
So, I just want to make this clear. Ive said in my provisional decision that I agree with Mr K. 
He quite clearly never said he had four years no claims bonus. But I also want to make it 
clear that One Sure didnt ask Mr K for his no claims bonus. One Sure asked Mr K for 
evidence of his four years courier experience in the form of a letter from his 
current/previous employer. 
I appreciate Mr K doesnt agree with this. But he did say he had four years courier 
experience, and a copy of the email request from One Sure to Mr K has been provided to us. 
And the email address that this request was sent to by One Sure matches Mr Ks email 
address. And because Mr K didnt provide what was requested, his premium was increased. 
This premium wasnt increased by One Sure, One Sure facilitated the premium increase at 
the request of the underwriter. So, One Sure didnt do anything wrong. It requested what the 
underwriter required, and when this wasnt provided, it increased the premium, as also 
requested by the underwriter. 
But when One Sure amended the direct debits and started to take an increased monthly 
payment, Mr K thought thered been an error. And, from the call notes Ive seen and read, I 
think these increases then led to a complete breakdown of communication between Mr K 
and One Sure. Mr K believed One Sure had made an error. But One Sure believed Mr K had 
a poor payment history.  
So, its not surprising there was an issue. And thats clear throughout the file. There are 
instances where there were arguments during calls, and there were times where one party 
couldnt get through to the other, and where calls were cut short or calls not answered. And 
to me this all originated from a misunderstanding, where Mr K misinterpreted what was 
required to continue at the premium that was initially agreed, and that was evidence of his 
four years courier experience. But that doesnt mean the payments werent due. Mr K continued to use the cover, so he 
had to pay for it. And even though I understand Mr Ks frustration and his reply to my 
provisional decision, I still dont think One Sure did anything wrong by amending the 
premium at the request of the underwriter. One Sure was only carrying out an instruction 
given by the policy underwriter.
Mr K has also questioned what One Sure said about the alleged IN10 on his licence. He 
says One Sure confirmed in a telephone call that it couldnt see anything on his licence. But 
weve been provided with a screen shot of Mr Ks driving record from the DVLA, with an IN10 
recorded on it. And it doesnt matter who provided this evidence. The fact is that its there, 
and if Mr K disputes it he will have to refer back to the courts. All One Sure did was ask Mr K 
to clarify why it wasnt initially disclosed, and then increase the premium at the request of the 
underwriter. So, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think One Sure has done 
anything wrong here. 
Finally, Mr K has questioned why One Sure admitted guilt and offered him a refund, which 
turned out to be incorrect. Ive looked at this again and at One Sures response. And during 
this call One Sure did offer Mr K a refund of premiums that it believed hed overpaid. 
But it would seem that after this interaction One Sure then realised it had made a mistake, 
albeit after Mr K said he wasnt satisfied with this offer. But its an error that wouldve 
impacted One Sure and One Sure only. I can see from the file that this refund wasnt due, 
and if One Sure had refunded an amount to Mr K it wouldve been in error and Mr K 
wouldve gained. But this didnt happen, so neither party has lost out and nothing further is 
required.
Conclusion
I appreciate why Mr K is very aggrieved by everything that happened here. And I know he 
will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant see that One Sure did anything wrong 
here, and I havent been provided with any new evidence that would change my mind on 
this. So, for the reasons set out above, and earlier in my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman