DRN-3586151
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited handled his claim made on 
his commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr As car was damaged by a flood and deemed to be beyond economical repair. Mr A 
made a claim on his policy. Haven initially refused the claim but, after Mr A complained, it 
wrote to Mr A saying it would accept it. Haven offered a cash settlement for the car. But Mr A 
didnt receive this letter. He paid for his car to be repaired, but this was unsuccessful. So he 
sold the car for scrap. Mr A wanted to be compensated for the impact of Havens actions. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Havens 
settlement offer of £10,070 for the car was fair and reasonable as it was more than we would 
recommend. And he thought Haven should deduct the policy excess and the amount Mr A 
received for the salvage, £1,250. But he also thought Haven should reimburse Haven for the 
cost of the unsuccessful repairs Mr A had paid for, with interest. This was because he 
thought Mr A wouldnt have incurred this cost if Haven hadnt refused his claim. 
Haven agreed to pay the cash settlement, less the policys excess and outstanding 
premiums. It agreed to deduct the salvage amount from this. But it didnt agree to reimburse 
Mr A for his attempted repairs. It said it wasnt responsible for Mr A not receiving its letter 
accepting the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its response to Mr As complaint that Haven had unfairly refused his claim, Haven agreed 
that it had made a mistake. It said it would accept the claim if Mr A contacted it. I can see 
that this letter was sent to the address on Mr As policy. And, from Havens file, I can see 
that it also left a voicemail for Mr A to contact it. 
Mr A said he didnt receive the letter, and I certainly dont doubt this. But I cant say that 
Haven made a mistake here as its not responsible for the postal service. And it did leave the 
voicemail message as well. But Mr A had already paid for repairs to his car. So Ive looked at 
what happened before Haven sent its letter to Mr A reversing its decision about his claim.
When a business makes a mistake, as Haven accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Haven agreed to pay Mr A a settlement for the total loss of his car. It offered him £10,070 
less the policy excess and outstanding premiums. The Investigator has explained this 
services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to 
whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Havens settlement offer was fair and reasonable, so Ive checked 
how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked for valuations for Mr As car in the 
motor trade guides we use. He looked for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and 
condition at the date of its loss. The average of the valuations he found was less than 
Havens offer. So I agree that it is fair and reasonable. 
I also think its fair and reasonable for Haven to deduct the policy excess from the settlement 
as this is always the first part of a claim to be paid. And I think it can fairly deduct the 
outstanding premiums as this is an annual policy and, as there has been a successful claim, 
it has been used. 
Mr A explained that he needed his car for his livelihood. And when Haven rejected his claim 
he couldnt afford to replace it. And so he tried to have his car repaired. The repair attempts 
were unsuccessful. But I think it was reasonable for Mr A to try and repair his car. This was 
due to Haven's initial error in refusing the claim. This decision was later reversed, but the 
repair invoices provided are dated before Haven's final response. 
And so I think the costs Mr A incurred were as a result of Haven's error. So, I think it would 
be fair for Haven to reimburse these costs. Mr A has been without his money for some time, 
so I think Haven should reasonably add interest to this amount from the date Mr A paid for 
the repairs to the date of settlement. 
Mr A then sold his car for salvage rather than attempt further repairs. The amount he 
received for the salvage was £1,250. Haven has agreed to accept this as a deduction for the 
salvage value it lost. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr A has told us that the loss of his car has had serious impacts on his health and well-
being. And I was sorry to hear about this. But I think the settlement of his claim and 
reimbursement of his costs provides sufficient compensation for this impact in his particular 
circumstances. I dont require Haven to pay any further compensation.
Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr A £10,070, less deductions for the policy excess, outstanding premiums and 
£1,250 for the salvage, in settlement of his claim for the loss of his car, as its already 
agreed to do. 
2. Reimburse Mr A for the repair costs he incurred, subject to the provision of reasonable 
invoices for these. Interest should be added to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If Haven considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman