DRN-3505833
The complaint
Mr C is seeking to recover approximately £25,000 from Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax (Halifax) that he lost as the result of a third-party scam. 
Halifax say they are not liable because he transferred the funds to another account in his 
own name, and they could not reasonably have intervened or done more to recoup the 
money from the receiving bank. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, Mr C has been the victim of a scam. Between August 
and September 2021 he sent six payments to a cryptocurrency account held in his own 
name totalling just under £25,000. 
Mr C decided to invest in cryptocurrency and found a broker through social media who was 
offering a specific investment. He researched this and found good reviews on a number of 
websites. The broker persuaded him to invest  starting small with a £250 payment so he 
could see how it worked. He was given access to a fake account which purported to show 
how his investment was growing. He was persuaded then to further invest. He was told he 
would need to have an account with a legitimate cryptocurrency platform so that he could 
send money to invest in a risk free trading account. The broker helped him set the account 
up over screen sharing software, but Mr C was aware of what was going on and would have 
provided his passport and other relevant information needed. 
The account continued to appear to show growth on his investment until a short time later 
when the broker contacted Mr C to tell him his investment was not doing well. Mr C agreed 
to send further funds to protect his investment after they became threatening  some of 
which was funded by credit card and a loan. He was then told the investment had improved, 
and so Mr C asked for his funds to be returned. He was told he would have to pay £10,000 
in fees to remove his funds, and it was at this point he became suspicious and contacted the 
cryptocurrency platform  who informed him he may have been the victim of a scam.
Mr C complained to Halifax  he was unhappy that they had failed to prevent the scam. He 
accepted he was contacted about one of the payments, but he thought they ought to have 
contacted him sooner and done more to prevent the scam from occurring. 
Halifax declined to refund Mr Cs losses because: 
The loss did not occur on Mr Cs Halifax account  he sent the funds to an account in 
his own name. This meant the Contingent Reimbursement Model code (CRM code) 
did not apply, and nor were they liable under other rules to refund the losses from his 
Cryptocurrency account; 
They had no obligation to recoup the money as it was sent on from another customer 
controlled account; and 
They did intervene on the third payment and warned Mr C specifically about 
cryptocurrency broker scams, but he went ahead with further payments anyway.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators reviewed what happened and didnt recommend Mr Cs complaint be upheld. 
This was because they agreed that the CRM was not applicable in this case; and agreed 
that whilst Halifax could have asked better probing questions of Mr C when the payments 
flagged as unusual and out of character for Mr Cs account, it ultimately would not likely have 
prevented the payments. Mr C wasnt happy with our investigators opinion. As no 
agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to start by saying that I do believe that Mr C was the victim of a cruel and callous 
fraud. I was so saddened to hear of what he was put through. I can tell from the evidence 
that we have that this has had a significant impact on Mr C. So, Id like to start by offering my 
sympathies for what he has been put through. 
My role here is to assess Halifaxs actions against what they should have done  and having 
done so, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Halifax liable for Mr Cs 
loss. So, having considered everything, I am unable to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr C, but I dont think I can fairly say that Halifax 
should reimburse him for the money that left her account and was later lost to the scammers. 
Ill explain why.
Whilst Halifax were signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model code (CRM) at the 
time of these transactions, it doesnt apply in this case. The code is designed for scam 
payments that are sent to another person from the account in question. But technically 
speaking in this case, Mr C sent the funds from his Halifax account to himself, before 
sending them on to another person. I say this because the funds were transferred to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency account, which Mr C had been aware had been set up and had 
access to, and the funds were sent onto the scammers from there. Whilst the scammers also 
had access  Mr C didnt lose access to the funds until they left his cryptocurrency wallet. 
So Ive considered these transactions under the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time for 
banks obligations relating to authorised push payment scams that are not caught by the 
CRM. 
There is no dispute that the payments were authorised payments, even though Mr C was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. He made the payments himself and under the relevant 
regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr C is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance. But I think Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual and out of character transactions 
or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial hard from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
Because Mr C authorised the transactions, Halifax had an obligation to follow his 
instructions. But there are some situations in which they should reasonably had a closer look 
at the circumstances surrounding the transfers  as Ive explained, I consider that as a 
matter of good practice Barclays should have been on the lookout of unusual and out of 
character transactions. 
So, Ive thought about whether the transfers Mr C made were out of character and unusual. 
To decide this, I have reviewed the typical pattern of Mr Cs account usage, by reviewing the 
account history in the months prior to the scam. This is often a finely balanced matter, and 
Halifax has a difficult balance to strike in how they configure their systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. 
On balance, I cannot say the first payment of £2,000 was so unusual or out of character that 
Halifax ought to have intervened at this point. I say this because the payment was going to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency platform, and the amount was not dissimilar to previous payments 
 he had made at least one payment in the past six months of a comparable value. So I think 
it is reasonable that this payment didnt flag as unusual or out of character, such that Halifax 
ought to have intervened here. 
I do think the second payment, which had a value of £3,000 should reasonably have flagged 
as unusual and out of character for the account. It was larger than any other individual 
payments from Mr Cs account in the months prior to the scam. It also took place only five 
days after the first payment, to the same payee, so the cumulative value of £5,000 in a 
relatively short period of time made it stand out against Mr Cs usual account activity. It also 
arguably follows the pattern of some frauds  two relatively large payments to a new payee 
over several days. So, I think from this payment onwards Halifax should have noticed that Mr 
C was at a higher risk of fraud or financial crime than normal. But this alone is not enough to 
say Halifax must refund Mr Cs losses from this payment  I need to think about what 
appropriate action should have taken place and whether this would have ultimately made a 
difference. 
Due to the unusual nature of the payment, the relevant law, regulations and good industry 
practice required Halifax to question Mr C about the transaction and the reasons for making 
it before they agreed to process it on his behalf. I think Halifax should have asked Mr S 
about the purpose and legitimacy of the payments. I would have expected such questioning 
to have asked Mr S things like who he was making the payment to, why he was making the 
payment to them, how he learned of the investment, what he was investing in, whether he 
was cold called, whether he had done any checks on the company, what documents he had 
been provided about the investment and what rate of return he had been promised.
We will never be totally sure what would have happened if Halifax had asked these sort of 
questions on the second payment, so I have to decide what I think was most likely to have 
happened if they had done so, based on the evidence we have, and on the balance of 
probabilities. Mr C was contacted on the third payment, so I have thought about what took 
place on that call.
On the call, Mr C said he was making the payment to invest in cryptocurrency and named 
the platform, and he had set the account up himself and no one else had access to it. The 
reality was the account was set up by the scammers with his input, they had utilised screen 
mirroring software to do his. They had access to he account as they knew the security 
details. He also intended to invest in a different cryptocurrency platform, paying via the 
legitimate platform. So I think it is fair to say he was not entirely transparent with Halifax. 
Nevertheless, Halifax still gave him a detailed warning that scammers pose as 
cryptocurrency brokers and often approach would be victims through social media  but Mr 
C maintained that he was making the payments himself and there was no third party involved. This was clearly not the case. But Halifax went into more detail still  they went 
through how cryptocurrency investments worked and explained the risks of losses when 
making such an investment. Mr C said he was aware of the risks but wanted to proceed with 
his payment. He was looking for better returns on his savings than he could get through 
regular banking. In reality  Mr C has told us that he thought he was getting a large return 
with zero risk of losses. 
Having considered this call, I see no reason to believe an earlier call would have gone any 
differently. Banks respond to the information they are given in scam prevention calls  and 
unfortunately Mr C was not truthful with Halifax when they spoke to him which prevented 
some of the common hallmarks of these type of scams  cryptocurrency investment scams  
being confirmed to Halifax. In spite of this, Halifax did a good job in warning Mr C about the 
risks of the specific scam type he was falling for  but this didnt appear to encourage Mr C 
to disclose the reality of his situation, nor prevent him from making the payments. Mr C didnt 
demonstrate any distress or hesitation in the call that should have caused Halifax concern 
either. I think Halifax could have gone further in their questioning, but given how this call 
went, I am not persuaded this would have made a difference. 
Having considered all of this, I am satisfied that Mr C was persuaded the company was 
genuine and I think it wouldve taken more than the bank making the type of enquiries 
Ive highlighted above to persuade him not to continue or alert him to the scam  so I 
dont think further intervention by Halifax would have prevented the loss, and so I do not 
think it would be fair to ask Halifax to refund his losses.
Ive also thought about whether anything else at this point ought to have alerted Halifax to 
the scam, but Im not persuaded it should have. The cryptocurrency platform the funds went 
to was genuine, and so there would have been no particular concerns about Mr C sending 
his funds there.  And there was no other information or additional checks Halifax could have 
carried out at that time that would have given it reasonable cause to believe Mr C was the 
victim of a scam. And so I dont think Halifax could have done more to uncover the scam in 
this particular case and I dont think it could have done more here to prevent the payments 
leaving Mr Cs account.
With regard to recovery of the funds, as the funds went to another account in Mr Cs name I 
would not expect them to attempt recovery. But for completeness, even if they had done so, 
there were no funds remaining in his cryptocurrency account by the time he was aware of he 
scam. 
I want to stress here that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr C is in but I dont 
think his loss was caused by any specific failing of Halifax, and so I cant fairly ask them to 
refund him. The fault, and loss, here lies with the scammers themselves. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and do not therefore require Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to do anything to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman