DRN-3107732
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Santander UK plc made entries against their names on fraud 
prevention databases after they made a mortgage application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R applied for a mortgage with Santander in 2018. As part of the application, 
Santander asked them for evidence of their income.
Mr and Mrs R say they gave Santander all the information it asked for, but it declined their 
application without saying why. They later found out it had recorded entries about them on 
two fraud prevention databases (Cifas and National Hunter), saying they had provided false 
information about their income and they had tried to take out a mortgage fraudulently.
Mr and Mrs R feel they have been treated very unfairly. They say they can prove they 
havent lied, and the markers on the databases have stopped them getting a mortgage or 
other credit.
Santander said it was right to have recorded the markers and it wouldnt remove them or 
give Mr and Mrs R any additional explanation. It also said lenders shouldnt decline any 
applications Mr and Mrs R made just because of the markers, without making further 
enquiries.
Our investigator found Santander had mixed up Mrs Rs employment details with her 
husbands, so she asked it to remove the markers it had recorded against Mrs R. But she 
didnt recommend it do the same for the markers against Mr R.
Santander accepted that and said it had removed the markers against Mrs Rs name. Mr and 
Mrs R didnt think that was enough. They asked for a review and pointed to the payslips, 
account statements and confirmation of income from Her Majestys Revenue & Customs 
(HMRC) they had provided to show what Mr R was earning. They couldnt understand what 
evidence Santander could have to justify what it had done. They also later checked with 
Cifas and National Hunter and said Santander hadnt removed the markers it had recorded 
against Mrs R.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I said in my provisional findings:
Santander recorded the markers on the basis that Mr and Mrs R provided false information 
about their income. In Mrs Rs case, that was because Mr Rs employment and income 
details were mixed up with hers. Santander appears to have accepted that was a mistake 
and says it has removed the markers against Mrs R. I think thats reasonable.
Mr and Mrs R are concerned the markers about Mrs R are in fact still in place, and Ive 
looked carefully at the latest reports they have provided. The National Hunter report shows 
clear against Mrs Rs name, and the Cifas report doesnt appear to show any live markers. 
Mr and Mrs R can ask the databases to confirm the position. In any case, I propose to 
require Santander to make sure that no fraud markers remain against Mrs Rs name in 
respect of this mortgage application.
I turn now to the markers against Mr R. I think Santander should remove those as well. Im 
not satisfied, on the evidence Ive seen, that it had good enough reason to record them. 
Lenders should only record this type of marker on fraud prevention databases where they 
have very good grounds to do so. False income is the reason Santander gave for recording 
the markers against Mr R, as reflected on the reports Mr R has obtained from Cifas and 
National Hunter.
Mr and Mrs R made their mortgage application in September 2018, and Ive seen a copy of 
it. On it, Mr R said he had been in his then current job since July 2018. He also set out his 
annual salary and net monthly income. When asked, he sent Santander a payslip.
Santander says it tried to confirm Mr Rs income independently, but this couldnt be verified. 
Im satisfied that it did make independent enquiries, and doing so wasnt unreasonable. 
However, its not clear what Santander asked or what it was about Mr Rs income that 
couldnt be verified.
Mr R had only started his job less than three months before making the mortgage 
application. So his income for the 2018/19 tax year, the one preceding it, and for that 
calendar year, wouldnt have reflected the annual income he declared on his application. He 
had only just begun earning that amount, and he had told Santander that.
Santander told our investigator during her investigation that Mr R had told it he had been in 
his role for 11 months. But it hasnt provided any persuasive evidence to back that up, and 
thats not whats on the mortgage application. And it didnt make any further enquiries of Mr 
R or, it appears, his employer, about its concerns. Instead, it simply went ahead and 
recorded markers on the databases.
Mr R has sent us a copy of his contract of employment, confirming his start date of early July 
2018 and his role. He has also provided a printout from HMRC showing his taxable pay for 
July to December 2018. The amount is roughly half the annual income he declared on his 
mortgage application  as would be expected for half of the year. He has provided monthly 
payslips for the same period, which reflect the same amounts  including the correct 
deductions for National Insurance and income tax  which are on the document from HMRC. 
He has also provided current account statements showing corresponding payments from his 
employer each month.
I would expect to see robust evidence in order for Santander to have recorded these types of 
markers on fraud prevention databases. Ive noted everything Santander has said about Mr 
Rs income and employment, but I dont find that it had the clear, rigorous and relevant 
evidence of dishonesty and fraud which it needed to record the markers. Suspicions arent 
good enough, and it was open to Santander to have asked more questions and made more 
enquiries if it had concerns  before putting the markers in place.
In all the circumstances, I dont consider that Santander has shown it had reasonable 
grounds to believe Mr R committed or attempted fraud. It follows that I find it should remove 
all markers it has put on fraud prevention databases in connection with this mortgage 
application.
I also consider Mr and Mrs R should fairly receive some compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience they have been caused as a result of the markers. I propose that Santander 
pay them £300 for that. Ive noted what Mr and Mrs R have said about having been unable 
to get finance because of the markers. Importantly, though, the databases are clear with their members that they cant automatically reject an application just because of a marker 
against an applicants name. Lenders must make their own enquiries. So I think it would be 
difficult for me fairly to conclude that Santander is responsible if Mr and Mrs R have been 
declined for credit.
Finally, I should point out that Santander didnt have to give Mr and Mrs R reasons why it 
declined their mortgage application  but it would be unusual for a lender to approve an 
application if it had concerns about the information it had been given in connection with that 
application.
I invited Mr and Mrs R and Santander to provide any final submissions they wanted to make 
before I issue my final decision.
Mr and Mrs R accepted my provisional decision, but Santander did not. It repeated some of 
its earlier arguments and said it still had concerns about Mr Rs employment.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision, for the same reasons. Santander hadnt provided any new evidence or arguments 
which persuade me the marker should remain in place against Mr Rs name. As I said in my 
provisional findings, I would expect to see clear, rigorous and relevant evidence of 
dishonesty and fraud  and Santander hasnt shown it had that here.  
Putting things right
For these reasons, Santander UK plc should remove all markers it has recorded against Mr 
and Mrs R in connection with this mortgage application from fraud prevention databases. It 
should also pay Mr and Mrs R £300 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK plc to put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman