DRN-3908471
The complaint
Mr A complains about restrictions applied to his current account by Starling Bank Limited. 
What happened
Mr A received a large payment into his account on 22 October 2022. On the same date, Mr 
A tried to make a payment to his daughter but it was picked up for further checks by Starling 
Bank. 
Mr A spoke with Starling Bank and it advised his account had been restricted while it looked 
into the transactions. Starling Bank asked questions about the payment Mr A received and 
the payment he tried to make. Mr A explained the funds had come from the sale of jewellery 
and that he was using them to repay a loan to his daughter. 
Starling Bank advised it would conduct a review of Mr As account but couldnt give a 
specific timescale for the removal of the block. Account restrictions were removed on 25 
October 2022 and Mr A was able to use his account again. Starling Banks account review 
was completed and signed off a short time later. 
Mr A complained and Starling Bank sent him a final response on 27 October 2022. Starling 
Bank said it had a genuine reason for blocking Mr As account and that it had acted in line 
with the terms and conditions. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr As complaint. They thought Starling Bank had 
dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr A asked to appeal, 
so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As explained that the account block and restrictions caused significant inconvenience as 
he needed to pay for living expenses. I can understand why Mr A is upset that the payment 
to his daughter wasnt made when initially requested. And I understand the payments both in 
and out were entirely genuine. It was clearly a shock to Mr A when his account was 
restricted and I dont doubt how distressing the experience was. But Starling Bank is obliged 
to protect customers accounts and has security systems in place. 
In this case, Starling Banks fraud prevention systems picked up both the payment Mr A 
received and the transfer he tried to make for further investigation. Starling Bank hasnt 
given a specific reason. But looking at the transactions, they appear to be outside the regular 
activity Ive seen on Mr As account. And Im satisfied the payments were reasonably 
highlighted for further checks by Starling Bank. In addition, Starling Banks terms and 
conditions say it can block a payment and restrict an account if it has genuine concerns 
about fraud. 
So whilst I understand the account restrictions and transaction block did have a significant 
impact on Mr A, I have to balance that against Starling Banks obligation to protect his 
account. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr A but I havent been persuaded that Starling Bank 
acted unfairly. Im satisfied its systems picked up Mr As account for security checks and that 
the account restrictions were fairly applied in line with the terms and conditions. 
Ive looked at the time Starling Bank took to complete its review and remove the account 
restrictions to see whether there were avoidable delays. But the account restriction was put 
in place on 22 October 2022, a Saturday, and removed on 25 October 2022, a Tuesday. In 
my view, it was a reasonable period of time for Starling Bank to investigate the transactions 
in question and review Mr As account. I havent been persuaded that Starling Bank took too 
long or unreasonably delayed the removal of the account blocks. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr A as I can see how strongly he feels about this matter. But 
Im satisfied Starling Bank reasonably applied account restrictions and removed them once it 
had obtained information about the payments in question from Mr A. As Im satisfied Starling 
Bank dealt with Mr As complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman