DRN-3536006
The complaint
Mr C and Mr D complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined their 
claim for loss of rent following a claim on their block home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C and Mr D are joint leaseholders of a flat in a block, which they rent out to tenants. The 
freehold is owned by a management company, of which they are shareholders. There is a 
home insurance policy for the whole block that is in the name of the management company 
and for which Mr C and Mr D are beneficiaries. 
They made a claim following an escape of water at the flat. RSA accepted the claim however 
eventually declined the part of the claim for loss of rent. It said the policy didnt cover for loss 
of rent for a tenant who is sub-letting the property from the leaseholder. It said as the 
management company is the policyholder, it would therefore only apply where the rent was 
due to be received by them and not by Mr C and Mr D. 
Mr C and Mr D didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. RSA didnt respond in the 
required timescale so they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said as Mr C and Mr D were beneficiaries of the policy it wasnt fair for RSA to limit the loss 
of rent term to just the policyholder. So she thought RSA should consider their claim for loss 
of rent.
Mr C and Mr D accepted our investigators outcome. However RSA didnt and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for loss of rent. It states:
We will pay the:
(i) Rent (including ground rent) You should have received but have lost in respect of such 
flats.
You is defined in the policy as Those named in Your Schedule as the Insured. As the 
management company is listed on the policy schedule, RSA has said that it would only apply 
to rent that the management company would be due to receive, such as ground rent from 
the leaseholders.
Ive considered this and I dont think its fair for RSA to decline the claim for loss of rent on 
this basis. Ill explain why.
While the policy is in the name of the management company, it covers insured perils that 
arise in the flats owned by the leaseholders. Therefore the leaseholders are beneficiaries. 
And they are indemnified directly for problems that arise. And here RSA has accepted Mr C 
and Mr Ds claim for the escape of water.
The policy doesnt list any exclusions to the loss of rent term, nor does it specify that this 
wouldnt apply to tenants of leaseholders. And I think when read in the context of the rest of 
the policy  that does provide cover for leaseholders  it isnt clear that this would only apply 
to rent due to the management company rather than individual leaseholders. In fact the 
policy term states including ground rent rather than indicating that it is limited to just this. So 
in the circumstances, I dont think its clear from the policy that the loss of rent term would 
only apply to payments made to the managing agent. I therefore dont think it fair for RSA to 
decline Mr C and Mr Ds claim based on this.
For this reason, I agree with our investigator that RSA should now consider Mr C and Mr Ds 
claim for loss of rent in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. And if it settles 
the claim, it should pay 8% interest on the amount from the date of the loss to the date 
settlement is paid to make up for the time theyve been without the money. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr C and Mr Ds complaint and direct Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Consider Mr C and Mr Ds claim for loss of rent inline with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
Should it agree to settle the claim, it should pay Mr C and Mr D 8% interest on the 
amount from the date of the loss until settlement is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman