DRN-1950701
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Santander UK Plc closed his accounts without giving any notice or 
providing an explanation as to why.
 
What happened
Mr P has two sole accounts with Santander and two joint accounts. This decision deals with 
Mr Ps sole accounts only  his joint accounts will be addressed in a different decision. 
Both of Mr Ps sole accounts were closed in April 2019. Santander closed the accounts with 
immediate effect, meaning no prior notice was sent to Mr P. Instead Santander sent a letter 
for each of the accounts, both dated 15 April 2019. These letters explained that the accounts 
had been closed and enclosed with the letters was a cheque for the balance of the accounts. 
Mr P has explained hes been a customer of Santander for many years and always 
maintained his accounts properly. He says the closure of his accounts has taken its toll 
mentally and financially and hes lost his status as a good standing individual in society. 
Santander says it closed the accounts in line with the terms and conditions and doesnt have 
to provide a reason for this. 
Mr P referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained that Santander was entitled to close Mr Ps accounts in line with the terms and 
conditions and it isnt required to provide an explanation for this. 
Mr P disagreed. He said that although Santander has the option to cease business with him, 
it should give adequate notice. He says hes not breached any of the conditions that warrant 
immediate closure and nor have Santander ever informed him that he has. He doesnt feel 
the stress, anxiety and damage to his reputation has been taken into account. As a result, he 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Account closure 
Santander has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity
taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts being closed.  If 
Santander didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
Having reviewed whats happened, Im satisfied Santander was entitled to close
Mr Ps account and did so in in line with the account terms and relevant regulations. 
Santander has the discretion to offer accounts to who it wishes, just as Mr P can choose 
who to bank with.
Under the terms of the account, Santander can close an account immediately in certain 
circumstances. Mr P noted in his response to our investigators opinion that, although 
Santander do have the option to cease business with them, it should give adequate notice. 
Mr P explained hes not done anything to breach any of the terms that allow for immediate 
closure. He pointed out hes been a loyal customer for many years and has always 
maintained his accounts properly. I appreciate that may well be the case, but Santander has 
legal and regulatory obligations to adhere to. And, having looked at the information it relied 
on to close the accounts, I dont think it acted unreasonably or made an error in closing the 
accounts immediately. 
In any event, I note Mr P wasnt using his accounts for day to day living and was just moving 
money between the two each month. So, I dont think the lack of notice had a material 
impact. 
So, whilst I appreciate this caused Mr P a great deal of distress, I cant say Santander has 
treated him unfairly, or made an error in closing his accounts. It therefore follows that I wont 
be asking it to pay any compensation for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020. 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman