DRN-3615199
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) didnt fairly settle their claim 
for stolen electric bikes under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim on their policy when two electric bikes were stolen from their 
property. HDI validated the claim and agreed it was liable to settle the claim under the terms 
of the policy.
The two bikes were specified on the policy as high value items - £2,000 and £1,800. HDI 
settled the claim by providing a cash settlement of £3,800 for these items, which it said was 
its liability under the policy.
Mr and Mrs P thought this was unfair, as a recent surge in bike prices, meant they wouldnt 
be able to replace their bikes for similar ones for the settlement provided. Mr and Mrs P said 
the policy stated that their contents would be insured on a present day replacement value. 
So, Mr and Mrs P want HDI to either replace their bikes or provide a cash settlement that will 
allow themselves to replace the bikes to a similar specification. They also want to be 
compensated for their distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought HDI had settled the claim 
in line with the terms of the policy, so thought the settlement was fair. Mr and Mrs P 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 27 June 2022. I said:
I have reviewed what the reasons were that Mr and Mrs P were unsatisfied with the 
settlement they received. They said I know the bikes listings were below their present 
replacement value. However, because of the present inflation we find ourselves in, and the 
amount of time since the claim was made the prices have risen steeply. The first sentence of 
the cover section [within the policy document] I sent you (ABOUT YOUR COVER) says 
contents will be replaced as new, and also the second paragraph says cover also includes 
items up to a total of £18,800. I thought it reasonable that bikes of similar specification would 
be covered.
Ive reviewed the statement of insurance that Mr and Mrs P has highlighted to understand 
what it says about Mr and Mrs Ps cover. It sets out the Standard Contents Cover (section 
1).  It states:
Insured value (total value of your entire contents) up to £75,000
This provides cover for the replacement of contents as new (see your policy leaflet for 
exceptions) from the specific perils within the home based upon the present-day 
replacement value of all your contents.
This includes valuables and personal belongings up to a total of £18,800 which is inclusive 
of any specified items below.
A single article limit of £1,500 applies for valuables and personal belongings other than the 
items listed below.
Please note:
The insured value of your contents needs to cover the entire replacement value of all your
contents. If the insured value shown above represents less than 100% of the full 
replacement cost of the contents of your home, we will reduce the amount claimed in 
proportion to this underinsurance. For example, if the insured value of your contents 
represents 75% of the amount needed to replace all the content, we will only pay 75% of 
your claim.
EBIKE £2,000.00
EBIKE £1,800.00.
I understand why HDI and Mr and Mrs P have a different view of what is covered under this 
claim. I find the stated terms in the statement of insurance ambiguous. HDI has set out that it 
thinks its liable for the itemised values £2,000 and £1,800, whereas, Mr and Mrs P thinks 
they are insured for the present-day replacement value.
As I think the terms are ambiguous, Im going to uphold this complaint. If HDI intended its 
policy to work as it has settled this case, then I think it has a responsibility to make its policy 
documents clearer and easier to understand for its customers. I think Mr and Mrs P had 
reasonable expectations their settlement would be based on present day values.
I can see Mr and Mrs P provided valuations for their bikes based upon the price they paid for 
them. They have shared the receipts for these purchases. I think its reasonable for them to 
think this was a fair indication of what the value of these items were worth at the time they 
took out their insurance policy. However, the policy states the policy provides cover for the 
replacement of contents as new (see your policy leaflet for exceptions) from the specific 
perils within the home based upon the present-day replacement value of all your contents.
I cant see any exceptions that apply to this claim. The purpose of an insurance policy is to 
indemnify for the policyholder for the loss theyve experienced. I think the policy sets the 
expectation that the bikes will be replaced with new bikes (of a similar brand / specification) 
and should HDI decide to pay a cash settlement instead of replacement, it should be based 
on present-day values in order to indemnify them for the loss they have suffered.
Mr and Mrs P provided a detailed and well-articulated explanation of their complaint that I 
find persuasive. I think if the policy was well defined, so that Mr and Mrs P knew they would 
only be covered for the values stated in the policy, I think they wouldve done more to check 
that the valuations for their bikes remained up to date. However, as the policy set out they 
were covered for present day values, they wouldnt have felt this was necessary.
Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend for HDI to replace the stolen bikes with 
new bikes of matching brand and specification or alternatively provide a cash settlement that 
allows Mr and Mrs P to purchase their own equivalent replacements. I think this unfair 
settlement will have caused some distress and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs P, as they 
have been without replacement bikes for a significant period which will have impacted on 
their ability to exercise. They have also spent more of their time than would be expected 
following a theft claim. Therefore, I intend for HDI to pay £200 in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.Responses to my provisional decision
HDI accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything more to add.
Mr and Mrs P didnt specifically state whether they accepted my provisional decision. 
However, they clarified they would prefer to take a cash settlement for the stolen bikes as 
there is a long lead time for replacing the bike with the same one in the market. Mr and Mrs 
P have said the cash settlement should be £6,400 for the replacement cost based on 
information they have been provided (in addition to the £200 compensation).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P are keen to get a replacement for their bikes as soon as they can, 
but the policy sets out HDIs responsibility is to replace the items [stolen] as new or to pay 
the cost of replacing the item as new.
The policy further clarifies the pay the cost option, by stating 
- where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree to 
pay a cash settlement, then payment will not exceed the discounted replacement price we 
would normally pay
- where we cannot repair or replace the item as new through our preferred suppliers we will 
pay the full replacement cost of the item with no discount applied.
Therefore, its important that HDI has these options when settling the claim. HDI need to be 
given the opportunity to supply the replacement bikes through its supplier network. If it can 
do this, it should also offer Mr and Mrs P a cash settlement at the discounted replacement 
price it would pay (to its preferred supplier). However, if HDI cant provide the replacement 
bikes, then it should offer a fair cash settlement based upon full market rates. This is HDIs 
obligations under the policy.
However, it should be noted that if HDI cant provide the bikes in a reasonable timeframe 
and Mr and Mrs P can show they can purchase equivalent bikes in a significantly reduced 
timeframe, then I would expect HDI to pay the full market price.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I intend for HDI Global Specialty SE to:
Replace the stolen bikes with new bikes of matching brand and specification or 
alternatively provide a cash settlement that allows Mr and Mrs P to purchase their 
own equivalent replacement.
Pay £200* compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
* HDI Global Specialty SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it that Mr and Mrs P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 Pete Averill
Ombudsman