DRN-4413453
The complaint
Miss W complains about the service she received from One Insurance Limited in relation to 
a claim under her motor insurance policy.
One Insurance is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of its agents. As One Insurance has accepted it is accountable for the 
actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to One Insurance includes the actions of 
the agents. 
What happened
In early 2023, Miss W contacted One Insurance to notify it that her car had been damaged in 
a car park. She said the damage was around the passengers side wheel arch and there was 
also damage to the drivers side door which had happened on other occasions in the same 
car park. 
Miss W says she couldnt afford to pay the £400 policy excess at the time, so she decided to 
wait a few months before proceeding with her claim. After Miss W paid the excess, One 
Insurance arranged for Miss Ws car to be taken to a garage and she was provided with a 
hire car. However, she was told by the garage that only the main damage to the wheel arch 
would be repaired. If she wanted to claim for the other damage, shed need to pay £400 for 
each dent.
Miss W was unhappy that this hadnt been made clear to her prior to her going ahead with 
the claim. She asked One Insurance to return her car and the excess she had paid. One 
Insurance told her that if her car was returned, shed be liable for costs. 
Miss W decided to go ahead with the main repairs and raised a formal complaint with One 
Insurance.
One Insurance said that in Miss Ws initial call, the agent didnt mention that there would be 
a separate excess for damage as a result of another incident because it wasnt highlighted 
that she was claiming for any pre-existing damage.
Miss W remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator 
thought Miss Ws complaint should be upheld and recommended One Insurance pay Miss W 
£100 to compensate her for distress and inconvenience.
One Insurance disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said it appreciated Miss W felt 
the agent could have better explained that pre-existing damage would not be covered, but 
she was provided with full information on repairs to be made before booking them in and 
paying the excess. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require insurers to provide reasonable guidance to help a 
policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress.
When Miss W first phoned One Insurance to notify it of her loss in January 2023, she said 
shed noticed a dent in the wheel arch which had happened when her car was parked in a 
car park while she was at work. She also said that there was damage where it looked like 
people had caught her door on the drivers side on separate occasions. She thought if she 
got the car repaired, her door could also be done.
The agent told Miss W she would have to pay her excess of £400 if she decided to go ahead 
with the claim. She didnt mention that there would be separate excesses to pay if Miss W 
wanted the damage to her door to be repaired.
Miss W called One Insurance in May 2023 to say that she wanted to go ahead with her 
claim. Near the beginning of the call, the agent asked when the accident happened. Miss W 
said the biggest dent was in January, but damage had been done gradually. It was done in a 
car park. There were dents to her car where people had hit it with doors and there was lots 
of damage to it. The car was on lease, and she needed to get it repaired.
Later in the call, Miss W was told the excess would be payable on booking of repairs. Shed 
be sent a link to questions and a request for images of the damage, and she could pay the 
excess when the link came through. 
One Insurance says Miss W was provided with full information on repairs to be made before 
booking them in. However, I havent seen evidence to support this. Miss W says she was 
advised that she would have to pay further excesses if she wanted the minor dents to be 
removed, about a week after the car was taken from her.
Having listened to the phone calls, I dont think One Insurance provided Miss W with clear 
information about what would be covered under her claim. I think Miss W made it clear that 
she wanted the minor dents to be repaired alongside the main damage. 
The invoice from One Insurances approved garage was around £1,000. So, I think its likely 
that Miss W would still have gone ahead with her claim for the main damage if One 
Insurance had told her the minor dents werent covered. However, it was frustrating for   
Miss W to find out later that they werent. And I think it was particularly upsetting for her to 
find that shed be liable for costs if she wanted her car returned without the repairs going 
ahead. So, I think £100 would reasonably recognise the impact One Insurances poor 
communication has had on Miss W. 
Putting things right
One Insurance should pay Miss W £100 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ws complaint and direct One Insurance 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman