DRN-2020797
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make from his 
account.
What happened
Mr A received a message from TSB on the morning of 2 November 2019 to ask if he had 
made a number of payments. He contacted it at about 9:30am to say he hadnt and disputed 
the cash withdrawals and one card payment all made with his debit card and starting the 
previous day. There had also been transfers made from his savings account to his current 
account he didnt make which had allowed some of the withdrawals. The total value of the 
payments from his current account he disputed was £1,006.08. He told TSB that he had the 
card in his possession and hadnt told anyone the PIN.
TSB said it wouldnt be refunding this money. There was no way identified in which someone 
could have taken and then replaced his card. Or of how that person could have discovered 
the PIN. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he agreed that 
there was no explanation of how these payments could have been made without Mr A 
authorising them. One of the withdrawals was for £500 and made in a branch. TSB had said 
it wouldnt provide Mr A with CCTV. But even if available this wouldnt necessarily have 
resolved whether any person other than Mr A using the card was acting with his authority or 
not. The account transfers were made at a cashpoint. There was no clear point when 
someone could have seen Mr A entering his PIN as the last genuine use of the card was a 
few days earlier. And even if someone had been able to take his card it would be very risky 
to return it to him. Our investigator noted that the TSB payment app was showing a different 
card number for the payments. But hed seen clear evidence that the disputed payments 
were made using the card Mr A had in his possession. TSB couldnt help further with this as 
his account had been closed and it thought it might be a further card number that had been 
issued to Mr A or a glitch in the app.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that this loss had a big impact on him. He remained unhappy at 
not being able to view CCTV and that the wrong card number was showing on the app. Hed 
made a further fraud claim which TSB had settled. It had accepted that the replacement card 
and PIN it sent out hadnt got to him and that over £600 of payments made in a similar way 
and including account transfers had been refunded to him. Hed clearly been the victim of 
fraud and he was unhappy that the burden seemed to be on him to show this for the earlier 
payments.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 June 2020. I set out below what I 
said.
further evidence
Id noted during my review of the TSB case file that it said it had sent out a re-advice of PIN 
to Mr A on 27 October 2019. It said that this request was made in a telephone call and that it 
had identified the person making that call as Mr A and asked security questions. But it said 
that it no longer had a copy of the call recording. I thought that this was material and I asked 
Mr A for some further information about this and what happened through our investigator. 
Mr A said that he didnt call TSB on that day and as he had used the same PIN for a number 
of years wouldnt have needed to. He said that he didnt receive a reminder and so had 
remembered the PIN when he last used the card for a genuine payment before the disputed 
ones. As a result, there was no PIN advice for him to dispose of and no need to write down 
the PIN. 
On 1 November 2019 he said that he was at work in the afternoon to about 18:00. He went 
home on his own and arrived home at about 19:00. He doesnt recall buying anything on the 
way and he stayed home that evening alone watching television. He lived on his own and 
there was no one staying with him. He said that his letter box is based within the communal 
part of the flats and is opened with a key. He had never experienced any issues of post 
going missing. He again reiterated to me that he had been the victim of fraud.
In light of this further information I issued a provisional decision on his complaint so I could 
explain what I thought about this PIN advice. This hadnt changed the outcome, but I gave 
both Mr A and TSB the opportunity to make any further comments.
what Im going to consider
I needed to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if these payments 
werent authorised Mr A wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I said I would be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for 
these payments?
Did Mr A either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card?
I was satisfied from the available evidence that the payments and withdrawals were 
authenticated when the chip on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered. 
Weve not seen evidence of it being possible to clone the chip on a card for general use.
I knew Mr A is unhappy with the inconsistent information showing on the app. But Id seen 
the direct authorisation logs and I was satisfied that this shows which card was used. There 
is no evidence of any card with this other number having been issued at the time of these 
disputed payments. 
The issue is whether he consented to the payments. Im looking at what is most likely. If he 
didnt consent to the payments, then Id need to think about ways in which a third party was 
able to obtain his details. 
how his PIN might have been obtained.Mr A says he didnt make the call to request a new PIN. If he didnt then this would mean 
that the level of breach of his personal information was more significant. Id listened to 
genuine calls Mr A has made to TSB about his complaint. And he has routinely been asked 
security questions and I thought that just as likely happened during the call for a re-advice of 
PIN - even though I couldnt listen to it now. And if Mr A didnt make the call the question 
then is how someone was also able to intercept the PIN advice. As he says his mailbox is 
locked and theres no-one living with him. And a third party wouldnt know exactly when a 
further PIN advice would be delivered.
If he did make this call, which is TSBs position, then it might suggest he couldnt remember 
the PIN and had written it down or kept the PIN advice with the card. Thats why Id put 
questions about that to him. But Mr A is insistent this wasnt the position.
how his card might have been obtained and then replaced
The real difficulty I had is finding a way in which a third party  whether known to Mr A or not 
- could have taken and then replaced his card without him realising. The first withdrawal for 
£500 was made in a branch. Because it was made over the counter TSB cant now give the 
exact time of the withdrawal. But I noted that the branch in question closes at 16:00. Further 
cashpoint withdrawals and the purchase of fast food with the card then took place between 
17:32 and 18:40. There was the transfer of money using a cashpoint from his savings to 
current account and then the withdrawals resumed at 23:43 with later unsuccessful attempts 
to 00:20 the next morning.
Mr A has explained his movements that day. Its not impossible that someone was able to 
take his card from his wallet in his office without him knowing. He said in a call with TSB that 
the branch used for the withdrawal wasnt that far from his office. But that person would have 
needed somehow to know the PIN. Having said that I might have accepted it as just possible 
that the person could also replace the card in his wallet without him knowing before he left 
work. But as Id set out thats not a possibility here because Mr A was on the way home by 
18:00 and wasnt with anyone else. He says he was at home when more transactions were 
being done. And the next morning when he was contacted by TSB, he had the card. Mr A 
says he lived on his own and there was no opportunity for a third party to replace his card.
my assessment
Mr A is insistent hes been the victim of fraud. And he says that his further claim helps to 
establish this. I wasnt looking into the circumstances of the further claim of fraud in this 
complaint. So, I didnt need to make any findings about whether I thought that was fraud or 
not as its been settled by TSB. But there are a few things that I could draw from it. TSB 
must have accepted that a new card and PIN sent to Mr A were intercepted and used by 
someone else. The pattern of that usage was very similar to that in this complaint. But to link 
them Id need to think the person involved in making these payments had carried out a very 
similar fraud before. Id not got any clear explanation of how that could be as I set out above. 
So, this information didnt really assist in explaining how the payments disputed in this 
complaint were made
I said I wasnt persuaded that the most likely explanation is that these payments werent 
consented to and so authorised. Thats because Id ruled out scenarios in which they 
werent. Even if I were to accept that Mr As PIN was compromised, I couldnt see how his 
card was taken from him and replaced given all the background information about his 
movements and circumstances hes provided. So, I said my provisional finding is that I 
wouldnt be requiring TSB to do anything further.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB didnt make any comments. 
Mr A told our investigator he had nothing else to add. He said that there were a lot of grey 
areas and that the onus seemed to be on him to prove something he was unable to and that 
Ive favoured TSB. 
Ive been looking at what is most likely here and Ive balanced all the information and 
evidence. Ive considered the possible scenarios and what both TSB and Mr A have said 
about things. So, it isnt the case that Im relying only on Mr A to prove that he shouldnt be 
responsible for the payments. But I did in my provisional decision explain how Id reached 
my conclusions and I asked for any more comments or evidence. Im afraid I havent 
received anything further to give me reason to depart from those findings.
I appreciate Mr A will remain disappointed by this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman