DRN-3577510
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that the critical illness cover policy sold to her by National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)wasnt suitable. She has said that she thought the policy 
provided life cover and has been given incorrect information about it.
What happened
Mrs M took out a standalone critical illness cover policy in May 1996. It provided £36,000 of 
cover and NatWest say Mrs M took this out having recently cancelled another policy due to 
the cost. 
Mrs M says that she was led to believe that the policy provided life cover and that is why she 
maintained the monthly premium for so long. She says that she found out following some 
contradictory letters in 2020 from the company that administer the policy, that it in fact only 
provided critical illness cover. She complained following this, stating that she wouldnt have 
continued with the policy if this had been made clear. 
NatWest responded to say that they didnt think the advice given was unsuitable. They said 
they had taken into account Mrs Ms full circumstances at the time. Mrs M then brought the 
complaint to our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator looked into it and she concluded that the recommendation was suitable. 
She felt that Mrs M had a shortfall in critical illness cover and that the policy documentation 
provided at the time made clear what cover was provided. 
Mrs M didnt agree, she said that it hadnt been made clear to her what the policy covered 
her for. She also feels that she hasnt been informed correctly regarding what would qualify 
as a critical illness. As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to issue 
a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I think its important to make clear at the beginning that this complaint is against NatWest in 
regard to the advice they gave in 1996. I understand that Mrs M has complained separately 
about incorrect information she has been given by the business that are responsible for 
administering the policy. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs M feels that she was mis-sold a critical illness cover 
policy when she believed she had life cover and that it wasnt made clear what she could 
claim for under this policy. 
From the advisors interview notes from the point of sale, Mrs M was recorded as wanting a 
policy to replace a recently cancelled critical illness cover policy.  A standalone policy that 
gave £36,000 of cover for a monthly premium of approximately £45 was recommended. The 
policy would be reviewable after ten years. Mrs M was recorded as saying that she would 
have retired by that time and no longer need the policy. I cant see that Mrs M had any cover 
elsewhere and so, there was clearly a shortfall in her protection. 
Mrs M has said that she wasnt made aware that the policy didnt include life cover or what 
she could claim for as a critical illness. However, I have been provided with a copy of the 
illustration that will have been given to Mrs M which states that the policy provided 
standalone serious illness cover. It also states that life cover and combined serious illness 
benefit has not been included. 
I also have a copy of the Advice Process Form, which Mrs M signed to confirm that she had 
received and had explained the Key Features Document, Illustration and guide to serious 
illness cover.  I cant therefore say that Mrs M didnt receive from NatWest during the sale, 
clear information as to what the policy covered her for.
In summary, I am only reviewing what happened during the sale of this policy. I believe there 
was a shortfall in cover and that in such a circumstance, Mrs M could have claimed under 
the policy and her business may have been able to continue in her absence. I am also 
satisfied that NatWest did enough during the sale to make Mrs M aware what the policy was 
to cover her for. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above, is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman