DRN-2459570
The complaint
Mr M complains Scottish Widows Limited didnt send him review letters from 2013 onwards. 
His mortgage endowment policy matured in September 2018 with a shortfall and he was 
only notified of the error in not being sent reviews, in July 2018. 
What happened
I understand Mr M was relying on his endowment policy to repay his mortgage. Between 
2000 and 2013 Mr M was sent review letters illustrating what his policy was projected to 
achieve on maturity. The first letter sent was amber with all other letters red. Amber 
reviews warn of a significant risk of a shortfall (they project the policy meeting or exceeding 
the target amount at the highest rate of growth only) and red reviews warn of a high risk of a 
shortfall  that is, a shortfall against all rates of growth. 
In July 2018, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr M to apologise for not sending out annual reviews 
for some time. It also provided an up to date value of the policy. Mr M complained as he was 
only notified of this a matter of months before the policy matured. And it did so with a 
shortfall of over £6,000 against the target amount of £28,000. Mr M believes Scottish 
Widows should cover the shortfall amount. Scottish Widows agreed that it had done 
something wrong but didnt think it was responsible for covering the shortfall  Mr M had 
been sent numerous reviews leading up to and including 2013 but didnt take any action. It 
did, however, offer £150 compensation. 
Our investigator concluded Scottish Widows had fairly resolved the complaint. She found Mr 
M was already aware of the possible shortfall on maturity given the earlier reviews. So she 
didnt think Scottish Widows need do anything further. 
Mr M has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, he explained 
he assumed the policy was on track when he received no further review letters from Scottish 
Widows; he believed it must have performed better which was why he wasnt sent further 
letters. And he didnt contact them about the lack of reviews as he was still being sent 
annual statements; had he not been receiving correspondence at all he would have 
contacted it sooner.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Scottish Widows didnt send Mr M review letters from 2013 when it 
ought to have done. So I dont need to make any findings about that  my consideration is 
whether it has done enough to put this matter right. 
I understand Mr M found himself in a difficult position when being notified just a few months 
prior to maturity that there was going to be a shortfall of over £6,000. I fully accept a few 
months is very little time in which to take action. But I can only ask Scottish Widows to step 
in if I find that Mr M was likely to have taken action himself and that he had taken steps to 
mitigate any financial loss. 
The review programme was implemented by the regulator to ensure endowment policy 
holders were aware of the potential risk of a shortfall on maturity. This was following a 
sustained period of low investment returns. The letters were designed to prompt customers 
into taking action to ensure they could repay any mortgage the policy was associated with. 
Action could include such things as changing the mortgage to a repayment basis, building up 
savings and others. 
Mr M was sent an amber letter in 2000, a red letter in 2002 followed by red letters almost 
every year up to and including 2013. Im satisfied Mr M was aware, from the content of the 
letters, of the likelihood of a shortfall at maturity. Despite being sent many red letters, 
warning of shortfalls of many thousands of pounds against the target amount, Im not aware 
of him taking any action to cover any potential shortfall. I find it hard to accept that he would 
have taken steps in later years  that is, after 2013, had the letters been sent, particularly as 
it would have been more costly to take action the nearer he came to maturity. Im also 
mindful the letters contained the same or similar information and so nothing that would have 
prompted him to act differently than to the earlier warnings.  
As mentioned above, the purpose of the review letters was to prompt policy holders into 
taking action to repay their mortgage. Mr M had known of the high risk of him having a 
shortfall on maturity for a number of years. I have considered his argument he believed the 
policy was on track as he didnt receive further review letters, but I dont find this persuasive. 
Between 2000 - 2013 he had never been sent a review that indicated the policy would reach 
the target amount at maturity. And I can see no plausible reason to think that would change.
I also need to take into account there is a legal principle of mitigation, which requires people 
to take steps to minimise or avoid injury or losses. That means when Mr M became aware of 
the high risk of a shortfall, and therefore aware of potential financial losses, he had a duty to 
mitigate those potential losses. But as found above, Im not aware of him taking any steps in 
relation to the projected shortfall. So he hasnt mitigated against those potential losses.
Overall, having considered the matter carefully and whilst acknowledging Scottish Widows 
didnt send reviews when it ought to have done, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to require it to cover Mr Ms shortfall. 
I fully accept that not receiving information when he ought to have, has caused worry for Mr 
M. And it meant he was left with very little time to source help for meeting the shortfall. And 
for those reasons he should be fairly compensated for the worry and inconvenience caused. 
I find the £150 compensation offered is a fair resolution to this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Scottish Widows Limited has already fairly 
resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Mr M £150 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman