DRN-3296291
The complaint
Miss H complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly applied a fee for a balance transfer on 
her credit card account. 
What happened
In March 2021, Miss H took out a credit card with Sainsburys Bank which was advertised as 
being 0% on balance transfers for 18 months. 
Between March and May 2021, Miss H made four balance transfers on the account without a 
problem. But when making a further balance transfer in June 2021, Miss H noticed a fee of 
£82.50 was applied to the account. As she was still within the 18-month period, Miss H 
believed this was an error and raised a complaint. 
Sainsburys Bank explained that whilst the balance transfers are interest free for 18 months, 
there are fees applicable to balance transfers made after the first three months. As the 
balance transfer in June 2021 was made six days after the three months ended, Sainsburys 
Bank said the fee was applied correctly. It didnt uphold the complaint, so Miss H brought it 
to our service.
On reviewing the documentation Miss H was given regarding her credit card account, our 
investigator wasnt satisfied Sainsburys Bank had provided clear, fair and not misleading 
information on the applicable fees. So he upheld the complaint and asked it to refund the 
£82.50 charge. 
Miss H accepted this outcome to her complaint. But Sainsburys Bank didnt, so its been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H took out this credit card online. Sainsburys Bank has provided us with screenshots 
of the online journey, but these appear to be what is visible after the application has been 
successful. In addition, they dont appear to relate to the same offer that Miss H applied for. 
In any event, I can see that under the heading your card offer, it sets out the interest rates 
and charges. Here, it confirms that balance transfers have an introductory rate of 0.00% for 
the offer period. It also confirms what the standard interest rate is after that. But there is no 
mention of fees here. Given the heading, I would expect that if there were any charges / fees 
applicable, they would be listed here. 
Sainsburys Bank say Miss H wouldve had to have read the terms and conditions as well as 
the pre-contract credit information before completing her application. So Ive looked at these 
documents to see what information was included. 
The credit card agreement is set out in a 28-page document and starts on page 5. On page 
6, under the heading of APR and interest rates, there is a table showing the promotional 
rates. Under the column entitled on balance transfers, related interest and charges, it 
shows 0.00% for 18 months from account opening. Theres no mention of charges or fees 
here, despite it being included in the column heading.
On page 8, there is a separate heading of charges. It says we may charge a fee on the 
account of a balance transfer or money transfer. This will vary dependent on your current 
offer. You can find out what this is by calling us. There is no indication of what that fee 
would be and whether or not its applicable on this promotional offer.
I can see that the pre-contract credit information sheet starts on page 11 of the 28-page 
document. On page 15, under the heading any other costs deriving from the credit 
agreement there is a bullet point list of different charges. Point three says a balance 
transfer fee of 0.00% on transfers made within your first three months (minimum £3). The 
charge will depend on your current offer thereafter. You can find out what this is by calling 
us.
The account terms and conditions start on page 20 and makes no mention of the interest 
rate or charges. 
Miss H has provided us with the documentation she was sent following her successful 
application. This is a two-page document which, on page one, sets out the same promotional 
rates table as shown in the credit card agreement. On page two, under the heading of 
charges it states the same wording as the credit card agreement as quoted above.
I need to decide whether this information sets out to Miss H in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way that after three months, she will be charged a fee for balance transfers. And 
based on what Ive seen, I dont think it does. Ill explain why. 
This credit card was advertised as being interest free. Whilst that doesnt mean the account 
is free from fees and charges, it gives the indication that Miss H can use her card for a 
period of time without incurring costs. So if there is information which contradicts this 
understanding, the information needs to be clearly and prominently displayed.
From what Ive seen, the interest free promotional offer is displayed very clearly. And by 
including the word charges within the heading, it implies that these sections are also setting 
out any fees that are applicable. As none are listed, its fair to conclude that there are no 
charges that would apply, which is misleading.
But on reading further into the documents, we find that Sainsburys Bank says it may 
charge for balance transfers but that this will vary dependent on the promotional offer. And 
in the pre-contract agreement we find that the 0.00% fees for balance transfers is only for 
three months, but the charges thereafter are dependent on the promotional offer. 
I can appreciate why Miss H found this unclear. And I think its reasonable for her to assume 
that as shes on an 18-month promotional offer, this may not apply to her given the caveats 
Ive quoted above.
Im not satisfied this information is prominently displayed and that sufficient attention is 
brought to it. Its not enough for the information to be there when its lost in a long document. 
That said, Im not satisfied the information is sufficient regardless. If a fee is going to be 
applied, details of that fee should be given. Its not enough to say that a customer needs to 
call to find out what the fee will be. This isnt clear and fair information.Sainsburys Bank has also provided an advert for its interest fee credit card. But this is a 
different offer with different terms regarding balance transfer fees. And it was advertised over 
six months after Miss H applied for this account. So I havent found this to be persuasive 
evidence and I dont intend to comment on it further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint as Im not satisfied that Sainsburys 
Bank Plc provided Miss H with clear, fair and not misleading information regarding the 
applicable fees. Because of this, Miss H made a balance transfer that, had she known about 
the fee, Im persuaded she wouldve made six days earlier  in which case, she wouldnt 
have been charged this fee. 
I direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to refund the fee of £82.50 to Miss H. It should do so within 28 
days of confirmation that Miss H accepts this decision. Should Sainsburys Bank Plc wish to 
apply this money to the credit card account in question, its entitled to do so  which may 
mean this money is deducted from any balance owed to Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman