DRN-4309324
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way her home insurance claim has been handled. I consider 
Great Lakes Insurance SE is responsible for this complaint.
Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mrs W held a home insurance policy. It was taken out through a broker, T, and had 
been underwritten by an insurer, E, in 2019 and 2020.
At the July 2021 renewal, T sent Mrs W policy documents which named E as the 
underwriter again. These documents included version 5 of the policy wording.
In May 2022, Mrs Ws building and contents were damaged by fire. She got in touch 
with T to report the damage. T passed that onto a claim handler company, who 
appointed a loss adjuster. They accepted the claim and took steps to settle it.
During the claim, the loss adjuster sent Mrs W version 6 of the policy wording  
which is different to version 5 she received at renewal. In particular, it shows the 
insurer is Great Lakes, not E. This became a key point of dispute.
In August 2022, the claim was settled by paying cash, up to the index linked sum 
insured, for buildings, contents and alternative accommodation.
Mrs W complained about a number of things. In summary:
oThere had been a lack of clarity about who the underwriter for the policy was 
and which policy wording applied to the claim.
oIn line with the terms of the policy she had been given, version 5, she sent 
claim information directly to the address specified  but the information was 
returned as the address wasnt up to date.
oThere were delays and a lack of communication during the claim.
oShe was caused a lot of wasted time during the claim. For example, she was 
asked to list all items of contents, despite the relatively low sum insured.
oAnd she suffered financial losses making visits to the property.
oThe index linking wasnt calculated correctly.
oMrs W wasnt covered for costs relating to taking legal action against a third 
party or de-listing the property.
A final response was issued on behalf of Great Lakes in September 2022. It said E 
had ceased underwriting new UK policies from early 2021 and Great Lakes took over 
from it. So when the policy renewed in July 2021, Great Lakes became the 
underwriter for it. But T had sent the old policy wording naming E as the insurer  
version 5  rather than the new one naming Great Lakes as the insurer  version 6. 
Because of the mistake, Great Lakes said Mrs W could choose which of the two 
policy wordings to consider the claim under.
Great Lakes also said it had accepted and paid the claim in full. It apologised for 
what had happened, including confusion about who the insurer was and poor 
communication, and paid Mrs W £100 compensation.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. He was satisfied 
Great Lakes was the underwriter for the policy at the time of the claim  and it had 
been responsible for not providing T with up to date information prior to the 2021 
renewal. But as Great Lakes had taken ownership for the claim from the outset, this 
mistake had little impact on the claim itself. He thought Great Lakes had caused 
avoidable delays and communicated poorly during the claim. To put that right, he 
said it should increase compensation to £600 and pay the cost of Mrs W visiting the 
property to deal with the missing gate, the neighbours unhappiness with temporary 
props, and skip placement. He didnt uphold any other aspects of the complaint. And 
he said issues outside of the original complaint wouldnt be considered.
Mrs W disagreed, asked for an Ombudsman to consider her complaint, and provided 
further comments. Rather than summarising them here, Ill include anything I 
consider material to the complaint in the relevant sections of my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Mrs Ws submissions to this Service are extensive. Within this decision I wont be 
responding in similar detail. This is a reflection of the informal nature of this Service.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. Whilst that 
means I wont comment on everything the parties have said, I can confirm I have read and 
considered everything said by both parties when reaching my decision.
Scope of the complaint
This complaint deals with the points Mrs W made in July 2022 and which were answered on 
behalf of Great Lakes in September 2022. It wont deal with any other matters. Mrs W is 
entitled to make a new complaint about any such matters to Great Lakes if she wishes.
There is one exception to this  the temporary props installed by Great Lakes. Since the 
original complaint, theres been further discussion and evidence gathered about this and I 
understand its an ongoing matter. Mrs W has suggested it would be simpler and clearer for 
her to raise a separate complaint about this when shes able to present it in full. I agree, I 
dont think it would be helpful or practical to consider what happened on this point up to 
September 2022 only. So I havent considered this point or made any findings about it.
Clarity about the underwriter and policy wordingMrs Ws main cause for complaint is the confusion about which underwriter, and 
corresponding policy wording, is the correct one. Shes concerned there may not be a valid 
contract of insurance in place at all.
Whilst Im not looking at a complaint about E, so I cant consider or make any findings about 
it, I can provide some general background which may help to explain what happened.
E is a German insurer. Agreements in the European Economic Area meant it had been able 
to provide insurance in the UK. That agreement came to an end in December 2020.
From early 2021, E entered supervised run off in the UK. Thats why Mrs W found E still 
had permission to provide insurance in the UK in 2021. In summary, that arrangement meant 
E could continue to provide insurance for any existing policies  but it couldnt enter into new 
contracts for policies, including renewals, in 2021 and thereafter.
Great Lakes became the underwriter of this policy at the 2021 renewal. That meant version 5 
of the policy wording was out of date at that time and version 6 was the correct one. 
However, theres no evidence to suggest Great Lakes had told T this and/or shared version 
6 of the policy wording  which correctly named it as the underwriter  with T prior to the 
renewal. And T says it didnt find out about it and receive the new policy wording until after 
the renewal. So T used version 5 at the renewal, which named E as the underwriter.
In my view, responsibility for this mistake  and any consequences which flowed from it  sit 
with Great Lakes. I understand arrangements had been made for it to take over underwriting 
new policies and renewals from E in early 2021. So I think it should have provided T with the 
up to date policy wording, version 6, long before this policy renewed in July 2021. Had it 
done so, T would likely have shared the correct policy wording with Mrs W at the renewal 
and its unlikely that any dispute about the underwriter of the policy would have arisen.
However, there are two key reasons why I dont think that made a significant difference to 
Mrs Ws claim. Firstly, both underwriters under both policy wordings used the same claim 
handler company. That meant the correct party was contacted to handle the claim from the 
outset. And secondly, Great Lakes settled the claim, so Mrs W received the insurance cover 
she thought she was getting. Whilst there are disputes about the extent of the settlement, 
none of them are impacted by the choice of policy wording.
So even if Mrs W had received the correct policy at the renewal, I dont think the claim 
handling or outcome would have been any different. Mrs W would have been in touch with 
the same claim handler, loss adjuster and other agents and representatives of the insurer. 
And aside from the dispute about who the underwriter was, its likely the claim would have 
taken the same course and been settled the same way. I accept Mrs Ws point that there are 
some differences between the policy versions which could have had an impact on a claim. 
But my focus is on what did happen, and whether Great Lakes mistake caused Mrs W to 
lose out. So Ill only consider the differences if they were relevant in this claim.
Its clear it was important to Mrs W to be sure the policy was valid, would cover her loss, and 
she was in touch with the correct parties about it. Great Lakes mistake meant she couldnt 
be sure of that initially and that undoubtedly caused her avoidable distress and 
inconvenience. But I think the parties handling the claim provided a reasonable explanation 
about what had happened and were clear from an early stage that the claim was covered. 
So Im satisfied that kept the impact of the mistake to a minimum. I know Mrs W wasnt 
satisfied with the information she received about this and has invested a considerable 
amount of time and effort challenging it and seeking further information. Whilst her strength 
of feeling is clear, Im not persuaded all of this was necessary or reasonable, so Ill take that 
into account when considering what a fair amount of compensation would be.Mrs W has argued that there was no valid contract of insurance in place. Version 6 was the 
correct policy wording and was, in my view, valid. Great Lakes has paid a significant amount 
of money to settle a claim under that policy. I dont think it would have done so had it not be 
the insurer of a valid policy. Whilst Mrs W was initially sent version 5 of the policy, Im 
satisfied that was an administrative error and nothing more. Im not satisfied such an error 
invalidated the contract of insurance with Great Lakes.
And even if Im wrong about that, and the contract were either invalidated or with E, I would 
still have to go on to consider what impact that had on Mrs W. She understood she was 
insured up to a limit, and an insurer settled the claim to that limit, so I dont think it makes a 
material difference to the claim outcome whether the contract of insurance was valid or not. 
That means I dont think Mrs W lost out even if the contract were invalid.
The confusion about the policy wording didnt have a direct impact on the claim settlement. 
But it did mean that when Mrs W complied with the term in version 5 requiring her to provide 
information to the claim handler, this was returned because the address was out of date. It 
had been updated in version 6, which Mrs W didnt have at the time. I can understand why 
that was frustrating for her. However, she was already in touch with the loss adjuster at that 
time and could have shared the information with them too. Whilst she had concerns that the 
loss adjusters appointment was ambiguous, I disagree. I think it was reasonable to accept 
they were working as an agent of the insurer. And whilst it would have been frustrating to 
have the documents returned, the time she spent preparing them wasnt wasted because 
she could still share the documents with the relevant parties. Nonetheless, Im satisfied Mrs 
W was caused some avoidable distress and inconvenience, and Ill take that into account 
when thinking about a fair level of compensation.
It may help to explain that many insurers dont handle claims themselves, so they may not 
be in direct contact with their policyholders. Its quite common for insurers to appoint claim 
handlers and/or loss adjusters to deal with claims on their behalf. Some may also choose to 
delegate authority for complaint handling to agents too. That was the case here, which is 
why Mrs W didnt hear directly from Great Lakes but did hear from its agents. Insurers are 
entitled to do this. So just because Mrs W didnt hear directly from Great Lakes, it doesnt 
follow that it isnt the insurer of her policy. Im satisfied it was ultimately responsible for the 
claim, including the payments made, and this complaint.
Index linking
At the July 2021 renewal, the buildings sum insured was around £260,000. In August 2021, 
it was increased to £300,000.
The policy says the sum insured will be index linked monthly in line with the Rebuilding Cost 
Index by RICS.
In principle, I think this should start from the renewal. However, the index for July 2021 was 
1.8%. And applying that increase to £260,000 would be significantly less than £300,000. So I 
think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to begin indexing from £300,000 in August 2021.
Doing that until May 2022 gives a figure of around £325,000  which is what Great Lakes 
paid. The fire happened on the last day of May, so the claim may strictly have been made in 
June and that might justify going a month further. But in June 2022 the index was negative, 
so there would have been no benefit to Mrs W if Great Lakes had taken that approach.At the time Great Lakes carried out the index linking, some of the figures were provisional 
or forecast as they were relatively recent. I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes 
to base the index linking on the RICS information available at the time.
Mrs W has pointed out that the sum insured at the July 2022 renewal was set to £332,700. 
But I dont think that has any impact on the claim settlement as theres no evidence to 
suggest this figure is the one indicated by RICS index linking.
Potential claim against third party
I understand Mrs W considers a third party may have been responsible for the fire which 
caused damage to her property. So a claim could be made against that third party for 
damages  those insured and otherwise.
The policy says Great Lakes may take responsibility for conducting a claim in Mrs Ws name. 
So it has the choice whether to take action against a third party. And it doesnt provide cover 
for the cost of Mrs W taking action of her own against a third party.
Great Lakes considered taking action but decided not to. I think thats a legal and 
commercial decision its entitled to make, based on its view of the strength of the evidence 
available, the likely costs involved, and its own appetite to take such action. It told Mrs W 
that meant she was free to issue a claim against the third party, if she wished to, and at her 
own expense. Im satisfied thats in line with the policy terms and fair and reasonable.
De-listing the property
Mrs Ws property was Grade II listed. I understand she began the process to apply to have it 
de-listed. If it were de-listed, that would likely reduce the cost of repair, so Mrs W asked 
Great Lakes to pay the cost of the de-listing process.
Great Lakes said the policy didnt cover this cost. The policy covers expenses Mrs W has to 
pay and which Great Lakes agrees to. It hasnt agreed and Im not satisfied Mrs W had to 
take steps to de-list the property. So I agree with Great Lakes the cost isnt covered.
Whilst I recognise Mrs Ws point that it may overall have been more cost effective for Great 
Lakes to pay for the process and potentially benefit from a lower claim settlement, I dont 
think that means Great Lakes is required to deviate from the policy in this way. Its entitled to 
follow the policy, not pay for the process as its not covered, and pay the full sum insured to 
Mrs W in claim settlement.
Claim handling and associated costs
I wont go through everything that happened during the claim, Ill focus on the key events.
In summary, this was a claim for significant damage thats clearly had a considerable and 
lasting impact on Mrs W and her family. Whilst thats plain to see, any distress and 
inconvenience that flows from the fire itself isnt Great Lakes responsibility  the policy 
doesnt compensate for the upset caused by the damage itself.
However, Great Lakes has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly, including timely and 
helpful communication. Where it didnt do that and it added avoidably to the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by Mrs W, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to 
pay appropriate compensation.Great Lakes itself has accepted its communication was lacking. There were a number of 
parties appointed by Great Lakes and it wasnt always entirely clear which one was 
supposed to be taking the next step or what the next step was. Mrs W often had to chase for 
updates when I would expect them to be proactively given to her by the party managing the 
claim for Great Lakes. When she did receive updates, they tended to lack clarity and didnt 
deal with all the relevant points. And she was asked to approve costs for one of the agents, 
which I wouldnt expect to happen. This caused Mrs W some concern about the expectations 
of her as the policyholder and the way the claim was being managed. Given all of these 
points, which are just a summary of what went wrong, I can understand why she felt the 
claim hadnt been handled fairly and had caused distress and inconvenience.
Mrs W doesnt live at the property  her home is a considerable journey away. The distance, 
and other family factors, made it difficult for her to make trips to the property.
When making a claim, especially one with significant damage, its common and reasonable 
for an insurer to expect a policyholder to provide access to and meet at the property at a 
number of key stages. The cost of doing this isnt covered by the policy and its not 
something Id expect Great Lakes to compensate Mrs W for. However, where additional 
avoidable visits were required of Mrs W, I think it should pay compensation to reflect her 
financial losses unnecessarily incurred and wasted time.
The investigator identified several such unnecessary visits in the period up to the final 
response. Great Lakes hasnt challenged this and I agree that if it had managed the claim 
better, they would have been avoided. These are the visits to deal with the temporary 
propping, skip placement, and the missing gate. If Mrs W provides evidence of her costs 
facilitating these visits, Great Lakes should reimburse her. I will factor her wasted time into 
the compensation for non-financial loss.
On a related point, Mrs W needed access to inspect the contents and she was trying to 
make arrangements to do that. However, she didnt receive clear and prompt information 
about how to do that, which made things more difficult for her than they should have been. 
This added unnecessarily to her distress and wasted some of her time, so it will also be 
factored into the compensation for non-financial loss.
I dont think it was unreasonable for the loss adjuster to ask Mrs W to list all the contents. 
Whilst the relatively low sum insured meant the claim for damaged items would likely exceed 
the sum insured, an itemised list of everything damaged would have been helpful if either 
Great Lakes or Mrs W had taken action against a third party. And the loss adjuster is entitled 
to consider whether the total value of contents has any impact on the claim or the policy.
The claim was settled within three months, which isnt wholly unreasonable in the 
circumstances. Given the significant damage and corresponding costs involved, I think it was 
inevitable the claim would take some time to quantify. However, that process could have 
been conducted more quickly. That would have lessened the avoidable impact on Mrs W.
Mrs W has asked to be paid for her time spent collating information for the claim. The policy 
says it will pay reasonable expenses incurred where Great Lakes has asked for specific 
information relevant to the claim. I havent seen evidence of such expenses from Mrs W. If 
she has them, shes entitled to share them with Great Lakes for it to consider. Aside from 
that, I wouldnt usually expect an insurer to pay for a policyholders time dealing with a claim. 
Any wasted time is factored into compensation and isnt paid as an expense.
OverallLooking at the overall claim handling, up to the final response in September 2022, Im 
satisfied there were a number of aspects that fell short of expectations and caused Mrs W 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience  at a time that was already particularly upsetting 
and difficult for her.
The lack of clarity about the correct underwriter and policy wording also contributed to this.
As a result, Im satisfied Great Lakes should pay compensation. Im satisfied a total of £600 
is reasonable in the circumstances. If Great Lakes has already paid the £100 it offered in its 
final response, it only need pay the remaining £500.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Pay a total of £600 compensation*.
Pay Mrs Ws travel costs, subject to evidence, for visits she made to the property to 
deal with the missing gate, the neighbours unhappiness, and skip replacement  all 
up to the date of the final response letter in September 2022.
*Great Lakes must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs W 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the award 
from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman