DRN-3883919
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited hasnt refunded an amount she paid on her 
credit card for goods she didnt receive.
What happened
Mrs S used her Vanquis credit card to purchase an item on-line in November 2021. She 
says she chased the merchant, but when the item wasnt delivered, she contacted Vanquis 
in May 2022 to raise a chargeback. Having not heard anything further, she contacted 
Vanquis again in September 2022. 
Vanquis looked into the matter, but it said it couldnt find any evidence that Mrs S had 
contacted it before September 2022. And, as the transaction had taken place more than 120 
days before she contacted it, it was unable to pursue a chargeback. Unhappy with the 
response Mrs S referred her complaint to this service.  
One of investigators looked into the matter, but she didnt uphold Mrs S complaint. She said 
that under the chargeback scheme rules a claim for goods not received had to be made 
within 120 days of the transaction date. And that even if Vanquis had record of a claim being 
made in May 2022, this would have been outside the required timeframe. She also noted 
that Mrs S couldnt make a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act as the 
transaction made was under £100.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said the item she ordered had been dispatched on 1 February 2022, 
so her claim raised in May 2022 was made in time. The investigator considered what Mrs S 
had said. But she didnt think this altered the outcome she had reached. She noted that the 
confirmation email Mrs S received when she placed the order said the item would be 
delivered in the first week of January 2022. So, she thought the latest date that the 
chargeback timescales could be calculated from was 9 January 2022. She also said that 
there was insufficient evidence that the claim had been logged with Vanquis in                      
May 2022. 
Mrs S reiterated that shed provided evidence showing that the item was dispatched on                    
1 February 2022, so she thought chargeback claim made in May 2022 was within the                 
120-day rule. And she asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman to decide as 
she thought using the earlier date was unfair.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator. I 
acknowledge that Mrs S will be disappointed as she hasnt received the goods she paid for. 
But I need to be satisfied that Mrs S chargeback claim was made within the scheme rules. 
The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the relevant card schemes providers  
Visa or Mastercard. But its not a guaranteed way of getting a refund. For the card scheme 
relevant in this case, the rules say that there is a limited window of time in which to raise a 
chargeback. Generally, this is 120 days from the date of the transaction or, if a service was 
meant to be provided by a specific date in the future, 120 days from that date. 
Our investigator said Mrs S chargeback claim wouldnt have been successful because the 
latest anticipated delivery date for the item she purchased was the last week of January 
2022  so this is when the 120-day rule started. Ive seen Mrs S has challenged this 
because she received a later email indicating delivery would be 1 February 2022. But Im not 
persuaded the outcome of this complaint turns on this point. Ill explain why. 
Mrs S says she complained to Vanquis in May 2022. But Vanquis says it has no record of 
receiving a chargeback claim from Mrs S until September 2022. Ive looked at the account 
records Vanquis has provided which details its contact with Mrs S during 2022. And this 
doesnt indicate that a letter was received in May 2022. The records indicate that the earliest 
correspondence relating to this matter was recorded as being received in September 2022.
 
In light of the above, while I accept Mrs S sent a letter to Vanquis in May 2022, I cant safely 
say it was received. And Mrs S hasnt provided anything that would make me think that it 
was - for example, confirmation of delivery by Royal Mail or that she followed up that letter 
before September 2022. So, having thought carefully about this, overall, I dont think Ive 
seen enough to safely say Mrs S successfully contacted Vanquis in May 2022. 
I can understand that Mrs S is unhappy that the merchant didnt provide the goods she paid 
for, and I empathise with her situation. But based on the evidence available to me, Im not 
persuaded that Mrs S chargeback claim was raised within the timeframe set out in 
chargeback scheme rules. And as the transaction was for under £100 Vanquis is unable to 
pursue a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. So, I wont be asking Vanquis 
to refund Mrs S for the amount of the credit card payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
12 April 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman