DRN-2909274
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC reduced his credit limit and reported a missed
payment on his credit file after he repaid the outstanding balance of his credit card.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
What happened
On 13 July 2020 Mr A paid £2,968.37 to cover the outstanding balance of his credit card, in
line with the statement he received. On 13 July 2020 Mr As regular direct debit of £150 was
also collected by Lloyds.
On 16 July 2020 Mr A spoke with Lloyds and it refunded the £150 direct debit payment it had
collected. Mr A has explained that he thought his credit card was repaid at that point. During
this call, the direct debit used to collect Mr As credit card payments was cancelled.
On 19 July 2020 Lloyds applied residual interest of £34.64 to the account and sent Mr A a
statement by email that said he needed to make a payment by 13 August 2020.
Mr A didnt repay the outstanding balance until 21 September 2020 and has explained he
didnt realise he owed anything else. Lloyds reported a missed payment on Mr As credit file
and reduced his credit limit to £550.
Mr A complained but Lloyds didnt agree it had made a mistake in the way it had handled his
account. Mr A went on to refer his complaint to this service and it was passed to an
investigator. They thought Lloyds had dealt with Mr As case fairly, so didnt ask it to do
anything else. Mr A asked to appeal and explained he hadnt received reminder letters
Lloyds sent him.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree Lloyds has applied the account terms and conditions and Mr A did make a late
payment, Im not persuaded his complaint has been dealt with fairly. All parties agree that Mr
A didnt make the payment to cover residual interest on time, and I understand that means
Lloyds took the decision to report a missed payment on his credit file and reduce the credit
limit. But I dont think the missed payment is a reasonable reflection of how Mr A handled his
credit card or what happened.
Ive looked at the Information Commissioners Offices (ICOs) guidance on reporting arrears
to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). It says that if a customer doesnt make a payment
as expected, the account may be reported to the CRAs. It doesnt say the account must be
reported. The guidance goes on to say The purpose of reporting arrears is to indicate at the
earliest reasonable opportunity that a customer is showing signs of potential financial
difficulty. In this case, Im not persuaded the missed payment was a sign Mr A was
potentially experiencing financial difficulties. I think Mr A missed his payment due to a
genuine mistake.
Mr A cleared the outstanding balance on 13 July 2020 and Lloyds also collected a £150
direct debit on the same day. On 16 July 2020 Mr A spoke with Lloyds about the
overpayment and it arranged to refund it. Ive listened to that call and I think Lloyds shouldve
warned Mr A that there was a possibility another payment could be due.
Whilst the call handler may not have known the specific amount of residual interest that
would be applied the following month, I think they wouldve been aware of how a credit card
operates, including the application of residual interest. And I think they shouldve warned Mr
A that a further payment may become due even though hed cleared the previous statement
balance in full.
From Mr As perspective, as an ordinary consumer, Im satisfied he believed his liability due
under the credit card was repaid when he made a payment on 13 July 2020. And during his
call on 16 July 2020 Mr A told the advisor he was fully paid up. That statement wasnt
challenged and Im satisfied its clear Mr A wasnt aware residual interest would be applied.
I also note the advisor cancelled the direct debit instruction which meant no further payments
were collected. Again, I think this shouldve been a trigger for them to tell Mr A to check his
statements to ensure no further interest became due. But there was no information of that
nature provided.
Lloyds emailed Mr A monthly statements but Im satisfied he genuinely believed his debt was
repaid. And I think most consumers wouldnt actively monitor an account they genuinely
thought had no balance due. I think the first time Mr A became aware of the issue was when
he received a letter from Lloyds and he quickly repaid the outstanding amount.
The ICO guidance says arrears reporting is used to reflect signs of financial difficulty but Im
not persuaded thats what happened in this case. I think Mr As missed payment was caused
by a genuine mistake and reporting that on his credit file is disproportionate and unfair.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to tell Lloyds to remove the missed
payment from Mr As credit file.
Lloyds also reduced Mr As credit limit but has agreed to look at his financial position to see
if it can increase it. Im satisfied Lloyds can review and reduce or increase a credit limit in
line with the terms and its commercial decision. So Im not going to tell it to change the credit
limit in this case. But, once Lloyds has amended Mr As credit file, he has the option of
revisiting his credit card facility with it to see if an increase can be approved.
I can see theres been a degree of trouble and upset caused in this case and, as Ive said
above, I think Lloyds shouldve warned Mr A about potential residual interest when it
refunded his overpayment and cancelled his direct debit. So I also intend to tell Lloyds to pay
Mr A £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to respond with any additional comments or 
points they wanted me to consider before making my final decision. Lloyds responded and 
confirmed it accepts. We didnt hear back from Mr A. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided new information that changes my view of how to resolve this 
complaint. As a result, I still think Mr As complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to remove the missed 
payment from Mr As credit file and pay him £100.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman