DRN-1068482
The complaint
Mrs H says National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) alongside a credit card in 1996.
What happened
Mrs H applied for a NatWest credit card in June 1996. At the same time, she bought a 
PPI policy. The cost of the PPI was charged to the card, so she'd repay this extra cost with 
interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs H thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mrs H didn't 
agree. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs H's case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I think Mrs H knew the policy was optional. NatWest has sent us a copy of the application for 
the card. To buy PPI Mrs H needed to complete a separate section headed "Card 
protection". Mrs H needed to sign one of two boxes: one of the boxes was labelled "YES", 
the other was labelled "NO". Mrs H has signed the box labelled "YES". I see Mrs H also 
declined another optional product that was offered in the same section of the agreement. 
And Mrs H applied for the policy by post, without the involvement of anyone from NatWest. 
For these reasons I think Mrs H knew she had a choice about taking the policy - and she 
chose to buy it.
Mrs H applied for the policy by post - so I don't think she was advised to buy the policy. So 
NatWest didn't have to check it was right for Mrs H. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got 
the information she needed to decide for herself if it was right for her.
It's possible the information NatWest gave Mrs H about the policy wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what I've seen of Mrs H's circumstances at the time, it doesn't look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions or limits to the cover - so it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I don't think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
This means NatWest doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because NatWest didn't tell 
Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
I've thought about everything else Mrs H has said. But these points don't change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold, so National Westminster Bank plc doesn't have to pay back 
all the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But National Westminster Bank plc does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman