DRN-3521064
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Creation Financial Services Limited cant tell him precisely which date 
his credit card statement will be produced each month. This leaves him unsure which 
purchases will fall due for payment in each billing cycle.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Creation has explained that Mr G is able to choose from 4 document production 
dates, 1st, 6th, 11th and 20th. And a statement will be produced on or around that date 
taking into account weekends and bank holidays. 
Mr G has provided a statement from 13 April 2021 which includes transactions up to 
10th April, which he wasnt expecting. I can understand this would have come as a 
surprise but given the 11th of that month fell on a weekend, the statement wouldnt 
have been produced until the next working day and sent the day after. 
Transactions can take up to three working days to show as a purchase, so this 
further adds a variable as to what purchases may be included when a statement is 
produced. If the 11th for example falls on a weekday, it may or may not include 
purchases made in the three days prior  as this depends on how quickly the retailer 
calls for the payment and it is processed.  As per the statement referred to above, the 
11th fell on a weekend so when the statement was produced on the next working day 
this allowed additional time for those transactions to be processed and to show.
Mr G has asked Creation to provide him with a definite list of dates as to when his 
statement will be produced to aid in his planning. However, this isnt something I will 
be directing it to do. Creation has explained the way in which statements are 
produced and why this may be variable, which I think is sufficient. It isnt the role of 
this service to tell a financial business how it should conduct its day to day 
operations, so I wont be asking it to do anything differently here. 
Mr G has also raised some points about how Creation responded to his complaint 
and that it didnt provide him with a leaflet about this service. Although I appreciate 
Mr Gs frustration here, complaints handling itself isnt a regulated activity so it falls 
outside of my remit to consider. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against Creation Financial Services 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman