DRN-2644622
The complaint
 Mr D complains that EQUIFAX LIMITED (Equifax) has been displaying incorrect historical 
data on his credit report.
What happened
Mr D has a credit card provided by a company I'll call L for the purposes of this decision.
When Mr D checked his Equifax credit report, he noticed the historical balances for his L 
credit card were incorrect. Mr D checked his credit report with other credit reference 
agencies, and these were displaying the correct information, so Mr D believed there to be a 
problem with Equifax's system. He contacted Equifax to query this. Equifax told him data 
was owned by L and it only displayed what L provided it. It raised a query with L on Mr D's 
behalf.
L confirmed the data it had provided Equifax was correct. Equifax told Mr D there was 
nothing further it could to. Mr D disagreed and so brought his complaint to our service.
Upon receiving the request, from the investigator, for the business file, Equifax looked into 
matters further. It discovered there was a difference in the information L was providing to it 
and what it was displaying on Mr D's credit report. It was unable to confirm why this was 
happening but said its IT department was looking into the glitch. It also confirmed, the 
mistake had had no impact on Mr D's credit score or credit worthiness.
The investigator upheld Mr D's complaint, in summary he said: Equifax should have 
investigated matters properly for Mr D when he reported the error and asked it to pay £100 
for the trouble and upset it caused him.
Equifax agreed with the investigators proposed resolution.
Mr D indicated that he would like to respond to the view, the investigator contacted Mr D a 
number of times to ask for his response, as he did not provide one the matter was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
 
Before reaching my decision, I spoke with Mr D to see if there was anything further, he 
wanted to add. He confirmed to me that any response he was going to provide was more for 
feedback that he would like passed to Equifax rather than in dispute of the investigator's 
findings. So, I have gone ahead with my decision.
It is no longer in dispute that Equifax is displaying incorrect historical balances for Mr D's 
credit card account. Equifax has told us it is it investigating the glitch and once its IT 
department have identified what's causing the problem, it will be corrected. So, I haven't 
looked into this any further as there is nothing more, I could ask it to do at this stage.
There is no evidence to suggest the error has affected Mr D's credit score or credit 
worthiness and Equifax has confirmed this is the case. Given this, I'm satisfied the £100 
suggested by the investigator, is fair compensation for the trouble and upset Equifax has 
caused Mr D. It follows, I won't be asking it to increase this.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr D Equifax should correct the error on Mr D's credit report once the 
cause is identified. It should also pay Mr D £100 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr D's complaint against 
EQUIFAX LTD.
Equifax should now pay Mr D £100 for the trouble and upset it has caused.
Work to correct the information displayed on Mr D's credit report
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman