DRN-1988019
The complaint
Mr E and Ms K complain The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland mis-sold a 
regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out in 2001 with a mortgage. The 
policy covered Mr E if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr E and Ms K disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr E and Ms Ks case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think that Bank of Ireland recommended the policy to 
Mr E and Ms K, so the key question I need to consider is:
- Did the bank give Mr E and Ms K information that was clear, fair and not misleading 
in order to put them in a position where they could make an informed choice about 
the insurance they were buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr E and Ms K are 
worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  such as not taking 
out the policy  if there had been no problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr E and Ms Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr E and Ms K say the PPI was presented as part of the mortgage package, and that Bank 
of Ireland didnt give them a proper choice about buying it. Ive noted everything theyve said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr E and Ms K and 
Bank of Ireland when the policy was sold. The bank hasnt been able to provide much 
paperwork from the time, which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Im 
also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and that exact recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
So without anything else to support what Mr E and Ms K have said, I dont think I can fairly 
or reasonably say that Bank of Ireland didnt make them aware they had a choice about 
buying the PPI. 
Mr E and Ms K say they didnt need the policy because Mr E had very good benefits from his 
employer if he couldnt work because of sickness or accident. But Bank of Ireland didnt give 
any advice to Mr E and Ms K, so it didnt have to check whether it was suitable for Mr E. It 
was for Mr E and Ms K to decide whether or not they wanted the policy, taking account of 
their overall circumstances. 
But even if Bank of Ireland had advised Mr E and Ms K to buy the policy, it doesnt look as 
though it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances. I say this 
because the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Es employer benefits, and wouldve 
allowed Mr E and Ms K to use those benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think the policy 
wouldve been useful to them.
I cant be sure that the cost of the PPI was made clear to Mr E and Ms K before they agreed 
to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr E and Ms 
K would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Mr E satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. And his 
circumstances do not suggest he would have been caught by any of the conditions limiting 
the policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-
existing medical conditions). So I dont think better information about the policys limitations 
wouldve affected Mr E and Ms Ks decision to buy it.
In summary, I think Mr E and Ms K agreed to take out the cover, knowing they didnt have to. 
And given it provided broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont think 
they would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they had 
been better informed.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman