DRN-3861198
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc added a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr D says that the marker is affecting his ability to open a bank account elsewhere and he 
knows nothing about any fraudulent money paid into his account.
Santander said it received a report that a payment of £50 into Mr Ds account in February 
2020 had been fraudulently obtained. It was quickly withdrawn. It asked Mr D to show proof 
of entitlement to the money and he didnt do so. Santander said that it closed the account 
and added the marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. There were grounds to add 
the marker and close the account. The amount involved wasnt relevant and Mr D couldnt 
show he was entitled to the money.
Mr D didnt agree and wanted his case to be reviewed. He was 17 at the time and now 
doesnt recall anything. He wasnt aware of any fraudulent money and didnt know £50 had 
been paid in fraudulently. He has been turned down when applying for other accounts and 
he needs access to a bank account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Santander 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I can see from Santanders records that it noted that it had spoken with Mr D about this 
money in March 2020. And that hed indicated that this was from a friend, hed provided the 
first name of. He was asked to provide proof of entitlement and also told that the money 
hadnt come from a person with that name. Mr D didnt provide any evidence and the 
account was closed. 
Ive noted what hes told this service now and that he didnt know that this money was 
fraudulent. Ive looked at his bank statement and can see that this money was withdrawn in 
cash the day it was sent. And Mr D hasnt provided any explanation of how anyone other 
than him could have accessed his account in this way without his authority. So, having 
considered all the evidence I find it most likely that he was complicit in what happened.
Santander says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr D received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Santander was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Santander needs to have enough information to make 
a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ds account of events and what he has provided, Im satisfied that  
Santander had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr D received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Santander at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Santander had grounds to believe that Mr D had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
Given my findings I dont think Santander made a mistake in closing his account. And I dont 
have a reasonable basis to require it to do anything further. I know that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr D given what he says about the impact the marker is having for him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman