DRN-3826826
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of a leak and boiler claim 
under his HomeCare policy.
What happened
Mr Cs boiler suffered a leak. Mr C said BG had caused the leak when it had done previous 
work on the boiler and that BG accepted this was the case. He also said the leak had been 
going on for years and BG should have spotted it when it last serviced the boiler 14 months 
before. The boiler had rusted due to the leak, had to be condemned, and a new boiler 
installed. BG agreed to pay for a new boiler, along with £100 compensation, but it didnt 
agree to pay the installation costs.
Mr C said BG should also pay for the installation costs. He said because of this situation BG 
had left the safety of him and his family at risk. He said BG should also pay compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. As BG didnt agree to these extra costs Mr C 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt find any evidence that BG had been 
to blame for the boiler being condemned or for the leak. She agreed that the £100 paid by 
BG as compensation for it assuming Mr C had got a third party to install a filter was fair.
Mr C didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to confirm and reassure all parties that I have read all of the information provided. So, 
even if I havent referred to it here all the details have been reviewed and considered. But 
Ive focused on what I think are the key areas of this complaint.
Mr C said that BG accepted it had caused the damage and referred to particular emails 
which he said proved this. But Ive not found any detail in the emails where BG accepted 
responsibility. So, that isnt how Ive read the emails. I dont read or see anything in the 
emails that tells me BG accepted it had fitted the filter. Also, I dont see any detail that 
suggests that the leak was long term or should have been noticed in the service carried out 
14 months before the leak was uncovered. I can see that BG said a filter or a Powerflush 
was suggested. BG said that the records from its engineer at the time of this visit showed 
that Mr C declined the quotation for this work. It said this work would be considered an 
upgrade and so wasnt automatically covered by the policy. So, BG didnt fit a filter. Ive not 
seen any evidence to suggest otherwise. I note Mr C has said an experts opinion has not 
been gathered. Ive seen what BG has relied upon and Ive seen what Mr C has relied upon. 
Ive not seen any other expert evidence to outweigh the evidence provided by BG.
In terms of the type of filter fitted to the boiler BG has confirmed this isnt a filter it would use 
in any event. Without any details to contradict this I dont find that BG has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
BG said that rust can develop relatively quickly and theres no evidence to show that any of 
the damage or the leak was occurring when the boiler had been last serviced. It said it 
couldve happened at any point in the intervening period, and there was plenty of time 
between the visits for damage to have been caused. Mr C said the damage hadnt been 
going on for 13 months he said it was years. But aside from the photos which show the 
damage at the point the leak was uncovered and the annual service records from BG theres 
nothing to confirm exactly when the leak and rust started to occur. BGs record said it had 
last attended the property on 15 January 2021, the annual service had been completed and 
the condensate tightened. BG said this is located at the bottom of the boiler. It confirmed 
there wasnt any report of any rust.
I take on board Mr Cs point that he put his trust in BG to look after any issues with the 
boiler. But it would be a big step to then go on to suggest the damage had been going on for 
years and BG had been ignoring it despite carrying out an annual service. I dont think 
theres evidence to show the damage was there at the time of the previous service.
Mr C said that as BG was willing to pay for the boiler this showed that it must have done 
something wrong. BG said that based on the evidence it appeared the boiler was probably 
older than seven years. But it did accept that the records werent clear and there wasnt any 
documentation to support or deny this. So, BG felt it was likely the boiler was outside the 
usual period where it would pay for replacement. But decided in this case to offer as a fair 
and reasonable goodwill gesture to pay the costs for the new boiler but not for the 
installation. In the circumstances I think thats fair and reasonable.
In terms of total payments BG confirmed it was willing to pay £1,149 for the new boiler, 
£102.50 for the policy cover back to the last renewal date, and a further £100 compensation 
for wrongly suggesting Mr C had a third party fit a filter. This gives a total payment of 
£1301.50. I think thats fair and reasonable based on the evidence and details Ive seen.
Mr C has referred to certain legal points and potential legal proceedings as his complaint has 
come towards the end of the investigation by this service. I see our investigator responded to 
those points. But to be clear Mr C is perfectly entitled to decline to accept the final decision 
of this service and can then choose to take BG to court if he so wishes.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman