DRN-3518418
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs P have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have 
decided to withdraw travel insurance as a benefit of the Flex Account.
Mr S and Mrs P say they would like to continue to receive free travel insurance for as long as 
they fund their account with £750 per month, or they would like compensation if this is not 
possible.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that Nationwide had 
done anything wrong, and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the complaint to 
be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that Mr S and Mrs P and Nationwide have provided, I dont 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I understand that Nationwide previously included free travel insurance with the Flex Account 
provided that account holders credited at least £750 per month into their account. However, 
Nationwide chose to withdraw this feature of the account and it is the withdrawal of this 
benefit that Mr S and Mrs P are unhappy with, especially as they had been relying on the 
travel insurance for a number of years.
In summary, Nationwide is not obliged to provide any particular product to its customers, and 
it is free to decide what products it offers. Therefore, I cant say Nationwide has done 
anything, or acted unfairly just because it chose to withdraw the free travel insurance 
provided with the Flex Account.
What Nationwide was required to do however, when making such a change to the account, 
was to give account holders reasonable notice of the change. This was to ensure that 
account holders were made aware of what changes will be taking place and also to give 
them time to consider their options e.g. to arrange alternative travel insurance.
In this case, I understand that Nationwide wrote to Mr S and Mrs P in September 2021 to 
inform them that the travel insurance was being withdrawn and then wrote to them again in 
December 2021, to confirm that the travel insurance was being withdrawn on 31 December 
2021. Therefore, it seems that Nationwide did what it needed to do in terms of notifying Mr S 
and Mrs P about the withdrawal of the travel insurance. 
As such, given that Nationwide has not done anything wrong or acted unfairly in this matter, I 
am unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask  Mr S and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman