DRN-3535934
The complaint
Mr K complains that  HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (firstdirect) didnt make a 
payment.
What happened
On 16 December 2021, Mr K called firstdirect to make a payment of £5,000 to another 
bank to pay for foreign currency. He had agreed to buy £5,000 worth of Barbadian dollars 
at a rate of 2.598. Firstdirect didnt make the payment as it was subject to fraud checks. Mr 
K found out from the beneficiary that the payment hadnt been made and his currency 
order was cancelled. He then bought the currency from another bank at a rate of 2.5755  
a loss of £43.68.
Mr K complained. He said he had no idea that the payment hadnt been made until he 
found out from the foreign exchange firm on 21 December 2021  because the currency 
he ordered hadnt been delivered. By then, it was too late to re-order the currency for 
delivery as he was travelling soon after. So, he had to buy it from a local bank and at a 
worse rate. He said firstdirect didnt contact him to let him know the payment hadnt been 
made.
Firstdirect said the payment was held, subject to fraud checks. Theyd tried to call Mr K but 
the call wasnt answered. They would normally send a letter  but this wasnt sent. And 
when they couldnt speak to Mr K, they took the decision to stop the payment. Firstdirect 
said it was the responsibility of customers to monitor their account to ensure that 
transactions were completed.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our investigator noted that the payment may have been 
identified for a fraud check because the payee details couldnt be checked by firstdirect. 
But in any case, it was up to firstdirect whether they checked a payment or not. He said 
firstdirect had made a reasonable attempt to contact Mr K. During our investigation, 
firstdirect offered a compensation payment of £50, which made good Mr Ks loss. Our
investigator felt that was the right amount under the circumstances.
Mr K didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
There is no doubt that firstdirect were entitled to withhold Mr Ks payment for fraud checks. 
Its an unfortunate fact that fraud is increasing among all banks in the UK, and they have 
sophisticated fraud checking systems to prevent this. The criteria for identifying which 
payments are checked are confidential to banks and I cant say why Mr Ks payment was 
withheld for that purpose.
And  firstdirects terms and conditions allow for payments to be withheld if they are 
concerned about a possible fraud. These say We'll make a payment from your account if 
we can but there are some reasons we may not be able to.(if) We reasonably believe 
that certain things have happenedThere's been a breach of security or misuse of your 
account, security details or a payment device...(or) There's been fraudulent or criminal 
activity of any kind. It doesn't matter whether it's linked to your account or your relationship 
with us and it's reasonable for us not to make the payment.
Ive listened to the call that Mr K made to firstdirect to request the payment on 16 
December 2021 at around 15.30  and the call handler said at the end of the call its 
sent and should arrive today, subject to internal checks. So  firstdirect did say there may 
be a check.
Ive listened to the call that Mr K had with firstdirects complaints team  and he accepted 
that such checks are necessary. But he made the point that firstdirects communications 
werent good enough. And here, I agree with him.
Firstdirect called Mr K at 16.12 on 16 December 2021  to confirm the payment with Mr K. 
I suspect that if that call had been completed and Mr K had answered the fraud teams 
questions, the payment wouldve been made. Ive listened to that call and it only lasted a 
few seconds. Someone said hello  it may have been Mr K or firstdirect who said that. Mr 
K says he didnt get a call. But the point is  there wasnt a meaningful call. Firstdirect say 
they normally send a letter when a payment is stopped but didnt on this occasion.
Given that the call essentially failed, I think it wouldve been reasonable for firstdirect to 
try again to call Mr K; or try another method of contacting him, for example by text 
message. But they didnt. And its unfortunate that a letter wasnt sent either  although 
given there wouldve been a delay in Mr K receiving it, it may not have been soon enough 
for him to make the payment again and have the currency sent to him.
Firstdirect said to Mr K that he also had a responsibility to check his account  and thats 
true, but equally, on the call on 16 December 2021  the call handler said that has 
been sent. And she then confirmed Mr Ks balance as it was after the payment had been 
made. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr K to think the payment had been sent.
And so  while firstdirect didnt make any errors here, as they were entitled to make the 
fraud checks  I dont think their communications were reasonable in the circumstances. 
Firstdirect have offered £50 compensation, which makes good Mr Ks loss, but I think they 
should do more. Mr K says he had to travel five miles to buy the currency elsewhere, and 
that caused some expense and inconvenience. Our service says an award between £100 
and £300 might be suitable where there has been an error, requiring a reasonable effort 
to sort out. I think Mr Ks complaint falls into the lower end of this criteria and firstdirect 
should therefore pay a total of £100 for stress and inconvenience.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr K didnt have any comments. Firstdirect accepted my findings.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr K didnt have any comments and firstdirect agreed with the provisional decision, I 
wont be departing from it in making my final decision.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct should:
Pay compensation of £100 for stress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman