DRN-3238395
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society lost a savings account application form 
that her husband handed in to branch staff on her behalf.
What happened
Mrs Fs husband wen into their local Nationwide branch and handed in a savings account 
application form. Mrs F subsequently didnt receive any notification from Nationwide that the 
form had been received and the savings account set up, and when Mrs F contacted 
Nationwide about this it was discovered that the form in question had been lost. 
Nationwide provided Mrs F with a replacement application form, but Mrs F chose not to 
complete this because she was concerned that a breach of data may have occurred and 
wanted to know where the original form was. When Nationwide confirmed that they were 
unable to locate the original form, Mrs F raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mrs Fs complaint. They confirmed that the form had been lost within 
Nationwide and they apologised to Mrs F for this and made payments to Mrs F of £75 to 
compensate her for the upset and inconvenience the matter had caused and £4 to cover the 
cost of telephone calls that Mrs F and her husband had had to make regarding this issue. 
Mrs F wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that 
Nationwide had issued to Mrs Fs complaint  which also included that if Mrs F completed a 
replacement application form that any interest due on the account would be backdated to 
when the original form should have been processed  already represented a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what had taken place. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Mrs F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide dont dispute that the original form given to them in branch by Mrs Fs husband 
has been lost. In circumstances such as this, what this service would expect would be that 
Nationwide would have taken the corrective steps necessary to ensure that Mrs F could 
open the savings account that shed wanted to without being financially disadvantaged by 
Nationwide losing the original application form. It would also be expected by this service that 
Nationwide would have apologised to Mrs F and that they would have offered a fair amount 
of compensation to Mrs F for any distress or difficulty that she may have incurred.
Nationwide appear to have done that here. I say this because its evident that Nationwide did 
provide a replacement savings account application form for Mrs F to complete and return 
and promised to backdate the interest earned on the new savings account to when the 
account should have been opened, had the original form not been lost. And these are 
precisely the corrective steps that I would expect Nationwide to have undertaken here.
Nationwide have also issued an apology to Mrs F for losing the form via their response to 
her complaint, and theyve also made payments of £75 to Mrs F to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience that their losing the original form may have caused her, as well 
as £4 to cover the costs of telephone calls that Mrs F and her husband had to make.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party may not be considered as being such by someone else. However, 
the £75 compensation that Nationwide have already paid to Mrs F here, along with the £4 for 
telephone costs, does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this 
service would expect, given the circumstances.
Mrs F has stated that she feels that Nationwide losing the original form, which included 
personal and financial information, constitutes a breach of data protection regulations. I can 
appreciate Mrs Fs concerns here, but as an informal dispute resolution service, matters of 
data protection regulation fall outside the remit of what this service can consider. The 
relevant regulatory body for such matters is the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
and I can only refer Mrs F to the ICO if she wishes to pursue this aspect of her complaint. 
However, it seems likely that the original form has been misplaced within Nationwide, and 
therefore seems unlikely that the form would have found its way into the wrong hands. It also 
must be remembered that, should it be the case that Mrs F suffers any future difficulties 
resulting from this lost form, this complaint itself provides a record that an account 
application form was lost by Nationwide, which I anticipate would be taken into account.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that Nationwide have already issued 
to Mrs Fs complaint here, including the corrective action and the payments of compensation 
that have been made, already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what has taken 
place. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Nationwide to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs was wanting, but I hope that shell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman