DRN-4103571
The complaint
Ms E is a sole trader. She complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has made a number of errors in 
how it handled her attempts to remove previous business partners from her bank account 
and Bounce Back Loan.
Mr B has also joined the complaint, being a co-signatory to the bank account.
What happened
Ms Es business, which trades under a name that Ill anonymise as L, was previously run 
as a partnership with one other partner, who Ill refer to as Ms G. 
While running as a partnership, L held a business account with Lloyds  with Ms E and Ms G 
being the signatories. The partnership successfully applied to Lloyds for a Bounce Back 
Loan of £15,000 in August 2020, which it later increased to £17,000 with a top-up loan. 
Ms E says that Ms G left the partnership, and that shes made numerous attempts over the 
last couple of years to update the accounts she holds with Lloyds to this effect  but it isnt 
helping her. In summary, she says:
She attempted to remove Ms G from the account so that it was in her sole name, but 
Lloyds didnt action this request. Instead, the bank told her that the quickest way to 
remove Ms G would be to replace her with someone else. 
That led to her adding a second partner, who Ill refer to as Mr B  even though he 
didnt have anything to do with the business. The addition of Mr B to the bank 
account also led to him being held jointly responsible for the Bounce Back Loan. This 
has caused further complications as she now needs to remove Mr B.
She had completed a novation agreement to transfer the Bounce Back Loan into her 
own name as a sole trader. But Lloyds lost her initial set of completed forms  and by 
the time she came to reapply, the bank wasnt allowing novations to proceed.
The difficulty in making these changes hampered her ability to access the Pay As 
You Grow (PAYG) payment support options, particularly a payment holiday, when 
she was unable to afford the loan repayments. This has led to the Bounce Back Loan 
falling into arrears, with those arrears then being recorded on her credit file.
Lloyds has accepted that it hasnt handled things as well as it should have. In its responses 
to Ms Es complaints, it has said:
It received a request from Ms E to remove Ms G from the account in October 2020. It 
couldnt action that request, as it needed Ms E to open a sole trader account instead. 
It tried to speak to her about that, but couldnt reach her. So the request was closed 
down. 
After Mr B replaced Ms G on the account, it subsequently received Ms Es request to 
convert the account to a sole trader account  but the request was overlooked due 
to an internal breakdown in communication. 
It had misplaced the novation paperwork initially, which was subsequently received 
and accepted  but around the same time, it had decided to suspend novations and 
so couldnt proceed with Ms Es request.
There had been delays in responding to Ms Es queries about the PAYG options, 
with matters becoming protracted unnecessarily. But a payment holiday had 
eventually been put in place from November 2021 to April 2022. A repayment plan 
had been set up for the arrears that had accrued beforehand  but Ms E hadnt made 
the agreed monthly payments.
Lloyds has apologised for the difficulties that Ms E has encountered, and paid her a total of 
£350 by way of compensation for the upset and inconvenience this has caused. 
Ms E doesnt think the matter has been fairly resolved. She thinks the loan is in arrears due 
to errors on the banks part, and wants this position to be corrected  including her credit file. 
She also says that Mr B should be removed from the loan as he has nothing to do with the 
business. And she wants further compensation for the time shes had to spend dealing with 
the matter, and the anxiety it has caused her. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint, but thought the steps that Lloyds had 
already taken represented a fair resolution to the matter. As Ms E didnt agree, the complaint 
was passed to me for review. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month, setting out why I thought Lloyds 
needed to do more to put things right and giving both parties the chance to respond with 
anything they wanted me to consider before I made a final decision. I said:
The bank account mandate and the drawdown of the Bounce Back Loan
Its not entirely clear to me when Ms G left the partnership, such that Ms E was 
running the business as a sole trader. But Lloyds records show that Ms E first 
informed the bank of this during a conversation in April 2020. They also show that 
Ms E said shed sent in a form to update the account mandate accordingly  which 
the bank said hadnt been received, and in any event that it would need Ms E to open 
up her own sole trader account instead. Requests for lending were also declined 
around this time, on the basis that the issue of the trading entity would need to be 
resolved before any new facilities could be agreed.
It appears, then, that Lloyds correctly advised Ms E in April 2020 that she would need 
to open a new account for her sole trader business now that Ms G had left the 
partnership. This didnt happen. And I cant see that there was any attempt by Ms E 
to open the requisite account around this time. 
Rather, Ms E submitted what appears to be a second mandate variation request in 
August 2020 with a view to removing Ms G from the account. Lloyds received this, 
but  for the reasons given in April  couldnt process it. The banks records show 
that it attempted to call Ms E to advise her again that she would need to open a new 
account as a sole trader, but it couldnt reach her. The request, therefore, wasnt 
actioned. I should say here that I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in declining these 
requests to vary the account by simply removing Ms G from the mandate. As the 
business was now being run as a different legal entity  as a sole trader, rather than 
a partnership  I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to ask that Ms E open a new 
account. I say this primarily because it would enable the bank to complete the 
various legal and regulatory checks expected of it. 
Ms E says that having not heard from Lloyds, shed assumed the change shed 
requested had been processed. Im not sure that it was reasonable to rely on silence 
as confirmation  the bank may not even have received the paperwork, and it 
wouldve been prudent to check in on things. All the more so, given that shed been 
told just a few months earlier that the request she was now making wouldnt be 
possible, and that shed need her own account. 
The account, then, remained in the name of the partnership when Ms E came to 
apply for the Bounce Back Loan. I cant see that was down to an error on Lloyds 
part. The documentation issued for the loan also named the borrowers as Ms G and 
Ms E, so I think it wouldve been clear to Ms E at this point that Ms G was still 
connected to the business as far as Lloyds was concerned. Ms E went ahead with 
the application on that basis. 
The next record of any contact about the parties named on either facility is January 
2021, when Ms E called Lloyds. The banks notes show that it advised her that the 
variation request made in August 2020 was rejected, and that she would need to 
open a sole trader account. But Ms E submitted a further mandate variation request 
in or around July 2021. This asked that Ms G be removed from the account mandate, 
and be replaced by Mr B. This request was approved. I dont think Lloyds did 
anything wrong here, having carried out Ms Es instruction. 
So taking all of this into account, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in how it 
administered the bank account or Ms Es various requests to make amendments or 
in how it set up the Bounce Back Loan initially.
The variation of the Bounce Back Loan and PAYG requests
Repayments were due to begin on the Bounce Back Loan on 14 September 2021, 
and  knowing that she would find it difficult to pay the required amount  Ms E 
wanted to discuss the PAYG support options. She was in touch with Lloyds on 11 
August 2021 in this regard. Lloydss notes reflect Ms Es recollection of being told 
that she couldnt access the PAYG options until the loan was novated into her sole 
name. 
Lloyds therefore considered arrangements to move the Bounce Back Loan into 
Ms Es sole name. A new sole trader account was opened for her on or around 27 
August 2021. A novation agreement was needed in order to transfer the loan. It isnt 
clear when the bank sent this to Ms E, but the evidence I have suggests that it was 
first sent on 1 September. Notes show that Ms E called the bank to chase things up 
on 22 September, having sent the completed document back on 7 September by 
recorded delivery. But as the bank couldnt find that, a replacement agreement was 
sent to her on 22 September and she returned the completed documents on 24 
September. The bank received this  but then said it couldnt proceed, as it had 
paused novations while considering its approach to such requests.With the novation outstanding, and Ms E having been told that she couldnt utilise the 
PAYG options, the payments that fell due in September and October 2021 were 
missed. I think this was avoidable. Lloyds later implemented a payment holiday under 
PAYG in November  when the novation was still outstanding. I understand Lloyds 
accepts that it misadvised Ms E in this regard and it is evident that she couldve 
accessed the PAYG options when she first approached the bank. While it wouldve 
been preferable to agree the novation first, I dont think Ms E shouldve been left 
without access to the PAYG options when it was evident that this couldnt be 
completed in time.
Had things gone as they shouldve done, the six-month payment holiday wouldve 
been put in place in time for the September 2021 payment and run through to 
February 2022 (with the first repayment then becoming due in March). So Lloyds 
mistakes meant that the loan fell into two months arrears when it shouldnt have 
done.
However, the payment holiday was subsequently agreed  and once it expired, Ms E 
was still unable to make the monthly payments that fell due. Payments continued to 
be missed over the months that followed. So although Lloyds made a mistake that 
led to a delay in setting up the payment holiday, I dont think this has had a material 
impact on things. Unfortunately, it seems that the loan remained unaffordable for 
Ms E even after the payment holiday. And so regardless of when the payment 
holiday was implemented, the loan was always going to end up in the arrears 
position that it is in now.
As a result, I dont think there is any basis on which I could fairly require Lloyds to 
write off these missed payments as Ms E has suggested, or to remove record of 
them from her credit file.
There remains the question of the novation. This has remained outstanding, as 
Lloyds has said the process was paused. But having seen complaints of a similar 
nature regarding the novation of Bounce Back Loans where a departing partner 
needs to be removed, I understand that the novation Ms E was seeking ought now to 
be possible.
It is, however, unclear to me exactly who Lloyds thinks is jointly responsible for the 
Bounce Back Loan alongside Ms E, and why. The loan has remained in the name of 
the business  L. As I understand it, Lloyds considers L to be a separate legal 
entity, and Ms E and Mr B  as partners in L  are therefore jointly and severally 
liable for the debt. But a partnership isnt a separate legal entity. The loan was taken 
out in Ms E and Ms Gs joint names, and Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Ms Gs liability could be transferred to Mr B simply by the account mandate variation. 
I cant see how Mr B could fairly be held liable for a debt without explicitly agreeing to 
it  and Ive not seen that he signed any documentation or was otherwise made 
aware of his responsibility in this respect. 
It seems to me, therefore, that there is no basis on which Lloyds could seek to hold 
Mr B liable for the Bounce Back Loan  or to be corresponding with him in any way 
about it. Rather, it would appear that Ms G remains jointly liable for the loan with 
Ms E  having never been formally removed from it.
Either way, I think there are sufficient grounds to demonstrate that the loan should be 
novated to Ms Es sole name  whether it is Ms G or Mr B who might otherwise be 
held jointly responsible, it is accepted that neither has any involvement in the 
business. And I am not aware of any procedural reason why Lloyds is unable to novate the loan to Ms E now  particularly with the bank having accepted in other 
complaints of a similar nature that it has the ability to do so. 
So to put things right, I think Lloyds should arrange to novate the Bounce Back Loan 
to Ms E in her capacity as a sole trader. Lloyds should confirm within its response to 
my provisional decision whether it considers that it needs Ms G or Mr B to provide 
their consent to this novation. 
I dont think the fact that another partner  whether Ms G or Mr B  has retained 
liability for the Bounce Back Loan has had a material impact on the position that 
Ms E has ultimately found herself in. In the same way as Ive noted above, the loan 
has evidently proved unaffordable and so would always have fallen into arrears as it 
has done  regardless of whether it was in her sole name or not. 
However, it did impair Ms Es ability to access the PAYG options at the time and 
created some additional correspondence  and resulted in further stress and worry  
than might otherwise have been necessary. The banks communication about these 
matters with Ms E has been particularly poor, with incorrect and confusing 
information. Ms E was already going through a difficult time, both personally and 
professionally  and errors on the banks part exacerbated the stress and anxiety she 
was suffering at the time. 
Lloyds has already recognised that its service fell below the standards Ms E was 
entitled to expect, for which it has apologised and paid her compensation of £350. I 
dont think this goes far enough, and feel £600 would better reflect the level of 
distress and inconvenience she was caused. So in addition to arranging to novate 
the Bounce Back Loan into her sole name, Im also intending to require Lloyds to pay 
Ms E a further £250 by way of compensation. 
It is unclear to me if Lloyds has recorded any information about the Bounce Back 
Loan on Mr Bs credit file. But for the reasons noted above, I dont think it had any 
basis on which to do so. And so if it has, I think it should arrange for this to be 
removed.
Ms E initially responded to say that she thought my provisional decision seemed fair, but 
later added that she thought the level of compensation should be much higher in view of the 
amount of time shed spent on the matter  that she estimated at two hours a week for four 
years  and the distress it had caused. She also wanted me to consider whether Mr B ought 
also to be removed from the bank account, which she said shed tried to arrange with Lloyds 
on a number of occasions without any success. There was a debt owing on the overdraft 
facility attached to the account, for which Lloyds was also seeking repayment. 
Lloyds responded to say that the account mandate variation form signed by Mr B notified 
him that he would be considered jointly and severally liable for all liabilities of the 
partnership. So it said Mr B had assumed liability from Ms G for the Bounce Back Loan when 
joining the partnership and becoming an account signatory, and on that basis didnt consider 
it appropriate to remove any references to the Bounce Back Loan from his credit file. But 
while it said its novation process was still paused, it indicated that it would still be willing to 
novate the loan to Ms Es sole trader account subject to receiving authorisation from Mr B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, and with particular regard for the further comments received from both 
parties, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. Ill explain 
why the parties further points havent led me to a different view of the complaint.
Lloyds says that Mr B assumed liability for the Bounce Back Loan by becoming a partner in 
L and becoming an account signatory, highlighting that the mandate variation document he 
signed included an acceptance of joint and several liability for all liabilities of whatever 
nature of the Partnership. This still strikes me as insufficient to arrange the transfer of 
liability for an unspecified amount of debt to someone who is only agreeing to become an 
account signatory. And I still have reservations over whether it was appropriate, given that 
the partnership wasnt a separate legal entity and the Bounce Back Loan explicitly named 
Ms E and Ms G as the borrowers. On top of that, being a signatory and becoming a partner 
are two very different things - and theres very little evidence to suggest that Mr B ever had 
any real involvement in the business other than being added to its bank account  itself a 
step Ms E has described as a means simply of expediting the removal of Ms G. Its notable 
that Mr B isnt described as a partner in the variation form. So I still dont think it is fair, in all 
the circumstances here, to hold Mr B liable for the Bounce Back Loan based solely on his 
agreement to becoming an account signatory.
In any event, Lloyds hasnt objected to the novation of the Bounce Back Loan to Ms E, save 
to say that the process is currently paused, and says it can arrange the transfer as long as it 
receives Mr Bs signed instruction. That will remove Mr B from any ongoing liability for the 
Bounce Back Loan, which I think is appropriate in the circumstances. Lloyds hasnt 
explained what the pause to its novation process means in practical terms, or when this 
might be resumed. So Ive not seen any justification for this to hold up the novation in any 
way, and expect this to be arranged within the usual timeframe for arranging the settlement 
of a complaint if Ms E and Mr B accept my decision.
That does leave the issue, though, of any information that Lloyds has reported to credit 
reference agencies about Mr Bs liability for the Bounce Back Loan. It has declined to say 
whether it has actually registered any such information, but  if it has  doesnt think it would 
be fair to remove this given its view that Mr B accepted liability by signing the mandate 
variation form. But I still dont think it would be fair for any information about the loan to 
remain on Mr Bs credit file, given all Ive said above  in particular, that Mr B didnt take out 
the loan or benefit from it in anyway, and as I dont think he has had any practical 
involvement with the business that did.
Although Ms E was broadly accepting of my provisional decision, she didnt think that the 
compensation Id proposed for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused by these 
matters went far enough. Ive taken into account what shes said, and I appreciate that shes 
spent a lot of time dealing with everything and that its taken its toll on her. But as I set out in 
my provisional decision, I dont think that all of the issues are down to errors on Lloyds part. 
It is only the impact of mistakes by the bank that I can award compensation, and I still think 
that my initial proposal of an additional £250  making a total of £600  is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
Ms E also said that shed attempted to remove Mr B from the bank account without success, 
and asked for my view on that. But Ms Es original complaint related to the Bounce Back 
Loan  with no mention of any attempt to remove Mr B from the account or absolve him of 
liability for the overdraft debt connected to it. None of Lloyds final response letters to Ms Es 
various complaint points noted any such concerns either. So this would need to be 
addressed by way of a separate complaint to the bank in the first instance, which could 
subsequently be referred to us if Ms E and Mr B remain unhappy.Ms E has also said that she would like Lloyds to write off the debts in view of her 
circumstances, noting that she has suffered from ill health and her business has ceased 
trading, of which I was sorry to read. I dont think it would be fair to either party for me to 
address this point at this stage in our process, given again that it was not part of the original 
complaint and as Lloyds hasnt had an opportunity to consider it. It would be more 
appropriate for Ms E to put this request to the bank, so that it can review her circumstances 
and consider what assistance it can offer. I hope that a mutually acceptable way forward can 
be agreed. But should Ms E remain unhappy, that matter too could be escalated  ultimately 
to us if necessary  by way of a separate complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Arrange for the Bounce Back Loan to be novated into Ms Es sole name,
Pay Ms E a further £250 compensation, and
Instruct the removal of any information registered against Mr Bs credit file about the 
Bounce Back Loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman