DRN-3957811
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct 
in relation to a Direct Debit.
What happened
Mr K holds an account with first direct. In mid-July 2022, he called first direct and said he 
wanted to reinstate a Direct Debit which hed recently cancelled. The payee was a business 
which Ill call V. Mr K wanted V to be able to take a final payment on or around 26 July. He 
wanted the Direct Debit to be cancelled after that payment had been collected. 
Mr K found the call with first direct unsatisfactory. He says the agent didnt understand what 
he wanted to do and gave him incorrect information. He asked to speak to a supervisor. The 
supervisor said he would reinstate the Direct Debit and request it to be cancelled after V had 
taken the July payment. He apologised for the inconvenience and the time Mr K had spent 
on the call. He said hed put £25 into Mr Ks account as an apology, which Mr K accepted.
Mr K called again on 31 July to check the status of an unrelated standing order as well as 
the Direct Debit. The agent said the Direct Debit was still live and the last payment had been 
taken in June. Mr K was unhappy about this and asked why the Direct Debit was still there. 
He said it had already been the subject of a complaint and hed received compensation. 
Mr K asked the agent to look at the details of his call with the supervisor. The agent said 
those details would be with the Customer Relations team, who werent available at that time. 
Mr K asked her to look at the transaction on his account on 14 July. The agent asked what 
transaction. Mr K then asked to speak to a supervisor. The supervisor saw that there was a 
credit to Mr Ks account on 14 July. Mr K wanted to log a complaint about the way the 
previous agent had handled the call and the fact they couldnt see this payment. He said he 
also wanted to check whether the Direct Debit had been cancelled and, if not, he wanted 
compensation for that as well. 
When first direct responded to the complaint, it confirmed that the Direct Debit was still in 
place. It said that V hadnt taken the final payment, so the Direct Debit hadnt been 
cancelled. It said it would cancel the Direct Debit once the final payment was taken.
First direct said its Call Centre doesnt have access to complaint notes. It said that any 
queries about complaints have to be referred to Customer Relations. It acknowledged Mr Ks 
comment that the Call Centre ought to be able to see this information. It apologised for the 
frustration he experienced and said his comments had been noted.
Mr K wasnt happy with first directs response and brought the complaint to this service. He 
said hed suffered stress and inconvenience due to its poor service, as well as incurring call 
costs. He said hed had to spend time bringing the complaint to this service as a result. Our 
Investigator didnt think first direct needed to do anything more. But Mr K didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its helpful to start by explaining how Direct Debits work. A Direct Debit is a customers 
authority for an organisation (the payee) to claim a varying amount of money, on a varying 
day, from their account. By setting up the Direct Debit, the customer is instructing their bank 
to allow the payments to be taken. The money is claimed by the payee. The bank allows it to 
be taken, rather than proactively sending it. The bank doesnt have control over the Direct 
Debit payments. 
Here, Mr Ks Direct Debit arrangement was with V. Mr K authorised V to claim a payment 
from his account each month. By setting up the Direct Debit on his first direct account, he 
was instructing first direct to allow the payments to be taken by V. But first direct didnt have 
control over whether or when V claimed the payments.
The purpose of Mr Ks call to first direct in mid-July was to reinstate the Direct Debit to V. Im 
satisfied that first direct did reinstate it and did so on Mr Ks instructions. Mr K said he 
wanted to reinstate the Direct Debit for the July payment and then cancel it. He expected the 
payment to be collected on or around 26 July. When he called first direct on 31 July, the 
payment hadnt been claimed by V. First direct wouldnt have had any control over this.
Im satisfied that the Direct Debit was still active when Mr K called first direct on 31 July, as 
confirmed by the agent during the phone call.
Mr K said that hed had a letter from V asking why hed cancelled the Direct Debit. I havent 
seen the letter and I dont know when exactly it was sent. But its not in dispute that Mr K had 
cancelled the Direct Debit after the June payment and before the July payment was due. I 
find it likely that this is what caused V to write to Mr K. 
I dont know if Mr K contacted V to explain that the Direct Debit had been reinstated. But, if V 
wasnt aware of this, it may not have tried to claim the payment. It was Mr Ks responsibility 
to liaise with V about the payment. It wasnt first directs role to communicate with V about 
the Direct Debit. And first direct wasnt instructed to send a payment to V, only to allow a 
payment to be taken if V claimed it in accordance with the Direct Debit instruction. 
Mr K was unhappy that the Direct Debit hadnt been cancelled when he called on 31 July. 
But I dont think first direct did anything wrong by not cancelling it. Thats because the 
arrangement made between Mr K and the supervisor on the earlier call was that the Direct 
Debit would be cancelled after the July payment had left the account. As that payment hadnt 
left the account, I dont think first direct had cause to cancel the Direct Debit. First direct 
wouldnt have been aware of any contact between V and Mr K about the payment. As far as 
first direct was concerned, Mr K wanted to make one more payment to V and then cancel the 
Direct Debit. As no further payment had been taken by V, first direct hadnt cancelled the 
Direct Debit. I think that was reasonable.
Turning to the call, Mr K is unhappy that the agent couldnt see the compensation payment 
into his account. I think the agent was able to see transactions on Mr Ks account. But I think 
she was confused about what Mr K wanted her to look at. Ive listened to the call. But Ive 
also had the benefit of listening to Mr Ks subsequent conversation with the supervisor and 
reading all the complaint documents. So, I know that Mr K wanted the agent to look at the 
compensation payment into his account. But I dont think that was clear on the call. Mr K had called to find out whether the Direct Debit had been cancelled. He was unhappy 
that it hadnt been. The agent said she could cancel it for him, but Mr K didnt ask her to do 
this. Instead, he told her to look up the record of his last call and see what the outcome was. 
The agent said she couldnt do this. After questioning by Mr K, she said that she didnt have 
access to the notes. The conversation was becoming increasingly difficult by this point. Mr K 
then asked the agent to look at the transaction on 14 July. He didnt say what transaction or 
why he wanted her to look at it. So I can understand why the agent was confused. 
When Mr K spoke to the supervisor, he asked her to look at the transaction on 14 July and 
said it was compensation for the previous complaint. The supervisor said she could see a 
credit of £50 on that date. Mr K asked why the previous agent couldnt see that. My 
understanding is that the previous agent would have been able to see it. But she asked 
questions first to understand why Mr K wanted her to look for a particular transaction. I think 
that was reasonable. Mr K hadnt told her he wanted her to see the compensation. But, even 
if he had, its not clear to me how that would have progressed the phone call or dealt with the 
Direct Debit issue. In any event, I dont find that the payment in on 14 July was the 
compensation. Mr Ks statement shows that was credited on 16 July.
Mr K says that, if he hadnt called first direct on 31 July, he would have suffered a financial 
loss. Im not sure what the loss would have been. Mr K had instructed first direct to reinstate 
the Direct Debit so that V could take payment. If V had taken payment, that would have been 
in line with Mr Ks instructions. And, despite the agent offering to cancel the Direct Debit on 
31 July, Mr K didnt tell her to do so. He raised other issues and the conversation moved on 
without the Direct Debit issue being addressed. I havent seen any evidence of loss here. 
And I cant award compensation for losses which might have arisen.
My understanding is that the Direct Debit may still be live, although V doesnt appear to be 
claiming payments. If thats the case I dont think its unreasonable. The agent offered to 
cancel it on 31 July. And first direct confirmed in its final response letter that the Direct Debit 
was still live.
Mr K is unhappy about the service he received on 31 July. First direct addressed this in its 
final response letter and apologised for any frustration he experienced. I dont think it needs 
to do any more. I find that the agent correctly advised Mr K that the Direct Debit was live. 
She offered to cancel it, but the conversation moved on, as Ive outlined above. Mr K says 
that the agent pretended to refer the call to a supervisor but failed to do so until he insisted. I 
dont find that to be the case. Mr K was passed to a supervisor when he requested it.
Mr K doesnt accept that Customer Relations is the only team which can view the complaints 
system. He says the supervisor could see the compensation payment even though she 
wasnt in Customer Relations. The supervisor was able to look at transactions on Mr Ks 
account. As Ive said, I think the previous agent was also able to see this. But I dont think 
that means they could also see records of complaint discussions or complaint details. So, I 
dont find there to be any contradiction in what first direct has said about this. And, as our 
Investigator explained, the decision about which staff have access to which records is a 
business decision for first direct and not something I can tell it to change.
Mr K says the agent could have suggested passing him to Customer Relations. But she told 
him Customer Relations werent open at the time. The supervisor confirmed this. She said 
shed ask them to contact Mr K as, by that point, hed said he wanted to raise a complaint.
In conclusion, I dont think first direct made a mistake or acted unfairly here. So Im not going 
to ask it to do anything.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman