DRN-3777735
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited administered his motor 
insurance policy. He wants compensation for the upset this caused him. 
What happened
Mr B checked how much the renewal of his policy with Hastings would cost with a different 
address. He inputted his fathers address, as he said he wanted to move to the area, but he 
didnt complete the action. Mr B then called Hastings to confirm a change of car and 
Hastings agent confirmed his address but didnt notice that this was different to that on the 
file. 
Hastings then wrote to Mr B at his fathers address. Mr B said this caused him upset. And 
then Hastings said it wouldnt charge Mr B for correcting the address. Mr B was also upset 
by this as he thought the error was caused by Hastings. Hastings apologised, but Mr B 
wanted compensation. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr B hadnt 
intended to complete a change of address. He thought Mr B hadnt authorised this and 
Hastings had missed the opportunity to correct the error when Mr B called. He thought this 
had caused Mr B avoidable trouble and upset. And he thought Hastings should pay Mr B 
£150 compensation for this. 
Hastings agreed to do this. But Mr B thought Hastings should pay him more compensation. 
Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings has agreed that it changed Mr Bs address without his authorisation and then 
wrongly sent correspondence to a third partys address. And it missed the opportunity to 
correct this error when Mr B called it to confirm his change of car on the policy. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Hastings accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that Mr Bs address was corrected and he wasnt charged for this. And Hastings 
offered Mr B a renewal of his current policy, which Mr B was concerned about. So I think this 
sufficiently restores Mr Bs position to what it should have been without the error. And so Ive 
then looked at the impact the error had on Mr B: 
Mr B should not have initially been told he would be charged for a change of address 
that he did not authorise, which caused Mr B upset. 
Correspondence should not have been incorrectly sent to the wrong address which 
caused family upset. 
Mr B had to take the trouble to have the error corrected and he said his policy renewal 
was initially declined, which worried him. 
From what I can see, Hastings wrote to Mr B at the incorrect address after it wrongly 
changed it on its system. But Mr B didnt complain or seek to have this corrected until three 
months later when his policy was due for renewal. Mr B hasnt explained why he waited so 
long to do this if the error had had such a big impact on his family relationships. Mr B then 
sought to have the address corrected and I think Hastings responded promptly when the 
error was pointed out.  
Our Investigator recommended that Hastings should pay Mr B £150 compensation for its 
level of service. I think thats in keeping with our published guidance for the impact caused 
by the error. And so I think this is fair and reasonable compensation for Hastings error. I 
dont require it to increase this.
Putting things right
I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr B £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman