DRN-3788330
The complaint
Miss M and Mr R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) caused delays 
with their mortgage application. They had to apply elsewhere and during the delay interest 
rates had increased. They ask that first direct waives part of its early repayment charge 
(ERC).
What happened
Mr R had a mortgage with first direct. Mr R intended to sell his property as he and Miss M 
were buying a property together. They took advice from a broker who recommended they 
apply for a joint mortgage with another lender. However, first direct changed its product 
range (to include products that allowed a 10% deposit) and Mr R and Miss M decided to 
make a porting application to first direct. This would have allowed Mr R to avoid paying an 
ERC of about £4,000 to first direct. 
Miss M had recently inherited a property. first direct said its second homes policy applied 
and theyd need a 20% deposit. Mr R and Miss M say first direct should have told them this 
earlier in the process. They say by the time they knew they had to apply elsewhere 
mortgage interest rates had gone up.
Our investigator said while first direct made an error this didnt cause an excessive delay, 
and first direct offered a potential route around the problem. Our investigator said there was 
no certainty Mr R and Miss M would have secured a better deal if first direct had given them 
correct information sooner. first direct said it had removed its credit search from Mr R and 
Miss Ms credit files and paid £200 compensation. Our investigator said this was fair.
Mr R said the outcome would have been different if first direct had given them correct 
information at the outset as theyd have applied for a mortgage elsewhere four weeks earlier 
and would have secured a better interest rate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr R called first direct in mid-March 2022. He said he was in the process of selling his 
property and asked whether it was possible to port his mortgage product. Mr R said hed 
intended to take out a mortgage elsewhere to get a better rate. However, available rates 
were about the same as his current mortgage and he wanted to look into porting to avoid the 
ERC. first direct said hed need a 20% deposit because of the amount of the loan. 
first direct brought out a new product range, including a product with a 10% deposit. It 
contacted Mr R to let him know the new range would be available from 1 April 2022. Mr R 
and Miss M discussed products with first direct and it issued a decision in principle on 4 April 
2022. 
Miss M had recently inherited a property, although the title hadnt yet been transferred into 
her name. On 13 April 2022 first direct told Mr R and Miss M that its second homes policy 
would apply. This meant Miss M and Mr R would need a 20% deposit, which they didnt 
have. first direct accepts it should have told Mr R and Miss M this on 4 April 2022. So I have 
to decide whether its done enough to put matters right. 
first direct gave Mr R and Miss M correct information on 13 April 2022, nine days after it was 
told about Miss M inheriting a property. Mr R and Miss M might have hoped that the second 
homes policy might be waived, but they were aware at this point that it applied. first direct 
confirmed the policy would apply in its final response email on 16 April 2022.
first direct offered a possible solution. It said Mr R and Miss Ms application could proceed if 
they provided a solicitors letter confirming Miss M didnt own the property and it would be 
going up for sale when the family member living there moved out. first direct confirmed this 
in a second final response email on 22 April 2022, which also noted that Mr R and Miss M 
had decided to apply elsewhere.
I think it was fair for first direct to tell Mr R that the application would still be subject to the 
usual checks, such as affordability checks and a valuation of the property they wanted to 
buy. first direct was right to say that even with the solicitors letter, there was no guarantee 
that the application would be successful. It was Mr R and Miss Ms decision not to provide 
the solicitors letter and proceed with the application.
When Mr R repays his mortgage with first direct an ERC is payable. This isnt because of an 
error by first direct. Mr R had taken out a five-year fixed interest rate product with first direct 
in 2018. This included an ERC which is payable if the loan is repaid before mid-2023. Mr R 
agreed to this when he took out the product.
The product Mr R took out could be ported  meaning the ERC wouldnt apply  subject to 
the new mortgage meeting first directs lending criteria. first direct didnt make an error when 
it applied its lending criteria to Mr R and Miss Ms porting application. I dont know if first 
direct would have offered to port the mortgage as Mr R and Miss M didnt continue with the 
application. 
Mr R says if first direct had given them correct information at the outset theyd have carried 
on with the application recommended by the broker. He says due to the delay, the 
recommended product had been withdrawn and they had to apply for a product with a higher 
interest rate. But I dont think I can fairly find that Mr R and Miss M would have secured a 
mortgage with a better interest rate if first direct had given them correct information on 
4 April 2022, rather than 13 April 2022. Mr R hasnt provided evidence to show this would 
have been the case.
I dont think, on balance, the evidence shows Mr R and Miss M suffered financial loss as a 
result of first directs error. I dont think I can fairly require first direct to waive or refund the 
ERC that it is entitled to apply under the mortgage terms and conditions agreed by Mr R. I 
dont think I can fairly require HSBC to pay compensation to Mr R and Miss M for missing 
out on a lower interest rate without evidence they would have secured this but for first 
directs error.
But first directs error did cause Mr R and Miss M upset and inconvenience. first direct says 
the application shouldnt have proceeded, and removed the record of its search from Mr R 
and Miss Ms credit files. It paid £200 compensation for their upset and inconvenience. Ive taken into account that this happened during their sale and purchase, which can be a 
stressful time. And Ive also taken into account that first direct gave them correct information 
within 10 days and offered a solution to allow the application to proceed. In the 
circumstances, I think the steps taken and compensation paid are fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the steps taken and 
compensation paid by HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) are fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman