DRN-3417522
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Santander UK Plc have failed to refund over £89,000 that she lost as 
part of a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
Mrs K came across an investment opportunity on Facebook in November 2019, where she 
read an article about celebrities who had been successful with cryptocurrency investments. 
Mrs K registered for more information and was contacted via phone by an individual from a 
brokerage called LTC Markets (LTC).
Mrs K says LTC emailed her with instructions on how to make an initial investment, and she 
decided to invest a small amount using her credit card after having carried out some 
research into the brokers legitimacy. Mrs K says she checked the FCA website and had 
looked at Trustpilot reviews of LTC, which were positive. She said their website seemed 
professional and legitimate, and during her calls she could hear other sounds in the 
background which sounded like a trading floor. She also asked for a photograph of their 
office and for the advisors credentials, and she received a photograph of an office floor and 
a Blockchain Council certificate in the name of the advisor she was speaking to.
After agreeing to invest, LTC helped her set up a Coinbase account and showed her how it 
worked. She saw that her trades were performing well and was told that she would need to 
invest more to see an acceleration of profits. The individual at LTC began discussing 
different account options available to her, which she was told gave returns of 11% if she 
invested £10,000. LTC also told her that they could give her advice on how to borrow the 
money if she did not have it. 
At this point, Mrs K sought to reassure herself by looking through the Trustpilot reviews 
again, but they had disappeared. She raised this with LTC who said it was because they had 
been asked to pay a fee which theyd refused, so the reviews were taken down. Mrs K was 
reassured and then proceeded to obtain a £10,000 loan with Hitachi with the help of LTC. 
Mrs K said that at this stage she felt nervous and asked if she could speak with another of 
LTCs clients. The broker agreed and she spoke to someone on 28 November 2019 who 
said he had successfully invested with LTC and recommended their services. Following this 
chat, Mrs K felt reassured and decided to invest the £10,000 loan proceeds. 
 
Mrs K subsequently received a return of £800 on 5 December 2019, following which LTC 
convinced her to take out two further loans of £25,000 each with the Post Office and Tesco, 
where they coached her with the correct things to say whilst applying for the loan to give her 
the best chances of being accepted. Her loans were approved, and she paid the money to 
LTC in December 2019, who said they would be investing it into a bond. Mrs K later received 
further returns in the form of a £1,500 credit into her Coinbase account.
LTC subsequently started to discuss Mrs K paying taxes on her returns, as she was told they 
were all tax deductible. Mrs K said she checked government guidance regarding paying tax 
on crypto investments which confirmed that tax would be payable. She also checked other 
online guidance which said the tax would be due at pay-out, which was in line with what LTC 
were telling her. Mrs K therefore sought further funds in order to pay the tax LTC said was 
due, which they said had to be done via her LTC account through Blockchain. 
Following this, Mrs K was under the impression her money would be released. However, 
LTC then told her that they wouldnt release the money until she had paid their commission, 
at which point she realised she had been scammed and contacted Santander to report it on 
30 January 2020. 
Between the period of 13 November 2019 and 22 January 2020, Mrs K made the following 
payments from her Santander account to the crypto investment scam:
Date Merchant Amount
13 November 2019 Coinbase £2
14 November 2019 Coinbase £2
28 November 2019 Coinbase £10,000
11 December 2019 Coinbase £25,000
20 December 2019 Coinbase £23,500
14 January 2020 Coinbase £9,000
14 January 2020 Coinbase £465
15 January 2020 Coinbase £1,048
15 January 2020 Coinbase £3,000
17 January 2020 Coinbase £1,400
17 January 2020 Coinbase £8,033
20 January 2020 Coinbase £1,230
20 January 2020 Coinbase £1,230
22 January 2020 Payward (Kraken) £1,630
22 January 2020 Coinbase £3,497
Total £89,037
Santander investigated but refused to refund the payments Mrs K had made. It said that she 
had authorised the payments and that it had processed them in line with her instructions. 
Santander said it had provided warnings to Mrs K when she was making the payments, but it 
said she had chosen the incorrect option. It had also called her before releasing the funds on 
20 December 2019 to discuss the purpose of the payment, where she said she was happy 
for it to be released.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought that Santander ought to have intervened 
when Mrs K attempted to make a payment of £10,000 on 28 November 2019. Had it done 
so, he thought it likely the bank would have uncovered the scam, thereby preventing her 
loss. So the investigator recommended that all the payments she made from this point 
onwards be refunded. As Mrs K had also taken out two other loans, the investigator thought 
it would also be fair and reasonable for Santander to reimburse Mrs K the interest and 
charges attached to them, given that she would not have taken them out if the bank had 
intervened on 28 November 2020. Santander disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me 
to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. I said I was minded to 
reach a different outcome to the investigator as I didnt intend upholding it, and set out the 
following reasons:
It is common ground that Mrs K authorised the payments she made in 2019, even 
though she was duped into making them by LTC as part of a sophisticated scam. 
She used her security credentials to request the transfers online to be made to Coinbase and, in broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected 
to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And under the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017, Mrs K is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I 
consider that Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In the context of this scam, Mrs K transferred funds from her Santander account to a 
cryptocurrency exchange (Coinbase) account, which she says she was in control of 
in tandem with the scammers. Once she had transferred money into her Coinbase 
account and converted it to cryptocurrency, it was then transferred on to the 
scammers wallet.
I appreciate that Mrs Ks loss didnt materialise directly from her Santander account 
in these circumstances. But even though she was transferring funds to crypto 
accounts in her own name, I still consider that Santander ought to have taken a 
closer look at the payments she was making  given the significant risk of fraud 
associated with cryptocurrency investments at the time.
The FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-
2018. And by January 2019, cryptocurrency scams continued to increase in 
frequency. So, by the time Mrs K started making her investments in November 2019, 
I think Santander ought reasonably to have had a good enough understanding of 
how crypto scams works  including the fact that their customer often moves money 
to an account in their own name before moving it on again to the fraudster. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Santander shouldve had mechanisms in place to detect 
and prevent this type of fraud at the time Mrs K was making her payments, and that it 
should have led to it intervening in order to ask further questions about the payments 
(as indeed it eventually did).
In terms of whether Santander should have done more to identify Mrs Ks 
transactions as potentially being fraudulent, it is common ground that there were 
fraud triggers in this case because Santander did in fact intervene when it prevented 
a payment of £23,500 from being made on 20 December 2019. It is therefore 
arguable that Santander should have intervened earlier (such as when Mrs K made 
the £10,000 payment on 28 November 2019, for example). However, even if Santander had intervened sooner, I still dont think any such intervention would have 
likely made any difference or have ultimately prevented Mrs K from falling victim to 
the scam. 
When Santander spoke to Mrs K on 20 December 2019, it asked her about the 
purpose of the payment, to which she responded that it was for a service. This was 
also the option Mrs K chose on her online banking (rather than investment), which 
she says was because she considered Coinbase to be a service for converting 
money to cryptocurrency. Santander didnt probe any further into what the service 
was that Mrs K was paying for, so I do not think its intervention went far enough in 
the circumstances, particularly as it ought reasonably to have known what a payment 
to CB Payments likely entailed, which would not have been for a service. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call Mrs K had with Santander on 20 December 
2019, and it did not seem as though she was willing to divulge any information other 
than the fact that she was paying for a service. Our investigator has asked Mrs K if 
she was coached by the scammers on what to say if questioned by her bank, to 
which she said, not exactly. It isnt clear what is meant by this, but I note that she 
was coached by the scammers to lie to other banks about the purposes of her loans. 
So, it doesnt seem unlikely that she wouldve also been unforthcoming about the 
true purpose of the payment if questioned further by Santander, given her willingness 
to not be truthful to other financial institutions in order to obtain finance for the 
investment. 
However, I appreciate that Santander didnt give Mrs K the opportunity to provide 
more context about the payment she was attempting to make because it failed to ask 
any further questions. But having considered all the circumstances of this scam, Im 
not persuaded that any further questions or warnings from Santander would have 
ultimately prevented her from making the payments to Coinbase and thereafter to 
LTC. Ill explain why.
Mrs K has explained that she carried out a number of her own checks to reassure 
herself that LTC was legitimate before deciding to invest. She has explained that she 
was nervous about the prospect of investing and asked to see pictures of the 
brokers trading floor, as well as the credentials of the individual she was speaking to. 
LTC provided her with a photo of what they said was their office, and also sent her a 
certificate from the Blockchain Council certifying the person she was speaking to. 
Mrs K says she was also reassured by background noises she heard over the phone 
while talking to LTC, which sounded like a busy trading floor. 
Mrs K said she also researched LTC online by checking Trustpilot reviews. When the 
reviews were taken down, she got in contact with the scammer to find out why, at 
which point they told her it was because they were not willing to pay Trustpilots fee 
for the reviews to remain in place, which she was reassured by. Mrs K also asked to 
speak to one of LTCs clients to see that there were in fact other people investing 
their money and receiving a return. LTC then put her in contact with a fake client, 
which further reassured her that she was dealing with a legitimate broker. Most 
notably, Mrs K also said she checked the FCAs website. This would have shown her 
that no warnings had been issued by the regulator about LTC at the time, but it 
wouldve also demonstrated that LTC were not regulated, which she says she was 
aware of. So, Mrs K would have known that she was entering into an investment with 
a broker that wasnt regulated, and that she wouldnt get any of the protections she 
wouldve otherwise received if she were dealing with a regulated business in the UK. So, if Santander had probed further into the nature of the payment, established she 
was dealing with a broker, and issued a scam warning on the basis that LTC were 
not regulated, I do not think this would have stopped Mrs K from making the payment 
to Coinbase, as she was already aware that LTC were not regulated and was happy 
to do business with them on that basis. She had also carried out a considerable level 
of due diligence beforehand to reassure herself that she was dealing with a legitimate 
company. 
Therefore, I do not think Santander telling Mrs K to carry out any further checks 
would have likely revealed the scam, as she had already reassured herself with the 
significant checks shed carried out. I also note that Mrs K didnt question why she 
was having to be coached by the scammers on what to say in order to take out a 
loan, and that it didnt strike her as odd that she was having to lie to a regulated 
financial institution in order to obtain finance for her investment (as she told them the 
purpose of the loans was for home improvement). This further speaks to the level of 
sophistication of this scam, which it seems Mrs K was so drawn into that any warning 
the bank might have given her wouldve likely made little difference, given that she 
wasnt even concerned that she was having to deceive lenders in order to obtain 
finance.  
As a result, I do not consider that Santanders lack of intervention can be described 
as the proximate (i.e. the dominant and effective) cause of Mrs Ks loss in these 
circumstances, as the loss wouldve still most likely materialised but for any 
intervention. 
I sympathise with the position Mrs K is in, and I understand how upsetting it must be 
for her to have lost her money to such a cruel and devious scam. But in the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that Santander can fairly or reasonably be held 
liable to refund the money she has lost. I appreciate this will likely come as a 
disappointment to Mrs K, but I do not intend asking the bank to take any action. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Santander didnt have anything 
else to add, but Mrs K put forwards further submissions for consideration. In summary:
She was told that cryptocurrency is not regulated in the UK, which she understood 
would mean that LTC would also not be regulated.
She looked for as much information on LTC as she could find, but if Santander had 
alerted her to more information on how crypto scams worked, she would have taken 
notice and questioned the bank about it in more detail. 
She was not advised to lie to the finance companies and was looking to undertake 
renovations on her home with the returns she thought she would receive from the 
investment, which was why she chose this option on the loan application forms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into consideration the submissions Mrs K has made in response to my 
provisional decision. But having done so, it has not changed the conclusions I reached 
previously.
Mrs K has said she was not advised to lie to the finance companies and was looking to undertake renovations on her home with her investment returns, which was why she chose 
that option when applying for the finance. But while I appreciate she may have wanted to 
undertake renovations on her home with the returns she thought she would receive from her 
investment, it doesnt explain why she said this was the purpose for her borrowing, which 
was purely for use to invest in cryptocurrency. I understand she may not have explicitly been 
told to lie to the finance companies. But Mrs K has said that she was coached by LTC on the 
correct things to say in order to give her the best chance of obtaining the loans, so I still think 
this ought reasonably to have struck her as odd.
Mrs K has said that she would have asked the bank more questions if it had alerted her to 
how cryptocurrency scams worked. However, as I set out in my provisional decision, Im not 
convinced this would have ultimately led to her discovering that LTC was a scammer. For 
example, if Santander had warned Mrs K that the broker was not regulated, this seemingly 
wouldnt have struck her as unusual because she already knew that cryptocurrency (and, as 
a result, LTC) were not regulated. And she said she had already checked the FCA website 
for information. 
Santander wouldn't have known for sure that the company Mrs K was dealing with were 
scammers, and there were no warnings placed on either IOSCO or the FCA website at the 
time either. The bank could have only warned her that it might be a scam, and that she 
should therefore carry out further checks into who she was investing with. But as I set out in 
my provisional decision, Mrs K had already carried out a considerable amount of checks and 
due diligence into LTC to satisfy herself of the broker's legitimacy. So, I still don't think there 
was anything further she could have reasonably unearthed that would have made her realise 
she was being scammed.
Overall, Im still not satisfied that any intervention by Santander would have likely made any 
difference or have ultimately prevented Mrs K from falling victim to the scam in these 
circumstances, so I do not consider it can fairly or reasonably be held liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman