DRN-3030943
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Mr H says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (which includes Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions) 
arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Tescos subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit sharing, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Tesco should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
I see we still have access to the agreement Mr H signed when he applied for his new card. 
There was a section on the agreement which invited him to choose if he did  or he didnt  
want PPI with the new card he was applying for. He selected the yes option by ticking. So 
this demonstrates to me that he wanted this type of protective cover and I think Tesco 
properly obtained his consent.
I note this was a postal application and therefore not an advised sale. This means Tesco 
didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable for him, the decision about buying the PPI 
cover was for Mr H to make and he would have made his way through the postal application 
in his own time without any intervention from Tesco. 
My experience of these types of sale is that the application was part of a wider leaflet-based 
form which would have also included some brief details about the policy.  Nevertheless, its 
certainly possible the information Tesco gave to Mr H about the PPI wasnt quite as clear as 
it should have been and Ive given a lot of thought to this area. 
However, the cover wasnt too dissimilar, in my view, to what Mr H reasonably thought he 
was buying from the information he was likely given at the point of sale. I therefore dont 
think Mr H would have declined the policy, even if Tesco could have done a better job at 
explaining things. He was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. 
The PPI would also have paid out 10% of Mr Hs outstanding credit card balance for up to a 
year if hed needed to claim. This would have been in addition to any other means he had at 
that time. Mr Hs representative told us about his medical history in the context of any pre-
existing medical conditions that might have affected his ability to successfully claim on the 
policy. But the information provided wasnt detailed and it also related to an injury apparently 
from the 1960s; decades before the sale. Im afraid I dont consider this to be relevant.
The representative also said Mr H would have had what appears to me to be exceptionally 
generous sick pay with his job. It provided no evidence of this, however, and I dont think Mr 
H would have received the amount of sick pay claimed as we see only a few professions 
where employees have over 12 months sick pay at the full rate. I also thought about what 
was said about Mr H having death in service protection. However, this covers different 
things to the PPI policy and so having both doesnt mean there is a conflict. 
Its possible there were certain additional rules about claiming for mental health or back 
problems on the PPI. But I dont think Mr H would have expected to claim for these without 
providing at least some evidence, which is what the rules probably required. I havent been 
made aware that these issues were relevant to Mr Hs situation.
Overall, I think this policy was of use to Mr H.
Mr Hs representative also raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it 
says apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Tesco should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance 
of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought about these and how they might apply in Mr Hs particular case. But these points 
dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Tesco doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Tesco should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Tescos offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Tesco didnt tell Mr H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Tesco and Mr H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Tesco didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Tesco acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr H should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: Tesco failed to tell Mr H about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipconsumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr H in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Tesco not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Tescos failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Tesco to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr H paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Mr H with the policy Ive concluded above he 
would still have taken out if Tesco had done everything it should have done  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Tescos subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Hs 
complaint or make any award in favour of him for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). The evidence Ive seen suggests an offer was previously made in this regard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman