DRN-1618150
The complaint
Mr S complains about the amount offered by U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") for the value of 
his car after he claimed on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S's car was damaged in an accident seven days after he bought it. UKI said because of 
the amount of damage it wouldn't repair his car but would offer Mr S a cash payment. 
Following an inspection of the car UKI offered Mr S £13,000. 
Mr S didn't think that was enough and his car was worth a lot more, especially as he'd paid 
£16,500 for it only a week earlier. After reviewing the matter UKI increased it's offered to 
£13,776. Mr S still thought the amount offered was too low, so he brought his complaint to 
this service.  In doing so he provided evidence in the form of adverts to show that he couldn't 
purchase a similar car for the amount offered by UKI. 
Our investigator looked at the case and thought it should be upheld. He said that after 
looking at the motor trade guides and the evidence Mr S had provided he thought a fairer 
value of the vehicle would be £15,727.
UKI didn't agree, but did offer to increase the amount to £14,304 saying this was an average 
of the motor trade guide values. Mr S still didn't think the amount was enough so the case 
has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will be upholding Mr S's complaint. I'll explain why.
The policy terms say that where Mr S's car is damaged as a result of an accident, UKI will 
either pay for it to be repaired or pay a cash sum representing no more than the market 
value of the car.
Because there was significant damage to the structure of the car, UKI offered Mr S a cash 
sum. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. But what I need to decide is what a 
fair payment would be. 
Valuing cars isn't an exact science and generally I would find the valuations given in motor 
trade guides, rather than adverts, to be the most persuasive. This is because they are based 
on research of likely selling prices, using advertised prices and auction prices to work out 
what the likely selling prices would be. However, i have to consider the circumstances of 
each case when making my decision.
In this case, I'm mindful of the very short time between Mr S purchasing the car and the 
accident. I'm also conscious that it appears to be a relatively sought after car that looks to attract a premium price. And, I think it's likely there would be little negotiation around a 
purchase price because of this.
The motor trade guides give valuations of £13,000, £14,184 and £15,727.
Mr S purchased the car for £16,500, even if I accept the purchase price was inflated slightly, 
it's arguable the market value of the car seven days earlier was around £16,000. Mr S has 
also provided many adverts for similar cars and the investigator also did his own research 
which supports that it would be highly unlikely a replacement car of a similar specification 
could be purchased for the valuation offered by UKI (£14,304). Generally the research 
supports a similar car would be priced in the region of the highest motor trade guide price.
Putting things right
Having reviewed all of the evidence, I think the highest guide price more accurately reflects 
the market value of the vehicle. I think UKI should therefore pay Mr S £15,727 for his car, 
less any excess and amounts already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr S 
£15,727 - less any excess due and amounts already paid.
UK Insurance Limited should add interest on amount it pays to Mr S at a rate of 8% simple 
per annum. (If UK Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman