DRN-2583299
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Vitality Corporate Services Limited (Vitality) declined her claim on her 
life and serious illness policy, cancelled her policy from the start and refunded the premiums. 
She was also unhappy with the way Vitality handled her claim.
What happened
In 2014 Mrs M applied for 20-year level term life and serious illness cover with The 
Prudential Health Services Limited, which later changed its name to Vitality Corporate 
Services Limited. She did so via an independent broker. The policy she applied for included 
up to £50,000 worth of cover for serious illnesses. This was accepted and cover started in 
September 2014.
Sadly, in 2018 Mrs M was diagnosed with breast cancer. So, in September 2018 she 
submitted a claim.
To help its assessment of the claim Vitality requested information from Mrs Ms treating 
specialist. This showed Mrs M was also being treated for a liver condition, nonspecific 
cholangiopathy, and that shed had abnormal results relating to blood tests, specifically liver 
function tests (LFTs), over the course of several years. Vitality requested further information 
about the liver condition and then asked for records from her GP. Based on the evidence 
gathered, Vitality said there were aspects of Mrs Ms medical history which it felt she ought 
to have told it about when she applied for the policy. This included issues with her liver, 
mental ill-health, a knee complaint and urticaria (a skin condition).
In April 2019 Vitality wrote to Mrs M to try to understand why she hadnt disclosed this 
information. Mrs M provided information about each of the issues identified. One of the 
points she highlighted was that shed told the broker about the abnormal LFTs when shed 
completed the application  so she didnt understand why Vitality wasnt aware of this. 
After reviewing things, Vitality decided Mrs M had misrepresented her circumstances by 
failing to share this history in the application form. It declined the claim, avoided her policy 
(cancelled the policy from the start) and refunded the premiums.
Mrs M was unhappy and asked for the decision to be reviewed. Following the review, Vitality 
advised it had accepted her explanation in relation to the lack of disclosure for the knee 
complaint and mental ill-health. But it maintained its decision to avoid the policy on the basis 
of misrepresentation relating to the abnormal LFTs and urticaria. It said this was a careless 
misrepresentation, but had it known the information it ought to have, it wouldnt have offered 
cover at that time. 
Mrs M raised a complaint against the broker for failing to pass on the information shed given 
about her liver function tests. This was upheld and so Mrs M then asked Vitality to review its 
decision. Vitality would not as it said Mrs M had the opportunity to check her answers when 
the application questions were later sent to her directly. Vitality maintained its claims 
decision.
Mrs M complained. As well as being unhappy with the decline of the claim and the 
avoidance of her policy, Mrs M also complained about Vitalitys handling of her claim. 
This included the time taken and the amount of medical information requested. Mrs M felt 
Vitality had been underhanded and it was trying to avoid paying her claim  she noted there 
was no link between her breast cancer and any of the conditions Vitality was raising. 
Vitality didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. So, Mrs M brought both of her complaints to our 
service. Mrs M told us Vitalitys actions had caused her significant stress and anxiety at a 
time where she was undergoing chemotherapy. She explained she had been unable to work 
due to her illness and so had also struggled financially. 
Our investigator looked into things and was ultimately of the opinion that Vitalitys refusal of 
the claim and the avoidance of the policy was fair. They also didnt think Vitality had acted 
unreasonably in its handling of the claim.
Mrs M didnt agree so the matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read about Mrs Ms health and the difficulties shes faced over recent years. 
Having read what shes told Vitality and our service, I can see that shes found it incredibly 
draining to deal with her claim and the subsequent complaint, alongside managing her 
treatment.
Im aware Mrs M has also complained about the actions of the broker. But that is being 
looked into as part of a separate complaint. So, I dont intend to comment on this further 
here. In this decision I will only consider the actions of Vitality. 
Id also like to clarify that I wont be addressing each and every comment made by Mrs M or 
Vitality. I mean no discourtesy by this and Id like to reassure both parties that Ive 
considered all the comments and medical evidence theyve provided to our service as part of 
this complaint. But Ill only address what I see to be the key issues.
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the industry 
guidance that was in place at the time Vitality made its decision. This is called, 
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims 
For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products 
April 2013. I will refer to this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If the 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately, it sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application were clear and specific and 
whether an agent (ie. a broker or advisor) was acting for the consumer. The code also says 
consideration should also be given as to whether the customer had the opportunity to check 
their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately prominent.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless or careless. Where a misrepresentation is careless, for an insurer to avoid the policy and return the 
premiums, CIDRA says the misrepresentation/s would have to have resulted in the 
application being declined. If the insurer would have charged a higher premium, CIDRA 
states it should then proportionately settle the claim. 
As an aside, I note that Mrs M thinks its unfair Vitality is now relying on past medical issues 
to decline her claim, even though these issues have no connection to the illness thats shes 
claiming for. But Id like to stress this connection, or lack thereof, isnt a relevant 
consideration here. What I need to look at is whether a misrepresentation occurred and, if 
so, what Vitalitys underwriting decision would have been had the relevant information been 
given at the point of application. What matters here is whether the information would have 
impacted the terms Vitality offered, not whether these medical issues are in any way linked 
to the breast cancer thats given rise to her claim. 
Vitalitys claim handling
Im aware Mrs M was unhappy with the time taken for Vitality to assess the claim and the 
medical information it requested in order to assist this. I dont intend to repeat details of the 
claim timeline as this information is familiar to both parties. But Ive looked carefully at the 
progression of the claim, the information that was requested, when and why this was done. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that Vitality has acted reasonably in its claim handling. 
I do appreciate it must have been incredibly frustrating for Mrs M to wait so long to get an 
answer about her claim. But the delays to the medical reports were outside of Vitalitys 
control. I think Vitality reviewed the material it did receive within reasonable timeframes and 
it chased updates from the relevant medical practitioners where appropriate.
I know Mrs M was concerned by the number and scope of Vitalitys requests. In particular, 
she felt Vitality had said it wouldnt request further information at one stage, but it then did. 
Ultimately, having looked at the requests Vitality made, I dont think these were 
unreasonable. I agree that the later requests didnt have anything to do with the condition 
Mrs M was claiming for. But Vitality is entitled to request additional medical information not 
only to assess the claim itself, but to look into potential misrepresentations where it has 
reasonable concerns.
Vitality received information indicating Mrs M had had problems with her liver for a number of 
years. I appreciate Mrs M was then open with Vitality about this when it was processing her 
claim. But given it was concerned this ought to have been disclosed earlier, I think it was fair 
that Vitality sought to review the original medical notes and wasnt reliant on Mrs Ms 
account of things. Vitality then asked Mrs Ms GP about medical information linked to the 
questions it had concerns about. This revealed further information that it felt was declarable 
under the application questions asked. Whilst I can see why this felt to Mrs M like Vitality 
was simply trying to find a reason not to pay the claim, I dont think the request itself was 
unreasonable. In line with what Id expect, Vitality then sought Mrs Ms account about why 
she answered no to these questions before reaching its decision on the misrepresentations 
and the claim.
So overall, I think Vitality handled the claim appropriately.
Ill now look at the two key misrepresentation issues in turn. Liver condition
Mrs M has repeatedly stressed that she told her broker about her abnormal LFTs. And given 
this, I can understand why she feels its unfair Vitality has said she failed to take reasonable 
care. But having considered things, I think Vitality can fairly rely on the answers included in 
the application form when assessing whether Mrs M took reasonable care  Ill explain why.
The code states that whether an intermediary is involved is one of the relevant factors to 
consider when deciding if a consumer has failed to take reasonable care. But the code also 
states:
If the intermediary was clearly acting on behalf of the customerthe intermediary (as 
opposed to the insurer) should be accountable for any misrepresentation resulting directly 
from the intermediarys action or omission.
Here Im satisfied the broker was acting on Mrs Ms behalf and not Vitalitys. And I think 
Vitality can fairly rely on the information given to it by Mrs Ms agent, providing it followed its 
own procedures and gave Mrs M the opportunity to check her answers, explaining the 
importance of this. 
Vitality has shown that after the application was submitted, it wrote to Mrs M directly and 
provided a copy of the confirmation schedule which included the questions and answers 
submitted as part of her application. The covering letter Vitality sent explained the schedule 
forms part of the basis of the agreement between you and PruProtect [Vitality]You have 
agreed that we can rely on the accuracy and completeness of the information it contains... 
It then advised:
WHAT YOU NEED TO DO NOW
If you are happy that the information in the Confirmation Schedule is complete and correct 
you do not need to do anything furtherIf you need to advise us of any changes or errors, 
please complete Section 2 at the end of this Schedule and return this to us by fax, or email 
or in the enclosed reply paid envelope
Under the title of the confirmation schedule it included a line which stated:
These are your application details, please check them carefully
Given this, Im also satisfied that Mrs M was given direct access to her application, the 
questions asked and her answers by Vitality. And it was clear from the paperwork that she 
needed to ensure the answers were correct. 
I appreciate Mrs M feels Vitality should have looked into what she disclosed to her broker 
and taken this into account when assessing her claim. But I wouldnt expect Vitality to be 
responsible for any errors made by a broker that wasnt acting on its behalf. So if Mrs M is 
unhappy with the information given to Vitality, this is a complaint that needs to be considered 
against the broker  not Vitality.
Ive then considered the questions Mrs M was asked that Vitality identified as relevant to her 
liver. These are: 
Your health in the last 5 years
Apart from any condition you have already told us about, have you had any of 
the following in the last 5 years: Any disorder of the digestive system, liver, stomach, oesophagus, pancreas, colon or 
bowel, including Gastric ulcer, Hepatitis, Pancreatitis, Colitis or Crohns disease.
Recent and Current Health
For the remaining questions please see the list of minor conditions and 
treatments that can be ignored.
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, within the last 2 
years have you undergone any investigation such as blood tests, scans or biopsies? 
If so, for what condition (or suspected condition)?
The application form sent to Vitality and shared with Mrs M showed an answer of no to both 
questions.
The medical records show that Mrs M had had LFTs with abnormal results on multiple 
occasions between 2010 and 2013. Mrs M was also sent for an ultrasound on her liver 
during this time, but no abnormality was noted. Mrs M didnt receive any treatment for her 
liver or the raised LFTs and I cant see that any other tests or investigations were requested 
prior to her application. 
Considering the first question, I dont believe Vitality can fairly say Mrs Ms answer was a 
misrepresentation. She was asked if shed had any disorder of the liver in the last five years. 
And I dont think a reasonable consumer would understand abnormal test results alone to 
constitute a disorder of the liver. LFTs are an indicator of possible liver problems, but Mrs M 
had been told her liver was normal. I appreciate no cause for the abnormal results had been 
found, but there was also no diagnosed condition, no treatment given and no outstanding 
investigations at the point of application. In these circumstances, I dont think Vitality can 
fairly say Mrs M failed to take reasonable care by not answering yes here. 
Moving to the second question. At the point of application, in the last two years Mrs M had 
had three rounds of blood tests. In 2012 general blood tests were carried out after Mrs M 
reported symptoms of backache. The LFT results were abnormal and repeat LFTs were 
requested which she had in early 2013. The results were abnormal again and at this stage 
the ultrasound was conducted to check on her liver. This revealed no concerns and no 
further treatment or investigations appear to have been discussed. In late 2013 Mrs M then 
had bloods taken as part of routine pregnancy checks. All of these tests fell within the 
timescales outlined in the question.
Looking at the question and thinking about the list of minor conditions and treatments 
Vitality made available as part of the application, its clear routine blood tests when pregnant 
didnt need to be declared under this question. Whilst Mrs M didnt have access to this list 
when she checked her answers, I think a reasonable consumer might think routine blood 
tests need not be declared here. But as Vitality has highlighted, Mrs M wasnt pregnant for 
all of the LFTs she had. The tests in late 2012 and early 2013 were requested for other 
reasons, at a time she was not pregnant, and this led to the ultrasound scan which was 
investigating if Mrs M had a problem with her liver. I appreciate the results showed she did 
not, but the question doesnt ask if the investigations found anything. And so I think a 
reasonable consumer, in Mrs Ms circumstances ought to have known to answer yes to this 
question given shed had tests and a scan that were not routine. 
I have thought about the fact Mrs M has stressed that it takes a long time for the body to 
recover from pregnancy. One of her children was born in 2011, so Mrs M has said her body 
was still recovering in 2012 when her abnormal LFTs continued. But I havent seen any 
evidence to show the 2012 and early 2013 tests, nor the abnormal LFT results, were a 
consequence of her earlier pregnancy. Its clear the abnormal LFTs were identified as part of the blood tests she had during her earlier pregnancy. But the GP records indicate these 
further tests were requested for other reasons. Theres nothing within the medical records to 
suggest doctors suspected or advised Mrs M the earlier pregnancy was the cause of her 
continued abnormal LFTs in 2012 and early 2013. So, I dont think these LFTs tests or the 
scan can fairly be considered routine tests linked to pregnancy.
For all of these reasons, I think its fair that Vitality has said there was a misrepresentation 
here. 
Urticaria
The two questions Vitality identified as relevant here were:
 
Your health in the last 5 years
Apart from any condition you have already told us about, within the last 5 
years have you:
Had any disease of the skin, including psoriasis or dermatitis.
Recent and Current Health
For the remaining questions please see the list of minor conditions and 
treatments that can be ignored.
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, within the last 2 
years have you had any medical condition, illness or injury that you have received 
treatment for, over a continuous period of 2 weeks or more?
Mrs M answered no to both questions. Mrs M has said she didnt think that she needed to 
disclose her urticaria when applying for the policy. 
The medical records show Mrs M had a long-standing history of dry skin problems and also 
of allergies - of note are the following entries on her GP records:
In December 2011 and February 2012, she was recorded as having attended the 
doctors for dry skin on her hands and was given an ointment and creams.  
In March 2012 she attended the GP with seasonal allergic rhinitis, which is an 
inflammation of the nose, and she was given antihistamines. She attended again for 
hay fever and antihistamines in May and July 2012.
In November 2013 and January 2014, she attended the GP again and this is referred 
to as dry skin once more but the same treatment cream she was previously 
prescribed is discussed.
In July 2014 she attends again for seasonal allergic rhinitis and the notes explain 
Mrs M was having urticaria which is coming back and would like some 
antihistamines again. She was prescribed antihistamines.
After the policy begun there are then some further entries about this:
A visit in mid-October 2014 noted Mrs M has a 10-year history of on and off urticaria 
with no known triggers and that requires antihistamines. The doctor stated they were 
unsure if this was related to her liver problem. 
There is a further visit in late October 2014 which says History: persistent urticaria, 
nothing suspicious which is thought to be a cause. Diagnosis: probably Chronic 
idiopathic urticaria. Mrs M is prescribed antihistamines and a cream across the two visits.
In November 2014 Mrs M then attended the GP again for her urticaria and was 
referred to a dermatologist, a skin specialist, for further investigation. The entry noted 
she was still awaiting LFT results from bloods taken the day before.
In the first question outlined above, Vitality asked whether Mrs M had any disease of the 
skin. So, Ive thought about whether Mrs Ms urticaria ought reasonably to have been 
considered a disease. 
Mrs M said that urticaria is an allergic reaction not a disease and she understood this was 
linked to her hay fever. Im persuaded by Mrs Ms account that she considered her urticaria 
to be an allergic reaction for a number of reasons. The NHS website states urticaria is also 
called hives and it explains that the GP may treat this with creams, stronger antihistamines 
or steroid tablets. Prior to completing her Vitality application, Mrs Ms urticaria was clearly 
being treated as an allergic reaction by the doctors and shed also had no referrals or further 
investigations. The GP entry in July 2014 also suggests a link between Mrs Ms urticaria and 
her hay fever. 
Vitality hasnt defined what it means by disease here. I appreciate it feels a standard 
dictionary definition of disease shows urticaria would be included. But I dont think a 
reasonable consumer would necessarily consider an allergic reaction to be a disease. 
For example, I dont think an average consumer would define hay fever as a disease. So Im 
not persuaded Vitality has done enough to show theres a misrepresentation in relation to 
this question. 
Vitality has also noted urticaria is listed as a condition in the drop-down list available within 
the online application. However, I dont think you can fairly expect a consumer to search for 
a condition under a drop-down list if they dont reasonably consider they have to answer 
yes to the question in the first place. And its also evident Mrs M didnt have access to this 
list when she checked her answers. 
Ive also thought about the fact urticaria was a long-standing condition which Mrs M had 
received treatment for. Vitality is of the view that this indicates Mrs M ought to have known to 
disclose it. Whilst I accept Vitality may have wanted to know about this skin condition and 
that it was long-standing, Im not satisfied the question it asked was clear enough that it can 
fairly say Mrs M ought to have answered yes.
Moving to the second question, Vitality has noted that Mrs M was prescribed antihistamine 
tablets for periods longer than two weeks. For example, in July 2012 she was given 60 
tablets to be taken once daily. It has said this is evidence shed received treatment for a 
continuous period over two weeks. But Mrs Ms account is that she only took the tablets as 
and when she needed them and so wasnt using the medication for a continuous period of 
two weeks or more. 
Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I have to decide what I think is most likely. 
The GP records do show Mrs Ms urticaria was on/off. There are also sufficient gaps 
between her appointments to support her account she wasnt taking the tablets every day. 
For example, she attended in March 2012 for antihistamines and was given one months 
worth but didnt go back to explain this wasnt effective until May 2012. Again, she was given 
one months worth of an alternative antihistamine and didnt return for more until two months 
later. Theres also reference in the GP notes in November 2014 to Mrs M self-limiting her 
medication. Given this, I dont think Vitality can fairly say there was a misrepresentation here 
either. I appreciate Vitality has said that whether Mrs M took the medication doesnt change the fact 
she was prescribed it - and I agree. But the question it asked isnt what was prescribed but 
whether treatment had been received. And I think the word received here is ambiguous. 
I think it could reasonably be interpreted by a consumer to mean whether they took the 
medication. So, Im not persuaded by Vitalitys argument here.
What would have happened?
Vitality has categorised this as a careless misrepresentation and I think this is fair in the 
circumstances, particularly taking into account the involvement of the broker.
So, Ive then looked at what would have happened had Mrs M told Vitality about the blood 
tests and ultra sound shed had on her liver. 
If Mrs M has said yes to this question, she would have then been able to select an option 
for blood test and would have been asked the following additional questions: 
Are you still awaiting an appointment or the results of the blood test? 
Was the test part of a routine 'well person' check or pregnancy? 
Was the result normal? 
Is the test in relation to a condition you have already mentioned?
Please provide full details of reason for test, nature of symptoms experienced and any
treatment etc.
Mrs M, through her agent, would have needed to explain shed had abnormal LFT results. 
She may have explained that this started in pregnancy but that it had continued afterwards. 
She would also have needed to tell Vitality this had led to an ultrasound which found no 
underlying issues. 
Vitality has said this would have gone to an underwriter who would have required a LFT from 
within the last 12 months in order to decide if cover could be offered. On this basis Vitality 
has said it would have postponed cover for up to six months and Mrs M would have needed 
to reapply once shed had an up-to-date LFT test. From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied 
that this is fair. I appreciate Mrs M doesnt feel like Vitality can reasonably say it would have 
wanted further tests when the ultrasound showed her liver was fine. But its usual practice for 
insurers to take a cautious approach where there are abnormal results with no evident 
underlying cause. So, Im persuaded by Vitalitys account of what it would have done at that 
time. 
The code states that where the decision to defer cover would have been made, as far as 
possible the insurer should try to determine what the ultimate underwriting decision would 
have been. But it also says if the deferral decision would have required the customer to re-
apply, then this can be treated as a decline. 
Vitality has looked at what it might have done if Mrs M had reapplied. It noted the next test 
on Mrs Ms record was in November 2014, which was within six months of her application. 
Vitality has said that had Mrs M applied after this it would then have requested a targeted 
GP report to establish the results of the LFT. 
At this stage Vitality thinks it would have been told about Mrs Ms urticaria and the referral to 
a dermatologist. And thats because the GP entry on 20 October 2014 shows the GP had 
concerns the urticaria was linked to the abnormal LFTs. Vitality said that based on this, it 
would have again postponed cover until the dermatologist had seen Mrs M about her 
urticaria.I note that Mrs M thinks Vitality is unfairly linking the two conditions when there is no link. 
She noted that there are GP entries from around that time showing there was nothing 
suspicious thought to be the cause of her urticaria. But Vitality is correct in identifying that 
there is a GP entry suggesting a link between the two was considered. LFTs are also 
referred to in a later consultation note about Mrs Ms urticaria. So, on balance, I think its 
likely Vitality would have become aware of the urticaria and dermatologist referral as part of 
a targeted GP report about LFTs. 
Vitality has then looked at what might have happened next. It said the earliest it would have 
considered a further application from Mrs M is after she had been reviewed by the 
dermatologist in February 2015. Following a further application, Vitality has said it would 
have then obtained another targeted GP report in relation to the LFTs and urticaria.
Mrs M had repeat blood tests around early February 2015 at the dermatologists request. 
I note Mrs M says she didnt have tests at this time but the medical information Ive seen 
indicates that she did. The dermatologist letter to her GP notes this was to exclude any 
underlying cause. The LFT results were again abnormal and based on these results, Vitality 
has said it would then have refused cover. 
I have carefully reviewed the medical evidence and the underwriting evidence. 
I have also considered again the comments Mrs M made about pregnancy and how long it 
takes for the body to return to normal post-pregnancy. I note that she also gave birth in 2014 
and so she feels the 2015 abnormal LFT tests may have been impacted by this. However, 
again, I have seen no evidence from Mrs Ms treating doctors to show that her continued 
abnormal LFTs were a consequence of pregnancy such that Vitality would need to consider 
this.
Taking everything into account, I think Vitalitys explanation of what it would have done if it 
had been provided with the information it ought to have had is fair. I appreciate Mrs M 
doesnt think so - she sees no reason for Vitality to have denied her cover given there was 
no diagnosed problem. But the underwriting criteria in place at that time indicates Vitality 
would ultimately have declined cover. Unfortunately, because of the commercially sensitive 
nature of this material, I cant share this evidence with Mrs M. But as I outlined earlier in this 
decision, insurers usually take a cautious approach given that abnormal results can indicate 
an underlying health issue which would impact risk. Overall, Im persuaded a decline was the 
likely outcome of underwriting at that time. And whilst I appreciate this is disappointing for 
Mrs M, I dont think its an unfair approach to take.
Whilst I dont think Mrs M made as many misrepresentations as Vitality suggested, I 
ultimately think it is fairly entitled to avoid the policy and refund the premiums. Which is what 
its done. Im aware this decision will be an immense disappointment to Mrs M and I do not 
wish to cause her any upset at what is already a very difficult time for her. But for the 
reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think Vitality needs to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman