DRN-1549050
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they werent alerted when transactions were fraudulently 
debited from their Barclays Bank UK PLC current account.
 
What happened
On 17 June 2019 Barclays sent Mrs G a message about her account advising there was 
insufficient funds to make a payment. Mrs G checked the account and found several 
transactions she didnt recognise and contacted Barclays. A new debit card was ordered. 
Mrs G spoke with Barclays again on 19 June 2019 and was told that the pending 
transactions she had highlighted would be investigated if they cleared by 24 June 2019. On 
22 June 2019 Barclays wrote to Mrs G and asked her to confirm several transactions were 
genuine. 
Barclays investigated the transactions Mr and Mrs G highlighted and agreed they were 
fraudulent. But Mr and Mrs G have explained that, during the period their available balance 
was affected, they had to borrow money from a family member. 
Mr and Mrs G complained and Barclays responded on 6 July 2019. Barclays apologised for 
the inconvenience caused and paid Mr and Mrs G £75 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr and Mrs G referred their complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He 
thought Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr and Mrs G asked to appeal, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upset Mr and Mrs G are that Barclays didnt contact them about the fraudulent 
transactions when they were initially processed. It was a text message from Barclays about 
Mr and Mrs Gs available balance that alerted them to the fraudulent transactions in 
question. Barclays says its systems cant pick up all fraudulent transactions, but there is a 
process in place when theyre identified by account holders. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs G feel Barclays should have alerted them to the fraudulent 
transactions. But I accept Barclays systems cant pick up all attempts at fraud and that there 
are occasions where payments that werent authorised by the account holders go through. 
When that happens, Id expect Barclays to investigate the transactions and refund them. 
Thats what happened in this case and Barclays accepted that the transactions highlighted 
werent genuine. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G but Im satisfied Barclays has treated them fairly. I 
agree that the transactions did debit their account, but Barclays took action to investigate 
and ensured there was no loss when it confirmed they werent genuine. 
Mr and Mrs G had to borrow money from a family member to cover living costs. I dont doubt 
how distressing Mr and Mrs G found the situation but the information Ive seen shows 
Barclays investigated the transactions without unreasonable delays and ensured their 
account was returned to the correct position. 
Barclays paid Mr and Mrs G £75 to apologise for the inconvenience caused. Ive noted 
everything Mr and Mrs G have told us about the impact of this situation on them and 
considered all the available information. Having done so, Im satisfied £75 is fair in all the 
circumstances, so Im not telling Barclays to increase the award. As Barclays dealt with 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman