DRN-4065905
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Zopa Bank Limited in relation to a credit 
card application. Hes unhappy with the service received, and wants the hard credit search 
removed from his credit file. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr C applied for a credit card with Zopa. He said that his application was 
accepted, yet shortly after, he received an email saying that the card account had been 
closed because he hadnt provided information Zopa required. Unhappy with this, he 
complained. He said he didnt receive any request for information, and he thinks Zopa 
should either issue him with the card he applied for, or remove the credit searches they 
recorded against his file in respect of the card application. 
Zopa responded. They said they emailed Mr C immediately after the account was opened, 
requesting he upload one or more documents in order for them to confirm his details, but no 
information was received. They said that as well as this, Mr C also made an online chat 
request to cancel the card and remove the credit search from his file. So, because of the 
above, the card account was subsequently closed. Zopa explained however, that the hard 
search would remain on Mr Cs credit file, as this was an accurate reflection of the situation, 
as an application for credit had been made. Unhappy with this, Mr C referred his complaint 
to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Cs complaint, but didnt recommend it was upheld. He said 
he was satisfied that Zopa requested further information from Mr C which was never 
received. And he could also see that Mr C himself had requested that the account be closed. 
So, he didnt think it was unfair of Zopa not to issue Mr C with a card. He was also satisfied 
that Zopa had not acted unreasonably in recording a hard search against Mr Cs credit file, 
as an application for credit had been made. 
But Mr C remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C applied for the credit card account with Zopa on 14 January 2023, and I can see that 
following this, an email was sent to Mr C on the same day requesting that he click a link to 
upload further documents. Mr C initially said he didnt receive any such request, but he now 
accepts that this email was received. 
The email said: Thanks for applying for a Zopa credit card. We need you to upload one or 
more documents so we can confirm your details. As part of our security checks, we double-
check details like your income and identity. Just hit the upload documents button to login and 
we'll tell you exactly what you need to send.
So, I think Zopa made it clear that they required further information before they could 
complete Mr Cs application and issue him with a card. They also made it clear that the 
information Mr C would need to upload would be set out when he selected the upload 
documents button. Given that the information required was not uploaded, I dont think it was 
wrong for Zopa to hold back in issuing Mr Cs card. 
On 30 January 2023, I can also see that Mr C contacted Zopa using an online chat function. 
Ive been sent a transcript of the chat and, within it, Mr C explains that he wants to delete his 
details and close his account. He goes onto explain that he never received the card; that he 
has no confidence in Zopa; and that wants the hard credit search removed from his file, or a 
final deadlock letter sent to him. 
On 11 February 2023, Zopa sent Mr C a further email, explaining that as they had not 
received the required documents, they had now cancelled his application. Given that Mr C 
had not uploaded the documentation Zopa required, and given that he himself had 
requested that the application be cancelled on Zopas online chat platform, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Mr Cs card account to be closed down. Following this, Zopa also sent 
Mr C a final response letter, but explained that the hard search would remain on his file as 
an application for credit had been made.
I appreciate that Mr C would like for the credit search to be removed from his file, but when 
an application for credit is made, and in this case, the application provisionally approved, a 
search will be recorded on a customers credit file in respect of that application. So, I dont 
think Zopa are wrong not to have removed this, as this accurately reflects the events that 
took place. 
Therefore, while I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr C, I dont think Zopa 
have done anything wrong here.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman