DRN-3996589
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr R are unhappy Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money havent 
refunded money they lost as a result of a scam. 
Mrs F and Mr R are being represented by Mrs R but for ease of reading Ill refer to Mrs F in 
my decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In March 2021 Mrs F received a call from a 
third party claiming to work for her bank who persuaded her that her account had been 
compromised and her funds needed to be moved to a safe account. Mrs F then sent two 
payments of £3,800 each. The first payment was sent to the beneficiary bank. But the 
second payment was stopped by Virgin Money and the scam uncovered. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the first payment of 
£3,800 on 15 March 2021 wasnt sufficiently unusual for Virgin Money to stop and ask further 
questions of Mrs F because a genuine £10,000 faster payment had been made a week 
before. And that Virgin Money fairly intervened when the second £3,800 payment was 
attempted which meant no further money was sent to the scammer. He added that Virgin 
Money had said there was a warning about safe account scams on its banking app at the 
time the first payment was made. So, he was satisfied Virgin Money hadnt done anything 
wrong by allowing the first payment to be sent and that a £100 offer for the way Virgin 
Money handled the complaint was fair. 
Mrs F disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said that if a warning on her 
banking app had been provided when the new payee was created for the first payment this 
wouldve put an end to the scam. She said she went to a branch who told her the warning on 
her banking app in relation to safe account scams wasnt available at the time of the scam, 
and if it had it wouldve been seen by her and the first payment wouldnt have been sent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mrs F has been the victim of a scam. I know she feels 
strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill explain 
why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The CRM is a scheme through which consumers can sometimes be refunded by their bank 
when theyve been the victim of an authorised push payment scam. But Virgin Money didnt 
join the scheme until February 2022. And it isnt retrospective. So, as the CRM doesnt apply 
to this complaint, I cant use it as the basis to ask Virgin Money to do more. 
It is common ground that Mrs F authorised the scam payments. I accept that these were 
authorised payments even though Mrs F was the victim of a scam. So, although it wasnt her 
intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs) and the terms of her account, Mrs F is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Virgin Money to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The second payment was stopped, so I need to decide whether Virgin Money couldve done 
more to stop the first payment. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mrs F to Virgin Money (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to her typical account activity. 
Ive reviewed the statements Virgin Money has provided of Mrs Fs accounts. Ive seen that 
she generally maintained a healthy balance on the account (around £5,933 was in the 
account after the payment was made towards this scam) and that she made a larger  
payment on the account previously (a £10,000 payment on 08 March 2021). So, Im satisfied 
it wasnt unusual for her to send a larger payment from time to time. 
As a result, Im not satisfied the first payment Mrs F made towards this scam was sufficiently 
unusual or suspicious that Virgin Money shouldve stopped it or contacted her to discuss the 
payment in more detail before allowing her to make it. 
Mrs F has said a warning message wasnt displayed when she made the first payment. And 
a local branch had confirmed it had only been available on the app afterwards. She said that 
if it had been available on the app, she wouldve spotted it and not agreed to send the 
payment. Virgin Money has said that the warning has displayed in its app since July 2019. 
I think  on balance - its likely the warning has been available since July 2019. And, 
although I understand the points Mrs F has made, I think its more likely that the warning was 
passed over at the time she was on the phone to a persuasive scammer who had told her 
the account was in danger from fraud. But to be clear, even if the warning app wasnt 
displayed at the time, that shouldnt detract from the above point Ive made about what steps 
Virgin Money is expected to take and under what circumstances. That is that if the payment 
is sufficiently unusual or suspicious that it should step in and stop the payment (like it did 
with the second payment here). And because I dont think the first payment was sufficiently 
unusual or suspicious, then I dont think Virgin Money not stopping the first payment meant 
Mrs F was treated unfairly here. 
Ive considered whether Virgin Money acted reasonably after it was made aware of the 
scam. When Mrs F spoke to Virgin Money on 15 March 2021, after the second payment was 
stopped, the scam was raised and a request to the beneficiary bank was made reasonably. A response was then received in May 2021 to say there was no money to be returned. So, 
Im not satisfied Virgin Money acted unreasonably when the scam was raised.
I understand the distress that this situation has caused  but ultimately, its the scammer that 
has caused this issue. And, as Ive explained above, I dont think Virgin Money treated Mrs F 
unfairly when allowing the payment to be sent. Virgin Money has said it couldve 
communicated more clearly with her when it was investigating the scam. So, I think its offer 
to pay £100 is fair here. 
Im sorry to hear Mrs F lost the funds to the scammers. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think Virgin Money have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman