DRN-3795909
The complaint
Mrs W, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Morses records, here is a loan table. Loans 2 and 3 did overlap and 
so Mrs Ws repayments would have been the combined sum in the repayment column.  
Loan Start DateCapital 
AmountTerm 
weeksRepayment 
amountrepaid
1 11/03/2016 £300.00 33 £15.00 28/10/2016
2 09/08/2016 £300.00 33 £15.00 02/02/2017
3 06/12/2016 £500.00 52 £17.50 15/11/2017*
*this looks to have been the date that Morses sold the debt to a third party. Morses has told 
us:
The current status of the account is passed to a debt collection agency with a 
balance of £707.30.
Morses final response letter following Mrs Ws complaint gave reasons why it did not 
consider it had done anything wrong. Mrs W referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and one of our adjudicators looked at it. She considered that Morses 
had done all it needed to do and there was no evidence to suggest Morses had lent 
irresponsibly in relation to loans 1 and 2. 
For loan 3, our adjudicator did think that Morses ought to have done additional checks 
before lending as it was for a larger amount and for a longer term. But our adjudicator was 
not able to come to any conclusion as to what Morses might have seen if it had carried out a 
further series of checks. That was because Mrs W had not sent to us any information 
relating to her financial situation in December 2016. 
Mrs Ws representative replied to say that it wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint 
but sent no additional information to support Mrs Ws claim. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Ws 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mrs W. These factors include:
Mrs W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs W. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs W was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mrs Ws complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Morses has not been able to send to us any details of the information gathered from Mrs W 
for loans 1 and 2. The reason seems to be due to the passage of time as these were loans 
approved from Mrs W in 2016. So, I dont find that unreasonable. 
Morses has been able to send to us the credit search results it did on 9 March 2016 which 
was just before loan 1. There is nothing in those search results which leads me to think that 
Morses ought to have been alerted to any need for carrying out any additional checks before 
lending. So, on the limited information I have, theres no reason to conclude that Morses lent 
to Mrs W irresponsibly in respect of loans 1 and 2. I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint for 
those two loans.
For Loan 3, I agree with our adjudicator that Morses ought to have done additional checks 
before lending as it was for a larger amount and for a longer term and loan 2 remained 
outstanding. But Mrs W has not sent to us any information relating to Mrs Ws financial 
situation in December 2016 when she applied for loan 3. And even since our adjudicators 
written view in which she said that more evidence would be needed for a conclusion to be 
reached, and despite being professionally represented, no additional information has been sent to us. 
So, I must rely on the information Morses has been able to provide. This was that Mrs Ws 
income was £400 a week from a salary, that her outgoings were £100 which included the 
outstanding Morses loan repayments. And so, it considered she was able to afford the 
additional £17.50 a week for loan 3. 
In the absence of any evidence from Mrs W to the contrary, then I make my decision based 
on the evidence I have. And I think that Mrs W was likely able to afford the loan. 
I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint about loan 3. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman