DRN-3733785
The complaint
Miss G has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly lent to her. She says 
she was provided with credit that she couldnt afford, and she lost out as a result. 
What happened
Miss G opened a credit card account with NewDay in August 2015. Her credit limit was 
initially £100. In December 2015 her credit limit was increased to £1,100. In June 2016 it 
was increased again to £2,150. A final credit limit increase was applied in August 2019 when 
it was increased to £2,950. 
Miss G says that NewDay shouldnt have allowed her to open an account and it shouldnt 
have increased her credit limit once it had. Miss G says she was a student on very low 
income when she opened the account and that she had opened other credit accounts and 
was gambling too.
 
Miss G says that when her credit limit was first increased she had opened even more credit 
accounts and had taken a payday loan. She says her situation continued to deteriorate until 
at the point of the last credit limit increase she had multiple payday loans and car finance as 
well as using the card to take out cash. 
She says if NewDay had done adequate checks on her situation it would have seen that she 
wouldnt be able to repay her balance in a reasonable length of time.
 
NewDay says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Miss G and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Miss G  and when it increased his credit limit.
 
Our adjudicator thought that Miss Gs complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the original lending decision was reasonable, but that by the time of the June 2016 increase 
to £2,150 it was clear that Miss G was struggling with managing her finances and that 
NewDay should not have increased her credit limit. 
Our adjudicator said that NewDay should remove any interest and charges applied after 31 
August 2016 and that it should arrange for his credit file to be amended if the outstanding 
balance had been cleared as a result.
 
NewDay disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no indications of any 
financial strain. But it did agree to uphold Miss Gs complaint from the final credit limit 
increase in August 2019. Miss G did not agree with this, but she did agree with the 
adjudicators view. 
As NewDay disagreed with the adjudicators view the case has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Miss Gs complaint.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Miss Gs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss G. These factors include things 
like understanding Miss Gs income, the total amount Miss G borrowed, and the length of 
time Miss G had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
When Miss G opened her account NewDay conducted a credit check. NewDay told us there 
were no signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the results 
of the checks, I dont think there is anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable 
for NewDay to have approved the account. They showed that Miss G had £100 of unsecured 
debt with one active account elsewhere and there was no indication of any defaults, arrears, 
County Court Judgments (CCJs) or payday loans. Miss G declared an income of £12,000 a 
year.
I think this suggests that the decision to lend the initial £100 was reasonable. There were no 
obvious signs of financial distress and Miss G had low levels of debt. So, I dont think 
NewDay did anything wrong with its original lending decision.
NewDay increased Miss Gs limit for the first time in December 2015. At this point Miss G 
had only occasionally used the account and she had managed the account well. While 
NewDay didnt provide data from third party credit reference agencies there was no 
indication that Miss G was experiencing financial difficulties. Having said this, given the 
significant increase in the credit limit  more than ten times the original limit  I think it would 
have been reasonable for NewDay to have made a more detailed affordability assessment. 
However, I have no information available to indicate that had NewDay done this that it would 
have found evidence that NewDay shouldnt have given Miss G the credit limit increase.
 
Similarly, when it came to the credit limit increase six months later in June 2016, I think 
NewDay should have made more checks to ensure the increased lending was affordable for 
Miss G, by verifying her income and expenditure. By this time, looking at NewDays data, 
Miss Gs financial situation was less stable. Miss G had incurred an over limit fee two 
months before. She was utilising a high proportion of her credit limit and in the six months 
before the increase she had utilised the cash withdrawal facility on at least 12 occasions 
over the course of two months. There is limited information available about her credit use 
elsewhere although the number of active credit accounts elsewhere had increased to four. Miss G provided bank statements from around this time. They showed that her existing 
credit repayments accounted for more than half of her income a month and that after the 
payment of essential expenses such as food and travel, Miss G had very little disposable 
income each month. The additional borrowing would have left her with an estimated £7.55 in 
disposable income a month if she had utilised it fully.
 
NewDay has seen these bank statements and disputes Miss Gs income.  It says that a year 
earlier she had disclosed a higher income and she hadnt let NewDay know that it had 
decreased. This may be the case. But Miss G wasnt obliged to proactively let NewDay know 
of a change in income and NewDay didnt ask her. Had it done so  as I have said it should 
have done  it would have had a better idea of her financial circumstances, which combined 
with the information it did have ought to have alerted it to the probability that the increased 
credit limit was not affordable for Miss G.
 
NewDay indicates we should ask for more bank statements over a longer period of time. It 
does not indicate why we should do this. I am satisfied that the information I have is 
sufficient for the purposes of making this decision.
 
So, on balance, I am satisfied that NewDay did not do sufficient checks to make a fair and 
reasonable decision on the matter of the June 2016 credit limit increase and I think Miss G 
has lost out as a result. 
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Miss Gs credit limit from £1,100, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit. However, Miss G has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I 
think she should pay this back. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £1,100.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss G along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
from June 2016 regarding this account from Miss Gs credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,100, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss G for the remaining amount. Once 
Miss G has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
June 2016 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
If NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss G a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.My final decision
I uphold Miss Gs complaint in part and direct NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman