DRN-2800734
The complaint
Mrs J makes a number of complaints about how she was treated by The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) staff when she attended a branch.
What happened
Mrs J says she attended a RBS branch to withdraw money from her accounts. She says she 
was asked what the money was for and asked for identification. Mrs J says she provided a 
driving licence which was on the face of it out of date but had been extended due to the 
pandemic extension changes. She says she was given legal advice by RBS staff about the 
licence which should not have given and was unable to withdraw her money. Mrs J says she 
was asked by staff if she even celebrated Christmas which she says is discriminatory. In 
summary Mrs J says she was badly treated by RBS and a car purchase fell through.
RBS accepts it made a mistake about the driving licence and that they had been extended. It 
has apologised for that. RBS doesnt accept discriminatory behaviour and says it was 
entitled to refuse the withdrawal application in these circumstances.  It has offered £250 
compensation for what took place.
Mrs J brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained we couldnt look into the new complaint about the car purchase and also explained 
it wasnt our role to decide if discrimination laws had been broken. The investigator thought 
RBSs hadnt dealt appropriately about the driving licence issue but thought the 
compensation offer appropriate. The investigator also thought RBS was entitled to reject the 
withdrawal application.
Mrs J doesnt accept that view and says she would like an apology from the branch and says 
staff are not allowed to give legal advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a slightly different view to that of the investigator but overall 
think that RBSs compensation offer is fair and reasonable. For that reason, I dont consider 
that this complaint requires a provisional decision. I also make clear to Mrs J that I am not 
considering the complaint about the loss of the car purchase as RBS hasnt investigated 
that. And am only considering her complaint and not that of her son, as I think they are 
separate complaints and that Mrs J is not a joint account holder with him.
I accept that Mrs J was attempting to withdraw her money from her accounts and that RBS 
allowed her to withdraw £1,000 from one of her accounts. So, I dont think it clear why RBS 
would refuse to allow Mrs J to withdraw £4,000 from her other account in those 
circumstances or why it had security concerns. I appreciate RBS says Mrs J gave two 
reasons for the withdrawal but on the face of it I cant see why her reasons for wanting 
money for Christmas and a new car were contradictory. I also think that RBS ought to have 
checked the position about the driving licence expiry date before deciding it wasnt valid.
For those reasons I dont think RBS dealt appropriately with Mrs Js request to withdraw her 
own money and I have made clear that I cant see any reason why RBS would allow a 
£1,000 withdrawal but not £4,000. 
I can see that RBS has offered £250 compensation to Mrs J and has apologised for some of 
the issues that took place. I have made clear that I also think that RBS acted unfairly by 
refusing Mrs Js withdrawal request. But I think overall the compensation offer of £250 is fair 
and reasonable and fairly reflects what took place and that Mrs J was able to withdraw the 
money the following day. I accept Mrs J was caused distress and inconvenience but cant 
fairly order RBS to increase that offer.
I appreciate Mrs J says that comments were made by RBS staff about Christmas which she 
says were discriminatory. RBS says such comments were not made. In those circumstances 
I cant be sure what took place, and, in any event, it would be for a court to determine if any 
anti-discrimination laws were broken.
Overall, I find that RBS ought to have dealt more appropriately with what ought to have been 
a simple request to withdraw money. I dont think I need to comment on what Mrs J says that 
RBS staff ought not to have given legal advice on using an out of date driving licence as I 
have made clear the staff ought to have checked the position when told the expiry period 
had been extended. Im also satisfied RBS has apologised and that it would be inappropriate 
to order a branch to repeat that apology.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £250. Mrs Js acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman