DRN-3299552
The complaint
Mrs S complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) informed her she had won a 
prize on her premium savings bonds, but the message on her account disappeared and she 
was told she hadnt won.
What happened
Mrs S says she received an email from NS&I in early December 2020 informing her she had 
won a prize and after she checked the prize history on her account there was no record of 
her winning a prize that month. Mrs S says she then telephoned NS&I in early January 2021 
to query this and was informed there had been some issues with incorrect notifications to 
some customers but on checking the records, there was no record of any prize for her that 
month and the matter would be investigated. Mrs S says when she rang NS&I back later that 
day the messages she had initially received had disappeared. Mrs S feels that NS&I are 
covering something up and doesnt feel the £50 compensation it offered her is acceptable 
and NS&I havent provided a full explanation of what has happened.
NS&I says it has no record of any emails being sent to Mrs S confirming she had won a prize 
in December 2020. Initially NS&I says it had a technical issue that occurred displaying online 
messages to customers they had won a prize when they hadnt and offered Mrs S £50 for 
that. Subsequently NS&I have informed this service there were no technical issues and its 
advisor had made an incorrect assumption. NS&I says its records show no prize was won by 
Mrs S in December 2020.
Mrs S wasnt happy with NS&Is response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
felt there was no evidence to support Mrs Ss claim she had received an email confirming 
she had won a prize in December 2020s draw. The investigator says NS&I have provided 
details confirming Mrs S hadnt won a prize in December 2020 and although it had since 
advised there was no technical issues as described in NS&Is final response to Mrs S, the 
investigator felt the £50 it had offered her was fair.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mrs S to have recalled 
receiving an email from NS&I confirming she had won a prize, then to be told that wasnt the 
case.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if there is sufficient evidence to suggest NS&I 
had sent a confirmation email to Mrs S, confirming she had won a prize in December 2020.
Mrs S has told this service she recalls receiving an email confirmation from NS&I on 5 
December 2020 to say she had won a prize. Mrs S says she also recalls seeing two 
messages when she logged onto her account in early January 2021, confirming she had 
won, but on checking her prize history there was no record of a prize for December 2020. 
Mrs S says she then telephoned NS&I to query this on 7 January 2021 and was told the 
matter would be looked into and was told there had been occasions when customers had 
received an email to say they had won when they hadnt. Mrs S says she then logged back 
into her account later that day and those earlier confirmatory messages had disappeared, so 
she then telephoned NS&I again to complain.
I have listened to both of those telephone calls Mrs S refers to and its fair to say during the 
first telephone call on 7 January 2021, the member of staff did say NS&I had occasions 
where messages had been sent, when customers hadnt won a prize. Its also worth 
mentioning in both telephone calls, the members of staff that Mrs S speaks with, says there 
was no record of Mrs S winning a prize in December 2020. 
Since carrying out our investigations NS&I told this service, the information the initial 
member of staff told Mrs S, and what it had said in its final response letter to her regarding 
technical issues concerning customer notifications, wasnt correct. So here NS&I offered Mrs 
S £50 by way of apology for something that didnt actually happen. Having said that, given 
the misinformation here, I believe the compensation payment should still be made available 
to Mrs S, if she wants to accept it.
Looking at the complaint itself, and whether Mrs S had been sent an email in December 
2020, I can only come to a full and impartial decision based on the evidence presented to 
me.  
I have seen copies of Mrs Ss account logging in records, and I can see she logged into her 
NS&I account on 5 December 2020 and on 7 January 2021 as she has described. 
Unfortunately, those records dont provide any detailed evidence to support her recollection, 
that she saw the messages, she did, only that she logged in on those dates. Additionally, 
Mrs S has told this service she deletes any email messages about notifications of prizes for 
security reasons, and so she has no copies of the emails she says she received on or 
around 5 December 2020, from NS&I. Mrs S has approached her email provider who werent 
able to provide any evidence of those emails, given the time that has passed. 
Additionally, NS&I have also confirmed to this service that no amendments were made to 
Mrs Ss account during the time in question, apart from Mrs S resetting her password on 5 
December 2020.
So here, while I can understand Mrs S feels strongly about the fact she was sent an email 
about winning a prize in December 2020 there is no account history, email confirmation or 
messages to show that she did. While accepting NS&I gave Mrs S inaccurate information 
about it experiencing technical issues, thats not to say Mrs S had won a prize in December 
2020 and from the information I have seen and referred to earlier, including the prize history, 
it suggests in all probability she didnt. 
With that in mind, I cant say NS&I have covered up an issue here, as Mrs S suggests, 
simply it has provided poor customer service at the time when it tried to establish why she 
recalled seeing an email in December 2020, when one doesnt appear to have been sent to 
her. As I have said before NS&I should honour the £50 compensation they originally offered 
Mrs S for that. So, without trying to minimise Mrs Ss frustrations over this matter, I cant say with any 
certainty here what email she recalls seeing in early December 2020, other than to say 
without any evidence to show one was sent from NS&I , I have to rely on what evidence 
there is here. 
It follows, it would be unreasonable for me to tell NS&I it must have sent an email confirming 
Mrs S had won a prize in December 2020, when it has consistently said to Mrs S, it has  no 
record of any email being sent in December 2020, and she has no supporting evidence to 
show it was received by her.
While Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of NS&I. 
My final decision
My final is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman