DRN-1285933
The complaint
Mrs K, through her representative, has complained about a funeral cover plan provided by 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. She is unhappy that she has paid more into the policy 
that is due to be paid out.
What happened
In December 1996 Mrs Ks late husband took out a funeral cover plan in Mrs Ks name. The 
plan provided a sum assured of £2,385 with a monthly premium of £25. As the policy was a 
funeral plan it appears no reviews were involved, and the sum assured and premiums 
remained the same throughout.
Aviva has confirmed the plan was sold via a mailshot and so no advice was provided to Mr K 
regarding the suitability of the plan. 
Mrs Ks representative has said that Mrs K wasnt aware of this policy until about six years 
ago. Hes said he could find no paperwork about it that had been sent to her or Mr K when 
he was alive. Hes also said that Mrs K has paid in around £6,500 but the policy will only pay 
out £2,385 which he feels is wrong and therefore thinks the policy has been mis sold.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He was satisfied the policy was sold without advice, so looking at the policy 
documents he saw it set out the key details of the policy including that more could be paid 
into it than would be paid out. He was also satisfied that these documents would have been 
provided to Mr K when he took the policy out.
The representative didnt agree with the assessment. He stated that Mr K had dealt with all 
the financial issues when he was alive and Mrs K had no experience in such matters. Hes 
said she didnt know about the policy and wasnt even aware there was a joint account or 
that the policy was being paid out of this. He also explained that the address Aviva had 
recorded for Mr and Mrs K was essentially a building site (a house that was being renovated) 
so there could be no guarantee that the letters or any information from Aviva would have 
reached who they were meant to.
While the investigator considered the points the representative raised, he wasnt persuaded 
to change his initial outcome.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
I appreciate why the representative and Mrs K feel something has gone wrong given how 
much has been paid into the plan and how much will be paid out upon her passing. 
However, this is how these types of policies work. And this alone isnt enough for me to say 
the policy was mis sold.
Another point to note is that the policy was sold without Aviva giving advice. This is not 
unusual for these types of specific policies, but what this means is that Aviva didnt conduct 
any type of exercise before the policy was taken out to ascertain whether it was suitable for 
either Mr or Mrs Ks needs. All it was obligated to do was provide all the necessary 
information to enable the buyer to make a fully informed decision.
The circumstances of this specific complaint is an unusual situation - while Mrs K is 
complaining the policy was mis sold, she wasnt actually sold the policy. It was Mr K who 
took out the policy in 1996 for Mrs K. So, in reality the policy was sold to him and it would 
have been Mr K who would have received the policy information before he took it out and 
after. 
I have seen the information Aviva provided for this policy and I am satisfied that it clearly 
stated that more may be paid into it than would be paid out if the life assured lived a long 
time. So I think Mr K would have been aware of this. I am also satisfied having looked at all 
the information about the policy that all the correct details were provided in those documents 
to allow Mr K to make a fully informed decision.
I know the representative has said that Mr K was fastidious in keeping paperwork so the fact 
the documentation couldnt be found means it wasnt sent. But I disagree. I dont think this 
indicates with any certainty that Aviva didnt send the policy documentation and I think on 
balance the paperwork was provided to Mr K in 1996 because this is something Aviva would 
have had to do.
The representative has stressed the point that Mrs K didnt know this policy existed until 
relatively recently and that she wasnt involved in any financial matters whilst Mr K was alive. 
But this doesnt mean Aviva has done anything wrong or that it mis sold the policy. It would 
appear that Mr K wanted to put some life protection in place for his wife and this policy met 
that need. Also, the policy was being paid for out of a joint account. This remained the case 
for over twenty years with no failures in premiums. So given a valid payment method was set 
up its unlikely the policy was incorrectly set up or was something Mr K didnt want.
I appreciate the difficulty presented by the representative that Mrs K wasnt aware of the 
policy, but ensuring Mrs K was told about the policy or any other financial affairs was really 
something for Mr and Mrs K to sort out between themselves rather than any concern of 
Aviva.  This also applies to the issue the representative has raised about their address and 
receiving post. Again, I feel it was for Mr and Mrs K to ensure they had a way of receiving 
their post. If the address Mr K gave to Aviva wasnt accessible Mr K should have given a 
correct one at the time.
Ultimately the policy was sold to Mr K and as he unfortunately passed away the situation 
surrounding the sale or the reasons for it cant be verified. The arrangements for this policy 
were for Mr and Mrs K to personally sort out together and if that didnt happen Aviva cannot 
be held responsible. All Aviva had to do given no advice was provided was ensure it gave 
the correct information. And as I have already said I think it did this.
Therefore, I have no reason to conclude that the policy was mis-sold or that Aviva has done 
anything wrong that it needs to rectify.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman