DRN-1708681
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs I took out a mortgage with YBS in 1993. They were sold the PPI in connection 
with this mortgage around three years later in March 1996. In July 1996 Mr and Mrs I applied 
for a further advance and the PPI cover was increased to a higher monthly benefit at this 
time.
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Is names, the PPI only covered Mr I. It 
would have provided a monthly benefit which would have covered the mortgage payments 
(and more) for up to 12 months if Mr I lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Is complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs I didnt 
agree with the adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Is case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs I will be disappointed with this outcome but I will explain why Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr I was eligible under the policy. Based on Mr Is age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr I would have been 
eligible.
YBS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs I that the PPI was optional and needed their consent 
before it could be applied to the account. 
YBS have provided us with the documents from the time of the sale. These show that the 
PPI was not taken out until around three years after the mortgage was sold. I think this 
shows that Mr and Mrs I would have been aware that the policy was optional as they were 
able to get the mortgage without the PPI. Furthermore, Mr I completed a separate 
application form for the PPI in March 1996. Ive seen a copy of this and note Mr I made 
various choices in this application form such as the level of cover and the excess period. Mr 
and Mrs I signed this application form. 
Mr I does not say that he was told he had to have PPI, rather he says it was suggested to 
them that this was a good idea and they were enticed into to it as the first six months were 
free. I dont think this amounts to a pressured sale.I have also seen the application form from the time of the increase of PPI in July 1996. The 
further advance application form gave Mr and Mrs I a choice about they wanted to consider 
taking PPI and I can see that Mr and Mrs I opted for information to be provided to them 
about the PPI and there is a handwritten note next to this saying that they already have 
existing cover. And again Mr I completed a separate application form requesting an increase 
and signed this application form.
Based on the evidence available to me, I think PPI was presented as optional and that it was 
only applied to the account because Mr and Mrs I chose to take it out.
YBS say they didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs I. And I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest otherwise. This means YBS didnt have to take steps to check the PPI was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs I. So for example, they didnt need to take into account any existing 
repayment provisions Mr and Mrs I may have held at the time of the sale. 
But they did have to provide Mr and Mrs I with clear information so that they could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn Mr 
and Mrs Is attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
Its possible YBS didnt give Mr and Mrs I the information as they should have. This in itself 
doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information 
would have put them off taking PPI. I dont think it would have. This is because:
 
The PPI would have provided cover in addition to any redundancy pay Mr I would 
have been entitled to and would have continued to do so for up to 12 months. 
 
Mr I doesnt appear to have been affected by the exclusions/restrictions in the policy 
which would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the 
policy.  
 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs I.
 
Mr and Mrs I could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially.
 
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think YBS mis-sold Mr and Mrs I this 
PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint against Yorkshire Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman