DRN-2820061
The complaint
Miss T complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Loans) lent her a loan she 
couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
Everyday Loans lent Miss T a loan of £3000 in July 2020, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded Everyday Loans did not carry out proportionate checks and if it 
had done so it would have seen that Miss T couldnt afford the loan. I agree with the 
investigators findings for the same reasons. These are:
oEveryday Loans says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to 
Miss T. It says it asked her about her income and expenditure and conducted a credit 
search. It also used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to estimate her living 
costs.
oThe loan was due to be repaid over 24 monthly instalments of around £219 and Miss 
T asked for the loan for debt consolidation. When I look at Everyday Loans 
calculations, I can see that, on the surface of it, it had worked out that Miss T would 
have enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments. But the information 
that it gathered showed it that Miss T had taken out a significant amount of credit 
already, something that I think ought to have given Everyday Loans concerns. Miss T 
had according to Everyday Loans assessment £797.91 a month to repay in credit 
commitments. This was a high amount when I consider it had recorded down that 
Miss T had a monthly income of around £1132. Everyday Loans calculated that the 
amount Miss T would be repaying after consolidation would reduce down to around 
£415. But I think this is still a significant proportion of Miss Ts income each month. I 
think due to the size of the loan and the length of the term, it ought to have been 
concerned about what it saw and what it was being told, at least enough that it 
shouldve prompted it to want to find out more.
oEveryday Loans should have done more to ensure that Miss T could repay the loan 
repayments over the length of the loan term. This I think, should have included a 
complete review of her finances including breaking down and verifying her 
expenditure. As a responsible lender it ought to have done this once it had carried 
out its initial checks and seen the results from what it had gathered. I cant see that it 
did this or verify any of Miss Ts expenditure and so I dont think its checks went far 
enough. So, as I dont think it did enough, I need to consider what it would have seen 
if it had carried out proper checks.
oMiss T has provided copies of his bank statements from around 3 months before and 
then leading up to the start of the loan. Ive relied on this to give me an indication as 
to what Everyday Loans would have seen, as I think her bank statements provide a 
clear picture about her actual financial circumstances at the time. I agree with our 
investigator, I think Miss T had a lot more expenditure than Everyday Loans had 
assessed her to have and I dont think the loan was affordable for her, based on what 
her bank statements have shown me. Her average expenditure was around £1885 a 
month with credit repayments of around £700. Even with a debt consolidation, Miss T 
would still have, based on the bank statements she submitted to us, not been able to 
afford the loan repayments in a sustainable way. So, when I consider this all 
together, I think if Everyday Loans had carried out further checks it would have seen 
that Miss T was having problems managing her finances and that the loan 
repayments were not affordable and not sustainable over the 2-year loan term.  
oSo, it follows that I uphold Miss Ts complaint. Everyday Loans now needs to put 
things right.
Putting things right
While I think Everyday Loans shouldnt have lent to Miss T, I think it will be fair for her to 
repay the capital of £3000 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, Everyday Loans 
should:
add up all the payments made by Miss T, if it exceeds the capital amount of £3000, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Miss T, remove 
any adverse information recorded on Miss T credit file as a result of this loan.
If there is a balance outstanding, Everyday Loans should treat Miss T fairly and look 
to arrange a payment plan that is affordable for her. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Everyday Loans must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she 
asks it for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman