DRN-4433273
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc unfairly treated a claim on his pet 
insurance policy as a continuation of an earlier claim and so it wasnt paid in full.
My references to Pinnacle include its agents.
What happened
Mr S took out a policy with Pinnacle for his dog, B. He was introduced to Pinnacle by a third-
party introducer. The policy covered him for vets fees up to a maximum of £6,000 for each 
condition.
In June 2022 Mr S noticed that Bs back legs were shaking badly. In July B became lame 
when running after a rabbit. The vet said that B would need Tibial-plateau-levelling 
osteotomy surgery (TPLO) in the left back leg to correct the issue. The operation was carried 
out and Pinnacle paid £5,656.17 for the treatment. 
Mr S was advised that Bs right back leg would also need a TPLO at a later date because of 
a degenerative condition. When Mr S asked Pinnacle to approve the claim for the other 
TPLO, he was told the two claims would be treated as one condition and therefore subject to 
the £6,000 limit. That meant Pinnacle would only pay £343.83 towards the second operation.
Mr S complained to Pinnacle. He said when hed phoned to check whether the operations 
would be considered as two separate claims, he was given the impression they would be. 
He brought a separate complaint to this service about that. Another Ombudsman upheld his 
complaint and required Pinnacle to pay Mr S compensation of £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor administration and customer service.
Although Mr S provided evidence from his vet that the claims should be considered 
separately, Pinnacle didnt change its decision. Mr S brought his complaint to this service. 
He was also unhappy that his claim was reviewed by a veterinary nurse employed by 
Pinnacle. He thought the opinion of his vet should carry more weight than that of a nurse.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Pinnacle had treated Mr S 
unfairly. As Mr S didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr Ss complaint about the information he received from Pinnacle has already been 
considered by this service, I will not be looking at that. My role is to consider whether 
Pinnacle treated Mr S fairly in treating the costs of the most recent TPLO as a continuation 
claim rather than as a new condition.
The policy defined Condition as:
any illness or accidental injury whether or not it results in a diagnosis. There will be 
conditions that fall into the following categories:
1.Bilateral means any condition affecting right and left sides of your pet where there 
is an underlying cause. For example, hip dysplasia for hips, ear inflammation (otitis) 
for ears, cruciate ligament disease, or luxation of the kneecaps (patellae).
2.Recurring means any previous condition or symptom that may come back or is 
likely to happen to your pet again. For example, this could be repeating episodes of 
diarrhoea, vomiting or injures to claws.
3.Related means if a number of symptoms are:
Subsequently diagnosed as one condition; or
Caused by, related to or a result of another condition or symptom.
For example, a related condition could be excessive drinking as a symptom of diabetes. 
We would consider this as one condition not two.
When applying a maximum benefit or exclusion we will consider bilateral, recurring or 
related conditions as one condition.
I think this definition is clear. 
Mr Ss original vet said The right cruciate injury appears to have been a chronic 
degenerative condition which has been exacerbated during the recovery and demands of 
recovery after the TPLO surgery on the LHS [left hand side]. He said the underlying causes 
appeared to be different for each leg and the injury to the left back leg had been caused by 
trauma. 
However, it remains the case that according to Bs clinical history in July 2022 there were 
concerns about B struggling on her legs at times and her back leg muscles were shaking. It 
seems clear that at this time the vet noticed an issue with both back legs.
In August 2022 B was referred to a specialist who noted:
Orthopaedics assessment showed bilateral painful stifle effusion
Radiograph showed suspected partial or complete cranial cruciate ligament rupture 
bilaterally.
Diagnosis: Bilateral stifles and left elbow joint disease. 
The original vet carried out TPLO surgery on the left leg in September 2022. The notes say: 
Admit for TPLO LHS has been well. No concerns lame LHS, but possibly also RHS, suspect 
bilateral cruciate disease.
On balance I think the evidence reasonably suggests that B had bilateral cruciate disease. 
Im therefore satisfied that it was not unreasonable for Pinnacle to regard B as suffering from 
a bilateral condition and so treat the claims as subject to one monetary limit.
I can understand why Mr S thinks the opinion from his vet should carry more weight than that 
of Pinnacles veterinary nurse. But Pinnacle relied on the nurse to consider all the veterinary 
evidence and come to a conclusion on the claim in the light of the policy terms. I dont think 
you have to be a vet in order to carry out that role.Whilst I am sorry to hear of the circumstances that have led to Mr Ss complaint, having 
considered all the evidence, I dont think Pinnacle treated him unfairly in relying on the policy 
terms to class the second claim as a continuation of the first.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman