DRN-4086562
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Think Money Limited wont refund payments she didnt make.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
Think Money has refused to refund these unauthorised payments under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) because it asserts Ms A failed with gross 
negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep her personalised 
security details safe.
In saying that, its pointed to how Ms A shared her memorable phrase and two 
passcodes with a third party despite warnings not to. Its also pointed to scam 
warnings it displayed when you open its banking app, and how Ms A didnt report her 
concerns after the scam call or the unrecognised 1p transactions made in the days 
leading up to most of the fraudulent payments. 
To assess whether Ms A failed with gross negligence, Ive reflected on the 
circumstances of the scam. She received a call from someone who said they were 
from Think Moneys fraud team. The number had the right area code for Think Money 
and Ms A recalled how they took her through seemingly routine security questions. 
Given this familiarity, I can see how she was persuaded the call was genuine. 
Ms A remembered being told about two attempted fraudulent transactions. She was 
asked to follow their instructions to confirm her identity and add further security to the 
account. 
Ive reflected on Ms As panic and trust in the caller, as well as how, like most people, 
she wasnt an expert in fraud. Taking this all into account, I can understand how the 
situation seemed plausible at the time, and why she followed their instructions, 
believing she was doing the right thing to protect her account.  
In saying that, I recognise there were warnings in Think Moneys messages as well 
as on its banking app. And of course, its possible to criticise Ms As actions given 
these. But Im wary of the benefit of hindsight. Here, Ms A was acting in the heat of 
the moment, panicked about fraud. In these circumstances, I can understand how 
she couldve overlooked the overall content of the messages and simply focused on 
following the callers instructions. Similarly, when she believed she needed to act 
hastily, I can see how she didnt recall in the moment previous warnings shed been 
given in the app.
Ive also considered the overall sophistication of the scam. This wasnt a chancer. 
Instead, this appears to have been a cleverly designed scam where the fraudsters 
were well-versed in Think Moneys operations and knew what information they 
needed and how to effectively trick Ms A into sharing it. 
Ive noted Think Moneys concerns that Ms A didnt report this after her son raised 
concerns about the call. It seems she tried to contact Think Money  she was on hold 
for well over an hour. And given that her account appeared the same at that time, I 
can see how she didnt follow it up. Equally, I can see why Ms A wasnt overly 
concerned for the 1p transactions  their insignificant accounts likely falsely 
reassured her that something wasnt amiss. It follows that I dont think this means 
she seriously disregarded an obvious risk.
Taking this all into account, Ive not been persuaded that Ms A acted with very 
significant carelessness to conclude she failed with gross negligence. 
It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider Ms A can be fairly held liable for 
these unauthorised payments and Think Money needs to put things right  by 
refunding her losses from the payments alongside 8% simple interest per year to 
compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms As complaint. Think Money Limited must: 
Pay Ms A the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or 
refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman