DRN-3861429
The complaint
Mr A and Mr F complain about the customer service theyve received from Rock Insurance 
Services Limited.
As Mr F brought the complaint to us, for ease of reading, Ive referred mainly to him.
What happened
Mr F and Mr A took out an annual travel insurance policy through Rock. 
In June 2022, Mr F called Rock because he wanted to discuss some medical conditions. He 
says he was on-hold for over an hour and, when he did get through, he was told that a call 
back would have to be arranged, as the office was closing. Mr F was unhappy with the 
service hed received and he made a complaint to Rock.
Rock didnt respond to Mr Fs complaint and so he asked us to look into his concerns.
Our investigator asked Rock to provide its file of evidence. But despite chase-ups from the 
investigator, Rock didnt respond. So the investigator assessed the complaint based on the 
information Mr F had provided. He thought that Mr F had been caused some distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the service hed received from Rock. So he recommended that 
Rock should pay Mr F £100 compensation.
Mr F accepted the investigators recommendation. But Rock didnt respond to the 
assessment and nor did it provide any further evidence or comments. So the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Rock has treated Mr F fairly and Ill explain why.
First, its important I explain that as Rock neither provided us with its file, nor with any 
response to our investigators assessment, despite chasers, Ive necessarily had to make my 
decision based only the information Mr F has given us. Based on that information, I think that 
Rock has caused some him unnecessary trouble and inconvenience, as Ill go on to explore.
It seems that Mr F tried to call Rock to discuss medical conditions, as he wanted to ensure 
he was covered for a forthcoming trip. Hes said that he waited on hold for over an hour, 
before being told that the office was closing and that Rock would need to arrange a call-
back. I dont doubt that this caused Mr F some frustration and incurred some call costs.
However, I think Rock went on to compound its service failings here. Mr F made a complaint 
to Rock on 30 June 2022 about the call waiting times hed experienced. However, it doesnt 
appear that Rock addressed Mr Fs concerns or issued a final response to his complaint in 
line with the regulators rules. Mr F chased up Rocks final response in mid-August 2022 and 
was assured, in early September 2022, that his complaint was being handled. But to date, it 
doesnt appear that Rock ever responded to Mr Fs complaint. In my view, Rock put Mr F to 
additional time and inconvenience in needing to chase-up Rocks response to his complaint. 
And Ive no doubt that it caused him further frustration when no response was forthcoming. 
Overall then, I agree with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Rock to 
pay Mr F compensation for the trouble and inconvenience its customer service errors have 
caused him. And I too find that £100 is a fair award to reflect the impact I think Rocks 
service failings had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Rock Financial Services Limited to pay Mr F and Mr A £100 compensation.
Rock must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mr F and 
Mr A accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman