DRN-3694433
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him several package 
bank accounts.
What happened
Mr Js account history is as follows:
free account held
changed to an Additions account in September 2007
changed to a Premier Life account in February 2009
changed to an Additions account in April 2009 
migrated to a free account with Tech Pack in January 2017
changed to a free account in October 2020
Barclays has already made an offer for the sale of the first Additions account in September 
2007. It has also been established that the sale of the Additions account in April 2009 is 
outside of the scope of our jurisdiction.
One of our adjudicators considered the sale of the Premier account in February 2009 and 
the migration to the free account with Tech Pack in January 2017 but didnt think Barclays 
had done anything wrong. Mr J disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My decision will look at the sale of the Premier Life account in February 2009 and the 
migration from the Additions account to the free account with Tech Pack in January 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
I will now look at the sale of the Premier Life account in February 2009 and the migration to 
the free account with Tech Pack in January 2017 in turn.
Premiere Life account 2009
Mr J has told us that he was not given a fair choice when taking the account, he was told he 
would get an overdraft or a loan, and he cant remember agreeing to the account. Barclays 
have told us that it did not recommended the account to Mr J. 
I have looked at the information available and I dont have enough to say Barclays provided 
a tailored recommendation to Mr J to take Premier Life account, so Barclays didnt have to 
make sure the account was right for him. But Barclays did have to give Mr J enough 
information so he could decide if the account met his needs at the time.
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said at the time the account was sold to 
Mr J but Barclays has provided a copy of a form Mr J completed at the time he agreed to the 
account. The form explained Mr J was opening an account that cost £25 each month and 
that it came with a range of benefits. The form also confirmed that a welcome pack was 
being sent to Mr J.
It was clear in this letter that the Mr J was going to be paying for the benefit of the account 
and he agreed to take this account by signing the form. I think its likely the benefits of 
having the account were discussed in some detail as I think its unlikely Mr J would have 
agreed to sign a form to pay for an account without knowing at least some of the benefits 
that came with it.
Mr J had an overdraft facility before he agreed to the Premier Life account so although he 
says he was told he would get an overdraft with the account I think he would have known he 
didnt have to have the account to hold an overdraft facility.
Mr J also says he was told he could get a loan if he took the Premier Life account. But I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr J applied for a loan around the time he agreed to the 
account, so I think its unlikely he was given this information either.
At the time Mr J applied for the Premiere Life account it came with a range of benefits that 
included breakdown cover (including European cover), worldwide travel insurance, mobile 
phone insurance, domestic emergency cover, extended warranty, accidental death benefit, 
gadget cover, cardholder protection, up to £1000 interest free overdraft with preferential 
rates above that, will writing service, legal helpline, Airport VIP Lounge access, Barclays 
Lifestyle Management, identity support advice, and optional childrens healthcare cover.
Mr J has told us he doesnt drive or travel outside of the UK and doesnt have a mobile 
phone with a value worth insuring so couldnt utilise the benefits relating to driving, travelling 
and mobile phones. But package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual, so its not 
uncommon to find customers that are not able to use all the benefits the account provides. 
This does not mean the account was mis-sold. 
As Ive outlined above, the Premier Life account came with a wide range of benefits and I 
cant see that Mr J wouldnt have been eligible for the benefits. I think its likely some of the 
benefits the account came with would have seemed attractive when Mr J took the account 
and he chose to have it based on the information he was provided, and knowing his 
circumstances at the time.
So, I dont think this account was mis-sold.
Migration to free account with Tech Pack in January 2017
In January 2017 Mr Js account was migrated from a fee-paying Additions account to a 
Barclays bank account with Tech Pack. Barclays has explained the change to Mr Js
account took place because of a review carried out of the accounts it offered its customers.
The result of this review was that Barclays decided to no longer offer the Additions package 
bank account to its customers.
This type of review is not uncommon, and changes made as part of a review are generally
considered fair. Although when changes such as this are made, we expect Barclays to give 
notice to its customers and explain the options that are available.In support of Barclays following the correct procedures it has sent us evidence from the time
Mr Js account was changed.
On 29 September 2016 Barclays wrote to Mr J explaining his Additions account would be 
changing to a Barclays Bank Account with Tech Pack on 13 January 2017. The letter 
outlined the cost of the account and the benefits that came with it.
The letter also gave Mr J several options. One of these options was:
If you decide you don't want these changes, let us know before 12 January 2017 that you 
want to change your account to a Barclays Bank Account without Tech Pack. By not opting 
for Tech Pack, your account will still become a Barclays Bank Account  with no monthly 
account fee  but your insurance benefits will end. If you have an arranged overdraft, 
although your limit wont change, no part of your overdraft limit will be fee free.
I think this letter clearly explained Mr J was able to change his account to a fee-free account 
if he wanted to, however he would lose the benefits that came with the package bank 
account.
Barclays wrote to Mr J again on 20 January 2017 referring to the previous letter it had sent 
on 29 September 2016. The letter confirmed his account had now changed to a Barclays 
account with Tech Pack. The letter also stated:
Packs are optional, so you can remove Tech Pack or add other Packs at any time
So, with the above in mind I think Mr J would have been aware he did not have to have the 
package bank account, and Barclays met the obligations it had to Mr J when it made the 
decision to migrate his account to the Barclays account with Tech Pack.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman