DRN-3915251
The complaint
Mr R and Miss V are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined claims they 
made on a travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R has a bank account with a company Ill refer to as M. Hes the cardholder for the 
account. The account comes with a number of benefits, including travel insurance. Mr Rs 
legal partner, Miss V, is entitled to access some of benefits linked to the account. 
Miss V made two claims on the travel insurance policy. The first was for cutting a trip short 
and the second was for cancelling a separate trip. The claims were declined because Mr R, 
as the cardholder, wasnt travelling with Miss V. 
Mr R complained to IPA as he was unhappy with the handling of the claim and the decision 
to decline it. IPA maintained their decision to decline the claim. However, they did 
acknowledge that there had been delays in handling the claim and awarded Mr R £125 in 
compensation. Unhappy, Mr R made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr Rs complaint in part. She 
thought the offer of £125 compensation was fair for the poor claims handling, but she didnt 
think IPA had fairly declined the claims. In summary, she said that the policy wording didnt 
make it clear that Miss V wasnt covered by the travel insurance policy if she was travelling 
without Mr R. 
Mr R accepted the investigators findings but said he thought IPA should pay more 
compensation for the delays in handling the claims. IPA asked for an ombudsman to make a 
decision. They said that the benefits apply to cardholders and are dependent on the 
customer being a cardholder for the benefits to apply. 
Following the case being referred for decision Mr R got in touch to say that hed received a 
letter confirming he was going to receive a further £150 for the same complaint. He said this 
demonstrates further failings on IPAs part. Our investigator contacted IPA to clarify why 
Mr R had received this letter offering further compensation. The investigator let IPA know 
that if they didnt respond Id make my decision on the basis that this was an error. IPA didnt 
respond. 
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to decide is whether IPA unfairly declined Miss Vs claims because she 
wasnt travelling with Mr R. 
The starting point is the policy documentation. On page 3 it says: 
INTRODUCTION
This document is not a contract of insurance but summarises the benefits provided to 
you by virtue of your holding a M Premium Card through M. The provision of those 
benefits is enabled by an insurance policy held by and issued to M by Inter Partner 
Assistance. 
M is the only Policyholder under the insurance Policy and only it has direct rights 
against the insurer under the policy. This agreement does not give you direct rights 
under the Policy of Insurance, it enables you, as a M Cardholder to receive 
benefits. Strict compliance with the terms and conditions of this agreement is 
required if you are to receive its benefit. 
ELIGIBILITY 
The benefits summarised in this document are dependent on you being a valid M 
Cardholder at the time of any incident giving rise to a claim. M will give you notice if 
there are any material changes to these terms and conditions or of the Policy 
supporting the benefits available under this agreement is cancelled or expires without 
renewal on equivalent terms. 
This is your benefit guide and agreement with us. It contains details of benefits, 
conditions and exclusions relating to M Cardholders and is the basis on which all 
claims you make will be settled. 
On page 7 You/Your/Beneficiary(ies) is defined as: 
The Cardholder and his/her spouse or legal partner (any couple in a common law 
relationship living permanently at the same address), their unmarried children, aged 
under 19, or age 19 to 21 if in full time education, who are legally and financially 
dependent (according to the country of residence) on the Cardholder, all living in 
the country of residence and travelling on a trip. 
Did IPA unfairly decline Miss Vs claim? 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And, it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think IPA has fairly declined Miss Vs claims. I say that because: 
IPA says that the documents didnt form the contract of insurance  its a summary of 
the benefits. The information Miss V was provided with was entitled, Your Travel 
Insurance. And it sets out the circumstances in which beneficiaries of the policy 
could claim, and relevant information about the policy limits and exclusions. So, I 
think its reasonable for Miss V to have relied on this information.
I think the wording of the travel insurance information is ambiguous as to which 
beneficiaries are covered under the travel insurance policy and under what 
circumstances they can claim. 
In any event, its also unusual for a travel insurance policy of this type to contain a 
requirement for the beneficiaries of a policy to travel together in order to claim on the 
policy. Id expect that to be clearly and prominently highlighted in the information 
provided to Mr R and Miss V.  I dont think it was made clear to Miss V, from the information provided about the 
travel insurance, that she wasnt covered unless she travelled with Mr R. Its not 
clearly or prominently explained in the information she was given about the travel 
insurance. Miss V would have had to cross refer between different sections of the 
policy to understand that shed need to travel with Mr R in order to successfully claim 
on it. 
This limitation of cover isnt highlighted on the Insurance Product Information 
Document which summarises the key information about what is, and isnt covered, 
under the policy.
I think that if this information had been made clear to Miss V its most likely shed 
have arranged alternative travel insurance cover for her two trips, as she was 
travelling without Mr R. Shed have then had the benefit of travel insurance cover for 
cutting short one trip and cancelling the other. Shes now out of pocket for those 
expenses and I dont think thats fair. 
Delays in claims handling
Mr R felt IPA should pay more compensation. I understand the delays in handling the claims 
were frustrating and caused Mr R and Miss V to worry. But I think the compensation of £125 
offered in IPAs original final response letter fairly reflects the impact of the delays in 
handling the claims up to that point. 
IPA hasnt explained why it recently awarded more compensation to Mr R. Based on the 
evidence I have I think that payment was paid in error. Taking into account the overall 
circumstances of this complaint I dont think IPA should seek to recover this additional 
payment from Miss V and Mr R if it has already been made to them.  
Im not directing IPA to make any further payment in relation to the handling of the claims.  
Putting things right
To put things right I think IPA needs to reassess Miss Vs claims and settle them in line with 
the remaining policy terms and conditions.  
My final decision
Im upholding Mr R and Miss Vs complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA and direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss V 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman