DRN-3872185
The complaint
Ms C complains National House-Building Council trading as NHBC turned down a claim she 
made on a buildings warranty policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here except to say Ms C made a claim to NHBC for it to deal with cracking in her property. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 9 December 2022. I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
Ms C has explained she was assured by both the builders of the property and NHBC 
literature, that she could expect to see settling cracks in the property in the first few 
years after completion. I dont think it was unreasonable for Ms C to think this as it is 
quite usual for it to happen. Nor do I think Ms C would have the relevant experience 
or expertise to be in a position to be able to differentiate between settling, and 
structural cracking.
Ms C has given testimony which has remained consistent and which I find persuasive 
regarding the types of cracks that appeared in the property over time. And Im 
satisfied this explains why she later reported the larger cracking in 2017.
Ms C answered the cracking questionnaire honestly, as she had reported cracks to 
the builder during the first two years. However, this doesnt mean the cracking she 
later reported to NHBC was the same or does it automatically mean the builder 
misdiagnosed the cause of the cracking previously. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
persuaded its as likely that settling cracks did appear quite soon after the property 
was completed and that the likely structural cracking which Ms C reported to NHBC, 
only presented itself much later
Bearing in mind my above points, I also I dont think it is reasonable for NHBC to 
decline the claim based solely on the answer Ms C gave in the cracking 
questionnaire and the fact a report paraphrased this situation later on.
Ms C has explained there was a delay in providing information to NHBC due to some 
personal issues which required her attention. Having considered this, I dont think it 
was an avoidable delay on her part. She has also explained that the managing agent 
of the property changed around the time the claim was reported and this prevented 
her from obtaining some of the information NHBC required.
The fact the policy has now lapsed doesnt mean NHBC should not deal with the 
claim. It was initially registered when the policy was live and therefore it is one that 
should be dealt with.
Having considered everything, I think it is more likely than not Ms C presented a valid 
claim under Section 3 of the policy. And therefore, bearing in mind what I have said 
above, on a fair and reasonable basis I think NHBC should now consider that claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Responses to my provisional findings
Ms C said she accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
NHBC said that Ms C first contacted it in 2017 but it didnt become aware of the builders 
involvement until 2020 so it was prevented from engaging with them earlier. It says the 
timeline of events isnt entirely clear but the evidence available suggested the cracking was 
in the same locations and therefore would remain the responsibility of the builder to rectify.
However, NHBC recognises that further investigation could be warranted to see if the cracks 
were the same as initially reported at building completion, and/or if they are now in different 
areas. NHBC requested that Ms C be asked to provide such evidence before it is considered 
if the claim should fall under Section 3 of the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NHBC has said Ms C didnt make it aware of the builders previous involvement in 2017 and 
when she did so in 2020 the policy had expired. So by that point it was too late to consider 
the claim under Section two of the policy, and it was therefore prevented from engaging with 
the builder about the issues by using its resolution service. NHBC explains that given the 
cracking was reported during the first two years of the warranty policy, the builder should 
retain some liability for the repairs. 
I understand NHBCs position here and why it would be favourable to have considered the 
claim under Section 2 of the policy. However, I also have to be mindful that it didnt ask this 
question of Ms C in 2017, nor is this question on the cracking questionnaire that she was 
sent and was returned in 2019. NHBC is more knowledgeable of the policy cover than Ms C 
and therefore I think the onus should have been on it to ask the correct questions at the 
earliest opportunity. Here it appears NHBC is trying to limit its liability by relying on the fact 
Ms C didnt provide a response to an email until 2020, however I dont think this is fair. 
As part of my consideration of the complaint I sought evidence as to the cracking that was 
initially reported, in order to consider whether this should in fact be a claim more suited to be 
correctly considered under Section two of the policy. However, that evidence cant be 
obtained. Ms C explained that she moved into the property in the early stages of the 
development when the rest of the houses were still being built. The area was therefore 
unfinished with builders remaining on site. So, when she reported any snagging issues (and 
cracking) all she needed to do was make a telephone call and someone was sent. She has 
confirmed that no photos were taken until required for the cracking questionnaire in 2017.  
So, where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as it is here, I have to consider what I 
think more likely than not happened on the balance of probabilities.  And here, as set out in 
my provisional decision, I have concluded it is more likely than not the structural cracking 
presented itself after year two of the policy and therefore was not the same as initially 
reported by Ms C. 
So, having considered everything, I think on the balance of probabilities this claim should be dealt with by NHBC under Section 3 of the policy cover.  
Putting things right
NHBC should now deal with Ms Cs claim under Section 3 of the policy and in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint against National House-Building Council 
trading as NHBC. It should put things right as I have set out in the section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman