DRN-3936609
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) excluded medical conditions 
for their son on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a travel insurance policy alongside their bank current account. The 
policy is underwritten by Aviva.
They were due to go on a family holiday in August 2022. They contacted Aviva by telephone 
in April 2022 to upgrade their travel policy and to update their family medical histories. This 
was all taken down by Aviva. 
Mr and Mrs D were then told by Aviva less than two weeks before their departure date that 
their sons medical conditions wouldnt be covered. So, they had to find an alternative travel 
policy for their son, and it became very stressful for them. Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs D 
couldnt find an alternative policy and they went on their holiday without cover for their sons 
medical conditions. 
Mr and Mrs D said they wanted their son to be insured for his medical conditions when he 
turns 18 as thats when his condition parameters were deemed to be normal. They would 
also like compensation for the stress and worry caused to them so near to their departure 
date. 
They made a complaint to Aviva. It said when Mrs D called in April 2022 and went through 
the medical conditions and upgrade the policy, the advisor should have taken their sons 
medical conditions or results of his blood tests through a medical risk assessment. It said the 
service provided was poor and had the conditions been taken through a risk assessment, 
they would have been excluded as he hadnt yet had a diagnosis and the results were being 
investigated. Aviva apologised and accepted the service provided was poor. It offered 
Mr and Mrs D £75 compensation for this. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs D contacted Aviva again, who confirmed that if they were due to go on 
a future trip, they would again have to contact it to go through a medical risk assessment  
including their son. And, if there was no diagnosis made, the conditions would be excluded. 
Aviva increased the offer of compensation to £100 total. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed and brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She concluded that Aviva should have gone through a 
medical risk assessment for their sons conditions and had it done so, the conditions would 
have been excluded because he didnt have a diagnosis. She agreed the time just before 
they went on holiday was stressful as they had to look for alternative cover for their son. 
Aviva hadnt done anything wrong to exclude those symptoms, but it should have taken their 
sons conditions through a medical risk assessment. Had it done this, the conditions would 
have been excluded. Our investigator said £100 compensation was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, 
its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether Aviva did anything wrong in excluding 
Mr and Mrs Ds sons medical conditions.
Ive listened to the call Mrs D had in April 2022. Mrs D called Aviva to upgrade her policy and 
to declare the familys medical conditions. The call lasted almost one hour and went through 
Mrs Ds, Mr Ds and their sons medical conditions. 
The conditions were put through a screening process to assess the medical risk, and this 
was done for both Mr and Mrs D. 
With regards to their son, Mrs D said he had been diagnosed with Long Covid. The advisor 
took all his medical information from Mrs D. Following having Covid-19, he had blood tests 
which said he had low iron and had haemoglobin and he was under observation. Mrs D said 
there was no confirmation the blood test results were related to Covid-19 or Long Covid and 
nothing had been confirmed. There was no medical screening done by the advisor for the 
blood tests and the next blood test was due in July 2022 which Mrs D said they should 
normalise, and he should be discharged. With regards to their son, the other medical 
conditions declared had been accepted. 
Having listened to the call, Mr and Mrs Ds son had not had a diagnosis and he also wasnt 
put through a medical screening as all the other conditions had during the call. This was an 
error on the advisors part and had she done this, their son would have been excluded for 
the blood tests being investigated. 
I understand that having then been told that he wasnt covered two weeks before the trip 
was worrying and stressful because Mr and Mrs D had to find an alternative policy. I agree 
the service provided by Aviva was poor and created unnecessary stress for the family. But, 
in terms of making sure their son is covered for any future trips, this will be subject to further 
medical screening at the time of booking another trip. All the medical information will need to 
be provided to Aviva in order for it to make a decision on what will and wont be covered. I 
acknowledge Mr and Mrs D would like to cover every eventuality, but this isnt how insurance 
works. Im not persuaded that Aviva should provide a guarantee on any future cover for Mr 
and Mrs D and their family and this will be subject to any updated medical information they 
provide at the time of any future trips. 
Aviva offered £100 for the trouble and upset caused and the poor service provided. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate Mr and Mrs D will be 
disappointed, but their son was covered while on the trip for all the conditions that were 
declared except for the undiagnosed condition from the blood test results. This would have 
been excluded had the medical screening been done correctly in April 2022. And while they 
tried to look for an alternative cover for their son, they werent able to find a policy that would 
cover this as the blood test results were under observation and hadnt been diagnosed. So 
Aviva excluding this wasnt unusual and exclusive to Aviva.
Overall, taking everything into account, while I think the service Aviva provided could have 
been better, I dont think it has done anything wrong in excluding an undiagnosed condition 
for their son. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman