DRN-3838829
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) unfairly 
declined his claim for reimbursement of transactions he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr J reported a number of transactions totalling around £6,000 on his 
business Barclaycard as being fraudulent. The details of the transactions in question are 
known to both parties and were set out by our investigator in her view.
Barclaycard initially credited Mr Js account with a refund for the transactions, but later 
reversed the refund after completing its review. It issued a final response to Mr J on 19 
October 2020, in which it explained it had declined his claim because the payments were 
due to employee misuse. It credited his account with £100 as compensation for giving him 
incorrect information regarding the refund, and for the poor customer journey he had 
experienced.
Mr J didnt accept Barclaycards outcome, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked at the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said the following in 
support of her outcome:
1. There was no likely point of compromise for Mr Js PIN;
2. Many of the transactions Mr J disputed were payments to merchants he had paid in 
the months before his card was reported as missing; and
3. That the pattern of spending wasnt out of the ordinary, compared to his legitimate 
transaction history.
In short, she felt it was more likely than not that Mr J had authorised the disputed 
transactions himself. Mr J didnt accept our investigators findings, so he asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In simple terms, if Im to uphold Mr Js complaint, Id need to be persuaded that he didnt 
authorise the transactions in question. That is to say that he didnt make the
transactions himself, or give someone permission to make the transactions. 
Whoever made the transactions in dispute will have had to have had Mr Js physical card, 
and know his PIN. So Ive looked at the evidence available to see if both of these could have 
been compromised.
Mr J says he suspected the card was taken by an ex-employee of his who Ill call H. He said 
H attended his office  where both his wallet and PIN were kept  immediately before the 
transactions started. H had returned to carry out some short-term work for Mr J, and had 
attended Mr Js office to collect the balance of the pay he was owed. Mr J says he gave H 
cash and asked him to go to the shop to buy him some cigarettes. He believes H took the 
card from him that day.
Its hard to say with any degree of confidence whether the card was stolen at that point 
because the only evidence I have is Mr Js version of events, but I accept that its at least 
possible. So, Ive thought about how the PIN could have been compromised to see if that 
supports Mr Js theory. 
Mr J says his PIN was on a computer system and thinks H could have taken it either when 
he originally worked for Mr J, or when he returned in January 2020. However, there have 
been inconsistencies in Mr Js version of events. 
He originally told our service that all of his employees, including H, had access to a 
password protected database on his PC that held his PIN. And that he hadnt changed the 
password after H had stopped working for Mr J 7 months or so previously. If that was true, H 
could either have remembered Mr Js PIN from his initial employment, or accessed it in 
January 2020, when he met Mr J again.
However, Mr J later said only his IT person and his personal assistant had access to the 
password, and that he changed the password as a matter of course after an employee who 
had access to that database left his employment. Because Mr J has presented two directly 
conflicting versions of events, its difficult to assess which is correct, or indeed if either are 
correct. 
Mr J has also provided evidence that conflicts with what he says happened on the day H 
attended his office. Ive seen an email from 5 February 2020 that Mr J sent to H entitled I 
know what youve done and what youve stolen. The email shows Hs reply, but the 
contents of Mr Js first email have been removed. H recalls what happened and says he 
went to the shop on 13 January 2020 and bought cigarettes with Mr Js Barclaycard.
Mr J told our service he gave H cash to buy the cigarettes, but his statements show a 
transaction recorded the next day for a purchase at the shop he buys cigarettes from. Which 
corroborates Hs story. I dont have data from Barclaycard to show the true date of the 
transaction, but its very common for transactions to show on credit card statements the day 
after they were made so Im satisfied that evidence is more persuasive than Mr Js, given Mr 
Js other inconsistencies.
If that was the case, that would mean that Mr J voluntarily gave H his card and PIN to buy 
cigarettes. And, while Mr J says he didnt authorise any of the transactions in dispute, our 
service would consider H to have apparent authority in those circumstances. That is to say 
that his actions gave rise to circumstances that appeared to the bank that the transactions 
were made with Mr Js authority, even if he didnt expressly consent to every transaction.
There is further evidence to support that position. 7 of the transactions Mr J disputes were to 
merchants he had paid in the preceding 3 months. Which would support the idea that he had 
given his card to H to make payments on his behalf (or the idea that Mr J made the 
transactions himself). And Ive seen no evidence to persuade me H would have made 
payments to the same merchants as Mr J. On the evidence, thats too much of a coincidence 
to be a plausible explanation. And while Mr J says he had no reason to make cash 
withdrawals, and never had done before, if H made those cash withdrawals for his own 
benefit, he would have apparent authority as Ive set out above, and so the bank wouldnt be 
liable to reimburse Mr J.
Ive also looked at the pattern of spending to see if it is suspicious. The ATM withdrawals are unusual on this account and I accept they were out of character in the context of Mr Js usual 
spending. But the 7 payments to regularly used merchants dont reconcile with the idea that 
the card was used without Mr Js permission. And the pattern of spending doesnt match 
what I might expect to see of a fraudster. 
A more typical fraud pattern would be numerous high value transactions, that continued with 
close regularity. And I would normally expect to see a fraudster seek to maximise the benefit 
quickly. But the payments were spread evenly over a thirteen-day period and didnt even get 
close to the cards transaction limit. In fact, the value of the spending was comparable to Mr 
Js usual spending on the account. Which doesnt fit the pattern Id expect to see in an 
instance of fraud.
Ive also attached less weight to Mr Js version of events because his evidence has been 
inconsistent. Ive set out examples above, but there are also further examples. Mr J told our 
service Barclaycard had declined his claim because it was employee fraud, and said he had 
no idea where theyd got that idea. But Ive seen a form he completed on 16 July 2020 
where he says the card was taken by an ex member of staff. And he sent an email to H on 6 
February 2020 entitled I know what youve done and what youve stolen.
Further, Mr J told our service he noticed his card had been missing for a few days before 
Barclaycard called him to query one of the transactions on his account. But he later said he 
only realised his card was missing when Barclaycard called him.
I should make it clear at this point that Im not accusing Mr J of lying to the bank or our 
service. I simply have to weigh all evidence submitted by both parties and reach an outcome 
on the balance of probabilities. Just because Mr Js evidence has been inconsistent, doesnt 
mean hes lying. His memory might have faded over time, or he might simply be mistaken 
and possess a strong belief that what he says is correct.
But the inconsistencies do make his testimony less reliable, which is why (combined with the 
other evidence Ive seen) I dont attach as much weight to it as I might otherwise do.
Ultimately, while I do accept its possible that the transactions werent authorised by Mr J, I 
think its more likely than not that they were. Im not persuaded theres a good enough 
explanation of how Mr Js card and PIN were compromised. And I find the evidence to 
support the proposition that Mr J carried out the transactions to be more persuasive than the 
evidence to support the idea that Mr Js card was used without his authority.
It is possible that the transactions were carried out by H with Mr Js apparent authority. But 
Im not persuaded that was the case on the balance of probabilities. This is because of the 
inconsistency of Mr Js evidence combined with the fact he says he didnt give his card to H, 
as well as the pattern of spending.
Mr J has queried why the ATM withdrawals didnt trigger Barclaycards fraud system. That 
would be a consideration if I thought it was more likely than not that Mr J didnt authorise 
those transactions. But because I think he did, it follows that an earlier interruption wouldnt 
have prevented unauthorised transactions. This would have been a consideration if Id 
concluded Mr J gave his card to H but forgot to ask for it back, only for H to then use the 
card for his own benefit. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded by the 
evidence that that was more likely than not to have happened.
Finally, Im satisfied £100 is sufficient compensation for the delay and customer service 
issues Mr J experienced, so I wont ask Barclaycard to increase its compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman