DRN-3710817
The complaint
This complaint is about how Santander UK Plc (Santander) treated Mr M when he called to 
discuss a mortgage he holds jointly with Mrs M.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have an interest only mortgage with Santander that matured in 
December 2021. As Mr and Mrs M were not able to clear the balance at this time, Santander 
sent correspondence to confirm the outstanding arrears needed to be paid. 
On 27 June 2022, Mr M phoned Santander about a letter theyd received, which informed 
them a field agent would be sent to their home concerning the arrears. Mr M says he swore 
during the call and as a result, the call was terminated. 
Mr M called again on 11 July 2022 because they received another letter. Mr M says the 
representative denied that he was the same person hed previously spoken to. He says the 
representative was rude to him and terminated the call again. Mr M says Santander should 
right off the outstanding balance on the mortgage account to compensate him for his 
experience.
Santander looked into Mr Ms complaint and agreed the call could have been handled better. 
It offered to waive the fee of the field agent and compensate Mr and Mrs M with £50.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ms concerns, but they didnt think that Santander needed to 
do anything more. As Mr M disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the first phone call Mr M had with the Santander representative on 
27 June 2022. The representative spent most of the call identifying Mr M, completing 
security checks, and updating Mr Ms contact preferences. Once this was done, Mr M began 
explaining the reason for his call  he was frustrated that hed received a letter dated 
19 June 2022 advising him of a fee he would be charged for the field agent to visit his home 
due to the outstanding arrears on his mortgage. 
Mr M swore directly at the representative and was immediately asked to watch his language. 
Mr M swore directly at the call handler again, so the representative said that he was going to 
warn Mr M one more time not to use that language again or he would terminate the call. 
Mr M responded and then it sounds like Mr M ended the call himself and this is whats 
reflected in the representatives notes.
I dont think the representative did anything wrong in this call. Santanders employees, like 
anyone else, do not have to tolerate abuse under any circumstances. The representative 
remained professional in giving Mr M a chance to correct his behaviour and it seems more 
likely than not that Mr M ended the call himself. 
Mr M phoned Santander again on 11 July 2022 and I have also listened to this call. Mr M 
was transferred a couple of times and eventually ended up speaking to the same 
representative he spoke to on 27 June 2022. The representative had Mr Ms account details, 
but its not clear whether they initially remembered Mr M or the previous call which happened 
two weeks earlier. 
The representative introduced himself to Mr M and asked what plans Mr M had made to 
repay the outstanding mortgage balance. Mr M said he was trying his best and that he had 
previously been told he could have a deal to pay it off, but hes now been told he cant. The 
representative confirmed Santander would not offer a deal. Mr M swore, but this was ignored 
by the representative. 
After a brief discussion about Mr Ms income, the representative recommended Mr M pay as 
much as he can, when he can, and that Mr M keep Santander updated with how things are 
going. They explained this would help prevent Mr M from getting the letters hed been 
receiving. So, at this point, Im satisfied the representative was attempting to help Mr M. 
The conversation then turned to the fee for the field agent which would be charged. The 
representative had explained what the fee was for and went on to say it could have been 
avoided if Mr M had called to discuss the previous letter hed received. Mr M said that he did 
call to discuss it and sounded distressed, there were some loud banging noises and Mr M 
said that the person he spoke to cut him off but that he did call. He told the representative to 
look back at the records for the call. 
At this point, the representative confirmed the fee would still be payable. Mr M then said he 
had recorded the name of who he spoke to and that he had discussed the letter and a fee 
and told the representative to make sure you record that Ive rang and have a nice day. He 
then said the representative obviously didnt do that and hell not pay an additional fee no 
matter what the representative says.It seems Mr M thought that a record of the call was enough for Santander to waive the fee. 
But I think he had misunderstood the representatives intention in telling Mr M it could have 
been avoided by a call. I think they meant it could have been avoided if Mr M had updated 
Santander on his circumstances and potentially reached some sort of repayment plan. But in 
the call Mr M made, none of that was discussed as Mr M swore at the representative and 
eventually the call ended without anything having been discussed. 
Its not clear whether the representative had looked back at the records yet, but they 
confirmed the fee would sit there until the balance was cleared. Mr M remained unhappy, so 
the representative explained that he was just making him aware of the situation. Mr M then 
swore at the representative, said that hell prove him wrong, that hell claim against 
Santander and advised the representative to go and check the records. 
The representative said that he didnt need to check the records. They tried to wrap up the 
call, but Mr M insisted he call him back once hed checked the records. At this point, the 
representative said he didnt need to call Mr M back because he could see the record and 
the conversation that was had. The representative didnt confirm that he was the same 
person. Mr M feels this was inappropriate, and I can see why he might have felt that way. 
But I also think the representative would have been trying to avoid further abuse and if the 
call had ended there then that might have been the best approach. 
But Mr M exclaimed that there was proof he called. The representative agreed but said that 
Mr M was abusive to the call handler. Mr M reiterated that he had called. At this point, the 
representative confirmed he was the same person and that it was him Mr M was abusive to. 
Mr M swore at the representative again and was asked not to. Mr M carried on using abusive 
language and was again asked to watch his language. Mr M carried on, so the 
representative gave him a final warning, but Mr M continued shouting over him and the call 
was terminated.
Considering everything, elements of the call could have been handled differently, but overall 
I think Santanders representative was trying to avoid being abused and I dont think their 
tone or attitude was inappropriate. Santanders representative was entitled to end the call 
given Mr M continued to be abusive despite having been asked not to swear and after fair 
warning that the call would be terminated.
So, I think Santanders offer to waive the field agent fee and award of £50 for any distress 
and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable. Mr M wants the outstanding balance on 
his mortgage cleared as well, but I dont think this would be fair in the circumstances. I 
should point out that our role is not to punish the business, but to put things right in terms of 
the impact any mistake had on Mr M. 
There was no financial loss to Mr M. The field agent fee was payable because Mr M hadnt 
engaged with Santander enough to prevent this step being taken. Santander has already 
agreed to waive the fee even though it didnt have to. Mr M was repeatedly abusive to 
Santanders representative and as Ive said above, its possible certain aspects of the call 
could have been handled better but I think the representative was more likely than not trying 
to limit the abuse they received. So, I think Santanders offer of £50 for any distress or 
inconvenience caused is fair. That means, I dont think Santander needs to do anything 
more. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman