DRN-2984772
The complaint
Mr F says Aviva Insurance Limited acted unreasonably by greatly reducing the no claims
discount on his motor insurance policy without explaining the process to him in advance. 
What happened
When Mr F took a policy out with Aviva in 2019, he told the advisor he had 15 years NCD.
Mr F says he got the policy online and didnt know that NCD was capped at five years. He 
said he didnt know about the step back process (after one accident, his NCD would reduce 
to three years) either. Aviva said when he called to buy the policy, he was given the chance 
to protect his NCD, but declined it. It said the policy documents sent to him at the point of 
sale set out its step back process  and that hed had other policies with Aviva previously.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Fs complaint. She noted that he declined NCD
protection during the inception call and that the policy documents showed that five years or 
more NCD would be reduced to three years after one accident. Mr F said it should have
been made clear to him at inception what the reduction would be. He didnt think it was fair
for anyone to lose so many years discount after one accident. The investigator thought the 
NCD process wasnt explained as clearly as it could have been. But she also thought it had
made no difference to Mr F. She said that when he took out a policy with Aviva in 2016,
NCD protection was explained, but Mr F said he didnt want it, as he thought it was a con.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
During the inception call in 2019, when the advisor asked Mr F if he wanted to protect his
NCD, he said he didnt. Shed just said It allows you to when Mr Fs response made her
stop short. I think its very likely that she was about to explain that the protection would have
allowed him to make one claim without losing any NCD. The advisor went on to inform Mr F
of the exact percentage discount Aviva would apply to his premium due to the five years or
more NCD Mr F held.
I think the advisor would have said more about NCD protection to Mr F had he not made it
clear that he didnt want to hear more about it. But the advisor didnt say anything about
Avivas cap of five years when Mr F told her he had 15 years NCD. The policy documents
were sent to his online portal. The policy schedule said (in error) that Mr F had 13 years
NCD, but the NCD step-back details in the policy said that five years or more NCD would be
stepped back to three after one claim on the policy. Mr F was asked to check the
documents, and he had the 14-day cooling-off period in which to query any issue. But we
think the NCD cap should be set out during the sales process.
It seems very unlikely that Mr F would have accepted NCD protection. He was quite sure he
didnt want it when it was explained to him in 2016. Theres no reason to assume that he
would have changed his mind by 2019. His response to the basic question the advisor put to
him about it in 2019 points to that being the case. So I dont think her not going through all
the protected NCD facts at that point made a difference to Mr Fs decision.
I think Mr Fs main concern was losing so many years NCD for making one claim  and even
with NCD protection, his NCD would have stayed at five years. Most insurers will accept any
number of years NCD  although most of them cap the discount theyre prepared to allow at
nine years or less (often at five years) no matter how many extra years a consumer has
been claims-free. But a few insurers do take more than nine years NCD into account. Had
Mr F been told that Avivas cap was five years, I think its likely hed have looked elsewhere
for cover. Mr F got Avivas maximum percentage discount, and a higher discount may not
have been available elsewhere, even if another insurer accepted more NCD years. He may
not have found a suitable policy for a similar price elsewhere. But Mr F didnt get the chance
to make an informed choice or to look for possible alternatives.
We think an insurer hasnt acted fairly if it didnt make it clear during the sales process that it
caps NCD at a certain level. If thats the case - and if we also think the consumer is likely to
have looked for a policy elsewhere had it done so  then we say the insurer should put
matters right by giving the consumer a letter explaining the situation. Although Mr F had
taken out policies with Aviva previously, the NCD cap wasnt mentioned during the sales call
in 2016. As he didnt make a claim until after he bought the 2019 policy, he wasnt aware of it
until then, as it wasnt explained at inception in 2019 either. So I think to put matters right, it
would be reasonable for Aviva to provide Mr F with an explanatory letter.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings, but neither of them did so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties havent commented on my provisional findings, theres no reason to depart 
from them, so Im upholding this complaint in part, for the reasons set out above.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Aviva Insurance Limited to give Mr F a letter to show to 
other insurers stating that he came to it with proof of 15 years NCD, but that his NCD was 
stepped back from Avivas maximum to three years NCD after one claim on the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman