DRN-2051432
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) incorrectly advised them they had to 
have life and critical illness protection in order to obtain a mortgage.
What happened
In 2006 Mr B took out an HSBC mortgage. On HSBCs advice he also took out an HSBC 
decreasing term life and critical illness policy (policy 00) to protect his mortgage 
repayments.
In 2009 Mr and Mrs B met again with HSBC, as Mr B was remortgaging and Mrs B was 
added to the mortgage. On HSBCs advice, they each took out separate HSBC decreasing 
term life assurance policies to protect their mortgage repayments (policies 1D and 0N.)
In 2012 Mr B complained to HSBC, saying it had pressured him into taking critical illness 
cover under policy 00 in order to get his mortgage. HSBCs final response letter dated 
22 November 2012 said these policies were optional and it couldnt find any evidence it had 
told Mr B he must have a life and critical illness policy. HSBC said the policy was suitable for 
Mr B and it had given him documents explaining how the policy worked, including his right to 
cancel. HSBC also gave Mr B the right to refer his complaint to our service. 
Mr and Mrs B say they first became aware they didnt have to have life cover in 2019, when 
applying for a new mortgage. So in 2019 they complained to HSBC about the sale of all 
three policies, adding that theyd visited an HSBC branch within the last five years to discuss 
cancelling their policies but HSBC told them they couldnt cancel. 
In its final response letter dated 16 October 2019, HSBC said it wouldnt look at the sale of 
Mr Bs life and critical illness policy 00 because it issued a final response about that in 2012. 
But it addressed policies 1D and 0N. It said they werent mis-sold and the mortgage offer 
letter it sent Mr and Mrs B made clear only buildings insurance was required. HSBC said the 
documents it gave Mr and Mrs B when their policies started in 2009 explained how they 
worked, including cancellation rights, so theyd had the opportunity to cancel if they werent 
happy. However, HSBC noted it hadnt reduced the sums assured for policies 1D and 0N as 
it should have in 2009, so Mr and Mrs B had overpaid these policy premiums - it offered to 
refund what theyd overpaid, totalling £34.95.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service. They said despite the wording of 
HSBCs documents, its adviser told them in both 2006 and 2009 that they couldnt get an 
HSBC mortgage without taking life cover. And within the last five years, theyd been told by 
an HSBC branch that they couldnt cancel the policies and had to have them  Mr and Mrs B 
thought HSBC should have records of this visit. For its part, HSBC said Mr and Mrs B had 
referred their complaint about policy 00 to our service too late, as it was more than six 
months since it issued its final response about that in 2012. But HSBC consented to our 
service considering the sale of policies 1D and 0N. 
Our investigator agreed Mr and Mrs B had brought their complaint about policy 00 to our 
service too late under the six month time limit rule. But with HSBCs consent, he considered 
the sale of policies 1D and 0N and thought they hadnt been mis-sold. He thought HSBC had 
made clear Mr and Mrs B didnt have to buy the policies if they didnt want to, and thought 
the policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs B. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They said Mr B only complained about the critical illness part of 
policy 00 in 2012, and hadnt then known life cover wasnt required, so it was unfair for 
HSBC to address the whole sale of policy 00 in its 2012 final response - their complaint 
about the sale of the life part of 00 was separate and new. They also said HSBC hadnt said 
anywhere, either in its documents or through its adviser, that they didnt need to have life 
cover. And they thought the suitability of the policies was irrelevant since the issue was 
whether theyd been allowed to decide for themselves whether they wanted the policies. 
As Mr and Mrs B disagreed, this complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
policy 00
Im satisfied the complaint about the sale of this policy has been brought to our service too 
late for us to be able to consider it. Were not free to look into every complaint brought to us. 
Instead, we have to follow the Dispute Resolution: Complaints rules set out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its handbook. These are known as the DISP rules.
DISP rule 2.8.2 says that, unless the business consents, we cant look at a complaint if it 
was made more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication
Mr and Ms B say that in 2012 Mr B only complained about the critical illness part of policy 
00, not the life part. But I can see HSBCs 2012 final response addressed both the critical 
illness and the life parts of the policy. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for HSBC to 
do that, since life and critical illness were two parts of the same policy that Mr B was 
complaining had been mis-sold. HSBC sent Mr B its final response to his mis-sale complaint 
about policy 00 in 2012, and he didnt refer that complaint to our service until 2019. So I think 
Mr Bs complaint about the sale of policy 00 has been brought too late under the six month 
part of the rules. 
HSBC doesnt consent to our service considering that complaint. So the only way I could 
consider it is if I thought the failure to comply with the six month rule was as a result of 
exceptional circumstances. Mr and Mrs B say they didnt receive HSBCs 2012 final 
response letter, and if they had received it they would have responded as it contained 
inaccuracies. But I think HSBC correctly sent the 2012 final response, as Ive seen a copy 
and it was correctly addressed to Mr B. Its unfortunate Mr B didnt receive it, but thats not 
something I can fairly hold HSBC responsible for. And if Mr B complained to HSBC in 2012 
but didnt receive a final response from it, its reasonable to think hed have followed it up 
with HSBC. But Ive not been provided with any evidence that he did. I know Mr and Mrs B 
say they visited an HSBC branch at some point within the last five years to discuss their life 
policies, but theres nothing to suggest this was because they were chasing a response to 
the 2012 complaint. Therefore, Im satisfied exceptional circumstances dont apply here. 
policies 1D and 0NHSBC consented to our service considering the sale of policies 1D and 0N, so Ive not 
considered the DISP time limit rules any further.
Mr and Mrs B have told us that whatever the documents say, HSBCs agent said they had to 
have life cover to get an HSBC mortgage. I wasnt present at the sale meeting in 2009 so I 
cant be certain about what was discussed.  Therefore, Ive considered the evidence 
available to me. Our service asked HSBC for all the information it held about the sale of 
policies 1D and 0N, but the time passed means it now has limited information. But HSBC did 
have some information, including a copy of the mortgage offer letter and the policy terms 
and conditions it sent Mr and Mrs B. 
On 30 March 2009 Mr and Mrs B signed the mortgage offer letter declaration which said 
I/We accept the mortgage offer on the terms set out above and in the HSBC Mortgage Loan 
Conditions. Section 9. Insurance of that mortgage offer said:
Insurance you must take out through HSBC
You are not required to take out any insurance through HSBC
Insurance you must take out as a condition of this additional borrowing but that you 
do not have to take out through HSBC.
Buildings Insurance
The Important Information section of the policy terms and conditions says Cancellation You 
have the right to reconsider your decision and change your mind. If you wish to cancel your 
policy you may do so within 30 days of receiving the Policy Schedule by writing to: [HSBC 
address] The policy will be cancelled and any premium paid by you in connection with the 
policy will be refunded. If you do not wish to cancel your policy, your policy will commence 
and premiums will be collected. If you choose not to exercise your cancellation rights, and 
subsequently decide to cancel your policy outside of the 30-day cancellation period, there 
will not be a refund of any premiums you have paid.
So the documentation Ive seen says the only insurance Mr and Mrs B were required to take 
out was buildings insurance, and that their life cover could be cancelled within 30 days. I 
acknowledge Mr and Mrs B say HSBCs adviser told them something different. But if there 
was a discrepancy between the documents HSBC was providing and what its adviser was 
saying, its reasonable to think Mr and Mrs B would have queried this with HSBC at the time. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest they did. Given this, theres not enough evidence for 
me to fairly say HSBC incorrectly told Mr and Mrs B they had to take out policies 1D and 0N. 
asking to cancel the policies in branch within the last five years
Mr and Mrs B say they visited an HSBC branch at some point in the last five years to discuss 
their life policies, and when they asked to cancel them HSBC said they couldnt cancel and 
had to have the policies. Mr and Mrs B think HSBC should have a record of this. But HSBC 
says it doesnt have a record of this visit and that Mr and Mrs B have brought this part of 
their complaint too late, because if they thought their policies should have been cancelled 
then, they should have raised a complaint within three years of the branch visit in question. 
DISP rule 2.8.2 says that unless the business consents, we cant look at a complaint if it was 
made:
more than:
(a)   six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.While Mr and Mrs B cant say exactly when they visited branch, theyve consistently said it 
was within the last five years of their 2019 complaint. Given this, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B 
have complained about this branch visit in time under the six year part of the rule, so I dont 
need to go on and consider the three year part of the rule. 
Mr and Mrs B havent provided any evidence regarding that branch visit. And HSBC says it 
has no record of it, which is unfortunate but can be the case with branch visits. Given all this, 
Ive not seen enough evidence to fairly say HSBC gave Mr and Mrs B incorrect information 
about their policies at a branch visit.
I understand Mr and Mrs B say its irrelevant whether the policies sold in 2009 were suitable. 
But for completeness, Ive considered this and Im satisfied they were. Mr and Mrs B had 
taken out a mortgage and these policies provided cover in line with the amount and term of 
their mortgage borrowing. And that cover was on a decreasing basis, as was their mortgage 
borrowing. 
I note HSBC has itself offered to refund Mr and Mrs B £34.95 in premiums theyd overpaid 
because HSBC incorrectly didnt reduce the 1D and 0N sums assured in 2009. Mr and Mrs B 
say theyve rejected this offer and that its irrelevant since they think the policies were mis-
sold in the first place. But again, Ive considered this for completeness. As I say, I dont think 
HSBC mis-sold policies 1D and 0N. And Ive not seen anything to make me think HSBC 
incorrectly calculated what it says Mr and Mrs B have overpaid in premiums as a result of its 
error in 2009. So I dont think it was unfair to offer them a refund totalling £34.95.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman