DRN-4356073
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire agreement with Motability 
Operations Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr B was supplied with a new car through a three-year hire agreement with 
Motability. Shortly after being supplied with the car, Mr B says that he complained to the 
supplying dealership about the fuel consumption. In August 2020, Mr B let Motability know 
that the car was going back to the dealership due to issues with the brakes and acceleration.
In January 2021, Mr B advised Motability that he was having issues with the boot opening 
automatically, and the car rolling while parked. Motability asked him to take the car to the 
dealership for them to look into the issues. In February 2021, Mr B asked Motability for 
permission to add a towbar to the car, which was approved.
In September 2021, Mr B asked Motability if he could change the car, as it was 
underpowered, and he was struggling to tow his caravan. Motability explained this was 
possible, but it would mean cancelling the agreement and paying a £250 cancellation fee. Mr 
B didnt go ahead with this.
In October 2021, Mr B advised Motability that he was having mechanical issues with the car 
and that he was taking it back to the dealership for investigation and repair. During 2022, Mr 
B contacted Motability on several occasions to let them know the car was being returned to 
the dealership for investigation of other faults. In October 2022, a fault was found with the 
gearbox, and this was fixed. 
Mr B complained to Motability in January 2023, as the car was back in for repair. He was 
unhappy with the amount of time the car had been in for repair, and that it still seemed to 
have faults. Motability gave Mr B the option to end the agreement early and return the car 
with nothing more to pay. They also waived their £250 cancellation fee and paid Mr B an 
additional £2,000 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused, as well as for the 
extra fuel costs hed incurred.
Mr B wasnt happy with this, and he said hed spent over £3,800 more in fuel than he 
normally would have, due to the problems with the car. So, he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Motability had accepted there was a fault with the car, and that Mr B 
wasnt able to use it as he expected. However, Mr B had been able to travel more than 
27,000 miles while he was in possession of the car, and Motability kept him mobile (with 
courtesy cars and taxis) while the car was in for repair. So, he didnt think that Motability 
should refund any of the payments theyd received.
The investigator also said that Mr B hadnt provided any evidence of the additional fuel costs 
hed said hed incurred because of the faults with the car. Because of this, he thought 
Motabilitys offer to allow Mr B to return the car and end the agreement at no cost, and to 
pay him £2,000 compensation, was reasonable in the circumstances. And he didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He thought that Motabilitys offer was an admission of 
guilt, but they werent saying they are guilty.  He said that hed missed out on a family 
holiday because the courtesy car he was supplied with didnt have a tow bar, so he was 
unable to use his caravan.
With regards to the fuel costs, Mr B had said trading standards said the £2,000. Was not 
enough [sic] and, as far as hes concerned, hes out of pocket. He said he could provide 
bank statements to show what hed spent on fuel, and he wanted someone to look at this 
and how much it really cost him.
Because Mr B didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Motability are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Motability can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr B to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr B took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Motability to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there was a problem with the car, nor that there have been 
ongoing issues since the car was supplied to Mr B. As such, Im satisfied that I dont need to 
consider the merits of this issue within my decision. Instead, Ill focus on what I think 
Motability should do to put things right.Mr B has been able to use the car while its been in his possession. And while it was being 
repaired, he was also provided with a courtesy car and/or offered the use of a taxi account to 
keep him mobile. Because of this, I think its only fair that he pays for this usage. So, I wont 
be asking Motability to refund any of the payments hes made.
Its clear that Mr B has been inconvenienced by what has happened, and by the need to 
have to take the car back to the dealership for investigation and repair on multiple occasions. 
And Mr B has explained that he was a sole trader, so was unable to work when he had to 
make these multiple journeys. Mr B has also explained that he was unable to use his 
caravan when he had courtesy cars, as these werent fitted with towbars.
Mr B has said that the car was using excessive fuel. However, I havent seen anything, for 
example from the dealership who repaired the car, or from an independent engineer, that 
says the car was using excessive fuel due to an underlying fault. What I have seen is that Mr 
B complained to Motability that the car was underpowered when towing a caravan, and I 
think its reasonable to conclude that an underpowered car towing a heavy load would use 
more fuel than normal.
In a phone call to the investigator on 22 June 2023, Mr B has also said that he was running 
two cars  the one supplied by Motability and one other. So, if Mr B were to provide his bank 
statements to show how much hed spent on fuel, this wouldnt show me in which car the 
fuel was used. Given this, not only will the bank statements not show that Mr B was using 
excessive fuel, they also wont show how much fuel the car supplied by Motability was using.
As such, while I dont doubt Mr Bs testimony that the car was using more fuel than he 
expected it to, I wont be asking Motability to pay him the £3,800 he says he paid for this 
excess fuel.
Notwithstanding this, Ive seen that Motability have paid Mr B £2,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered, as well as for the additional fuel he says hes used. Given the 
above, I think that this was more than reasonable in the circumstances, and more than I 
wouldve directed had no offer been made. As such, I wont be asking Motability to pay Mr B 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Motability Operations 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman