DRN-4465504
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
has declined his claim for the treatment for his pet dog. 
What happened
Mr W has had insurance for his pet dog, who Ill refer to as B, from Red Sands since 2011. 
He has a time limited policy. This means that each condition is covered for up to 12  months. 
This 12-month period starts when the first signs or symptoms are noticed, and not when the 
pet is taken to the vet. The wording of his policy as at the time of his claim states:
This is a Time Limited policy. This means each condition is covered for 12 months  as 
long as you renew your policy. The 12 months starts from the date your pet first showed 
signs or symptoms of the condition. At the renewal after the condition started, well add 
an exclusion to your policy  but you can carry on claiming for the condition if you 
havent already reached your 12-month limit. At the end of the 12 month period, we 
wont cover that condition any more even if you renew.
On 12 August 2022 Bs vet sent a pre-authorisation request to Red Sands for treatment for 
the removal of lumps on B. Red Sands responded the same day to say that as the pre-
authorisation request submitted was for the removal of multiple masses, in the absence at 
that time of a confirmed diagnosis it wasnt able to review the masses under one 
authorisation. It asked for separate pre-authorisations for each mass until a condition 
diagnosis was available. It also asked for confirmation of the onset date of the condition 
being claimed for. Once this had been received  it would be in a position to assess the pre-
authorisation request. 
Mr W has said that Red Sands pre-authorised the necessary treatment. 
On the same day B received treatment for the removal of her lumps  which were found to be 
a keratinising cyst and three lipomas. On 23 September Red Sands informed the vet that as 
it hadnt received any response to its request for an onset date, Mr Ws claim was placed on 
hold.
Mr W submitted a claim to Red Sands on 17 October 2022. On 21 October Red Sands 
informed Mr W that as his policy was time limited to 12 months, and as Bs veterinary history 
showed that Bs cyst had first been noticed on 1 October 2019, cover for this condition 
expired 12 months later, on 30 September 2020. 
Bs medical history on 1 October 2019 recorded:
 Lump on dorsal pelvic region not changed, been there for years. Firm and well attached. 
New small grape sized fatty lump LHS thorax. Discussed options with lumps. 
Mr Ws claim was therefore declined. Red Sands informed him that an exclusion had been 
added to his policy excluding claims for cysts and warts with effect from 5 February 2020, 
the renewal date of his policy.
On 17 September 2022 Red Sands paid Mr Ws claim for the cost of the removal of Bs 
lipomas as these had first been noticed on 12 August 2022, so within 12 months. It then 
applied an exclusion on cover in respect of lipomas and resulting conditions with effect from 
5 February 2023. He was told that he would remain covered for this condition for a period of 
365 days from the date the condition was noticed, so cover would end on 11 August 2023.
As Mr W wasnt happy with Red Sands rejection of part of his claim, which he says was pre-
authorised, he brought a complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that not all the 
treatment  that Mr W was claiming for in 2022 was covered by his policy as lumps were first 
noted on 1 October 2019, and the policy only covers treatment of a condition for 12 months 
from when it was first noticed. He couldnt see any evidence of Mr Ws claim having been 
pre-authorised by Red Sands.
However he didnt consider that Red Sands had correctly applied the exclusions for cysts 
and lipomas as these had been applied with effect from the policy renewal date and not the 
date falling 365 days from the date when the condition was first noticed. He suggested that 
Red Sands should amend the exclusion date to come into effect, in the case of cysts, from 
30 September 2020, and in the case of lipomas, from 11 August 2023.
Red Sands has said that it doesnt dispute our investigators decision but that its unable to 
execute this because of the system changes this would require.
In these circumstances, Mr Ws complaint was referred to me as an ombudsman for a final 
decision from this service. 
As I had a different view to that of our investigator, I issued a provisional decision and invited 
any further comments from Mr W and Red Sands by 16 November 2023. As I havent 
received any comments from Mr W or Red Sands, Im therefore issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done to, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Red Sands has provided our investigator with various editions of its Time Limited policy. I 
consider that the applicable wording is that contained in the policy current at the time of Mr 
Ws claim. As his claim was made in October 2022, I take the version of the policy issued in 
2021 to be the applicable one. I have quoted from this above.
I consider that the policy wording is sufficiently clear. Once a medical condition has been 
noted, cover is only provided for 12 months from that date. Red Sands has therefore 
reasonably applied this policy term to reject Mr Ws claim for treatment for Bs cyst more 
than 12 months after a lump was first recorded in her medical notes, although it had been 
noticed quite some time before that.
I consider it has also reasonably applied the exclusions covering any further claims for cysts 
and warts and lipomas in accordance with its underwriting criteria. I can see the confusion 
noted by our investigator when these exclusions were imposed with effect from the next 
renewal date, but the policy clearly states that notwithstanding these exclusions being 
introduced before the applicable 12- month period has been reached, claims could continue 
to be made for these conditions until the 12-month limit has been reached. This was also made clear to Mr W in a  letter from Red Sands to Mr W of 17 September 
2022 in relation to the exclusion of future lipoma claims. I dont consider that is necessary for 
Red Sands to amend the commencement date of the two exclusions it has added to the 
policy.
I should add that I also havent seen any evidence of a pre-authorisation having been given 
by Red Sands. I therefore cant say it has acted unreasonably in pre-authorising treatment 
and then rejecting a claim for it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman