DRN-2853370
The complaint
Mrs R complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA wont refund a transaction made 
through PayPal credit that she didnt apply for or otherwise authorise. She is being assisted 
in her complaint by her son, Mr B. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
Mrs R had an existing PayPal account. She was contacted in May 2020 by someone 
purporting to work for a well-known computer anti-virus and security company. They 
told her for a small fee they could check her computer for viruses and speed it up. As 
her computer had been running slowly, she agreed to this service and paid £25.95 
through PayPal. 
Mrs R reports says she was on the phone for a long time and was at one point told 
she could make herself a drink whilst work continued on her computer. Mrs R had to 
end the call when it came close to the time her son was due to visit. 
Mrs R told her son she had been speaking with a very nice person who had helped 
her with her computer. Her son has told us his heart sank at being told this, and on 
checking his mothers PayPal account became aware that credit had been applied for 
her in name, and a transaction of £499 had been made from it, all without his 
mothers knowledge or authority. 
PayPal has declined to refund the transaction. It says it cannot find any evidence that 
Mrs R gave a third-party access to her computer and this office cannot prove that is 
what happened. It says the logins are consistent, the information on the credit 
application accurate and a previous payment to the same business in 2019 hasnt 
been disputed. It also said that if she did allow third party access to her account, she 
has engaged in a restricted activity under the User Agreement and so inherits any of 
the risk involved. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Ultimately, this transaction has been made using 
credit and as he was satisfied Mrs R hadnt authorised it, the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 meant the transaction should be refunded. He also required 8% interest to 
be added to the refund and for Mrs Rs credit file to be amended. PayPal asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman but didnt provide any further evidence or arguments 
for consideration. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I would like to 
reassure the parties that I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons.
I accept this office doesnt have proof that Mrs Rs computer was accessed by a 
third-party. But we are not required to prove cases one way or the other. Where 
there is a dispute about what happened, or the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I 
consider most likely to have happened given the evidence available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. 
In-line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) (which are the starting 
point for the transaction in question), Mrs R isnt liable for payments she didnt 
authorise (76(1)), unless she failed with gross negligence, or intent, to comply with 
the terms of the account of keep her personalised security details safe (77(3)(b)). 
Under section 64 (which relates to credit agreements) (3) regulations 76(1) to (4) and 
77(1) to (5) and regulation 74 as it applies to regulation 76, do not apply. Regulation 
64(4) applies section 83(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This essentially means, 
there isnt any provision that holds Mrs R liable for the transaction if it was 
unauthorised, even if she acted with gross negligence (which I make no finding about 
here). 
The transaction made on Mrs Rs account was made via a credit agreement, which 
Mrs R says was also applied for by the fraudster. As the payment was made using a 
credit facility, gross negligence isnt a factor for my consideration. Under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, which regulates the credit agreement in question, a 
debtor shall not be held liable to the creditor for any loss arising from use of a credit 
facility by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the debtors agent 
(section 83). Therefore, my consideration is solely in relation to whether Mrs R 
authorised the transaction (and took out the credit facility), or authorised someone 
else to do so on her behalf. 
Mrs R tells us she was cold called from a person purporting to work for a very well- 
known antivirus and computer security company. She was offered a virus check and 
to speed up the running of her computer. As PayPal will know, this is a very common 
type of scam which lulls a person into believing they are having their computer 
checked, when in reality the fraudster is accessing the computer to carry out 
transactions. Mrs R allowed remote access to her computer and logged into her 
PayPal account to pay for the service  hence the payment of £25.95, which she 
acknowledges she did authorise. 
Mrs R also tells us that she was kept on the phone for a long time whilst the service 
was being carried out and was also told she could go and make herself a drink. 
Again these are common features of this type of scam. The length of time is 
evidenced by the time between the two transactions  nearly two hours.
When searching on-line for the business Mrs R paid, there is a lot of information 
regarding other people having unauthorised transactions debit their account to this 
business. This includes on PayPals own community discussion board (from people 
all over the world) and as shown by concerns raised by others with PayPal more 
directly.  And having conducted my own search, I have not been able to locate the 
product the transaction was supposedly for. I think there is considerable doubt that 
this was a genuine company, or if it was, that the person calling was actually working 
for it. 
Mrs R has not said that she shared her PayPal log in details at the time and Im not 
persuaded that if she did, she did so knowingly.  That the logins were consistent 
doesnt mean it was actually Mrs R that logged in when the credit was applied for, 
given the circumstances described here. I consider it entirely plausible and probable 
that these were actually obtained by the fraudster when Mrs R made the initial 
payment. So I dont find PayPals argument persuasive. And Im not persuaded an 
undisputed transaction from two years prior is persuasive evidence that Mrs R 
applied for credit and authorised the transaction on this occasion.  
Mrs R had allowed access to her computer for a virus check and to speed up its 
operation; and she was told she didnt need to be present whilst the work was being 
carried out. I accept her testimony that she was unaware of the credit facility being applied for or the transaction being carried out, as being plausible and persuasive, 
given the wider evidence available and that this is a well-known fraud method. Im 
persuaded on balance that it was a fraudster that logged in to Mrs Rs PayPal 
account, subsequently applied for credit, and carried out the £499 transaction in 
dispute. 
As Mrs R was unaware the transaction was being carried out, I dont think it can be 
reasonably said that she authorised the transaction herself or authorised another 
party to do so on her behalf. As such, under section 83 (1) of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 PayPal cant hold Mrs R liable for it and so it needs to put that right. 
Putting things right
As I have upheld the complaint, I require PayPal to:
Pay Mrs R the total of the unauthorised transaction - £499 and any charges that have 
been applied in connection with it.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Unwind the credit agreement as if it never existed, including removing any record of 
the credit from credit reference agencies. 
I have considered that section 9.3 allows PayPal to retain £50 of any unauthorised use that 
takes place before it is informed of the unauthorised use. But that allowance doesnt appear 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974  which only allows £35 to be retained if a credit-token 
(such as a card) has been mis-used. That doesnt apply here. So Im not persuaded PayPal 
can retain £50 in the way its terms suggest, in the circumstances of this case. I have also 
considered the PSRs also allow £35 to be retained from the misappropriation of a payment 
instrument  which this arguably could be as that includes a set of procedures that allows a 
payment to be made (section 77(1)). However, as set out above section 64 disapplies that 
provision from applying to consumer credit agreements.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require PayPal 
Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to redress Mrs R as I have set out above, in the Putting things right 
section.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman