DRN-2575398
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)) has dealt with a claim she made under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
What happened
In 2014 Mrs R entered into an agreement for the supply and installation of a solar panel 
system from a company called My Planet.  The system was paid for by a loan arranged with 
BPF.
Mrs R says she was told by My Planet that the financial benefits generated by the solar 
panels would cover the cost of the loan and she would get free electricity. Those benefits 
would come in the form of energy cost savings and Feed-in Tariff (FiT) payments from 
selling excess energy back to the grid.  But the system hasnt performed as Mrs R was 
expecting.
Under s.75 a finance company can be held responsible for misrepresentations or breaches 
of contract to the same extent as the supplier of goods or services. So, Mrs R made a claim 
to BPF.
In the course of Mrs Rs complaint, she has been provided with an offer of compensation 
from BPF. Its offer was based upon a calculation to make the solar panels self-funding  
essentially to pay the difference between the expected financial benefits, and the cost of 
servicing the loan over its 10-year term.
Overall, our investigator felt that the offer made by BPF was fair and reasonable and in line 
with what our Service would usually recommend in such complaints.
Mrs R didnt accept the offer.  Represented by a claims management company (CMC) Mrs 
R says that she was also promised free electricity and had thought the loan was for a 5-year 
term rather the 10-years it was taken over.  The CMC explained the loan term has run into 
Mrs Rs retirement and she wants the solar panels removed.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind but forwarded a refreshed offer from 
BPF to bring the amounts up to date as at January 2021.  The CMC also provided a copy of 
sale literature produced by My Planet which referred to free electricity.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me to review 
everything afresh and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as the investigator 
 and Ill explain why.
For there to be a valid claim under s.75, an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
must exist.  Im satisfied that exists here, and as BPF has accepted the claim and made and 
offer to Mrs R I wont expand further. So, the key issue for me to decide is whether the offer 
made by BPF to resolve Mrs Rs claim is fair and reasonable.  
Self-funding offer
Mrs R says she believed the solar panel system benefits would cover the cost of servicing 
the loan with BPF and effectively make the system self-funding.
In the course of our Service dealing with the complaint Mrs R provided copies of her FiT 
statements which enabled BPF to calculate the loss it says she suffered.  That calculation is 
based upon the likely energy savings and FiT income Mrs R would receive over the loan 
term, compared to the cost of the loan.  The approach taken by BPF to calculate the loss 
was in line with what our Service would direct in similar complaints.
It's my understanding that the last offer BPF made to pay compensation to Mrs R was 
calculated and made in January 2021.  Its offer was to include compensatory interest of 8% 
simple per year to be added at the date of settlement.
Mrs R has previously been provided with BPFs offer calculation and so I havent included it 
again in this decision.  Im satisfied the approach to the offer it has made is fair and 
reasonable and puts Mrs R in the position she would have been in had the system 
performed as was represented by My Planet.
Loan term
I appreciate that Mrs R has explained she understood the loan term to finance the purchase 
of the solar panel system was only 5-years rather than 10-years.
I recognise the salesperson would have provided a lot of information, but I consider the 
details of the loan would have been a central part of the transaction.  I note there was an 
incentive for My Planet get Mrs R to agree to the loan in order to sell the system, and whilst I 
appreciate her recollection of being told it was a 5-year term, Ive seen no other evidence to 
support that.
On balance, Im persuaded Mrs R ought to have known the loan was being taken over a 10-
year term.  She would have been required to sign a fixed sum loan agreement setting out the 
details of the loan  including the term, the amount being borrowed, and the monthly 
payment amount.  Given the monthly payment amount to service the loan, I think it ought to 
have been clear that the term would be more than 5 years  otherwise the principal loan 
amount wouldnt have been repaid.
I understand the loan term is particularly relevant as it would run into Mrs Rs retirement and 
has the potential to cause affordability issues at a time when her income is reduced.  
However, I also note the system was always intended to be self-funding and the benefits 
would mean the solar panels would the cost of the loan.  Although that never happened in 
practice, the offer made by BPF puts that issue right and so Im satisfied that affordability 
issues are no longer a concern.
Free electricityOne of the main reasons that Mrs R has given for not accepting BPFs offer is that she was 
expecting free electricity.  In support of that point the CMC has provided a copy of the My 
Planet sales literature which set out:
Generating your own electricity means that you are no longer faced with the 
uncertainty of rising costs from energy suppliers.  It gives you a real element of 
control and is a great step towards self-sufficiency.
Whilst the brochure doesnt specifically state that electricity will be free, I accept it largely 
suggests that. But Im also conscious the literature is aimed primarily at the overall benefits 
of the system when being purchased.  If a customer had bought the system outright from 
their own funds, all the electricity generated would free, but having taken a loan to purchase 
the solar panels, Mrs R created a cost to be serviced. 
So overall, Im not persuaded there was a misrepresentation in relation to the system 
generating free electricity.  And once the loan has been settled, the panels will continue to 
generate electricity and benefits which will essentially be free.  So, I dont consider it would 
be fair and reasonable of me to ask BPF to do anything further in this regard.
Summary
As explained above, Im satisfied the offer BPF has made to Mrs R is fair and reasonable  
but it will need to refresh its calculation to the date of settlement if Mrs R accepts this 
decision.  Although I appreciate Mrs R would like the system to be uninstalled, I dont feel 
thats proportionate to whats required to put things right.
I realise Mrs R may be disappointed with my conclusions about some of the concerns shes 
raised, but I must assure her that Ive considered everything impartially, afresh and in full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance)  but Im satisfied the offer it has already 
made is a fair and reasonable way of putting things right.
I leave it up to Mrs R to decide whether to accept the offer  and if she does, BPF will need 
to refresh the amounts to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman