DRN-3414415
The complaint
Mr A complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) mishandled his 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
Mr A is represented by his partner Mrs B.
Where I refer to AA, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold AA responsible for 
their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a premium-brand car, first registered in 
2012.
Mr A bought the car in 2016.
For the year from February 2021, Mr A had the car insured on a comprehensive policy under 
which AA was responsible for dealing with any claim.
Unfortunately, Mr As car was damaged in an accident on 25 May 2021. The car remained 
driveable. He took the car to one of AAs approved repairers for an estimate. 
On 29 June 2021, Mr A complained to AA that it was responsible for delaying the repair. On 
2 July 2021, AA approved repair.
By a final response dated 1 September 2021, AA upheld the complaint, apologised for the 
delay and paid Mr A £50.00 compensation. It said the repairs had been completed.
Mr A replied that the repair had not been completed. He said he had intended to sell the car 
before he was affected by the Ultra-Low Emission Zone (ULEZ) charges from October 2021, 
but he couldnt sell his car before it had been repaired.
Mr A brought his complaint to us later in September 2021. 
Our investigator thought that there were delays. She said she could only look at delays up to 
1 September 2021. The investigator recommended that AA should:
1.  increase the compensation amount to a total of £150.00; and
2. progress this claim as a priority and make reasonable efforts to book the repairs as 
soon as possible.
In line with the investigators opinion, AA said it was sending Mr A a cheque for a further 
£100.00.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mrs B says, in summary, that:
The impact was to the front of the vehicle. The garage never checked for secondary 
damage.
The engineers never told him that the vehicle was ok to drive.
He only expected to drive the vehicle with the damage for a maximum of about 2 
weeks - it is now coming on to a year.
Since the accident, the sensors on the vehicle are always 'beeping' when driving. He 
now turns the sensors off.
'Clips' that secure parts within the engine are broken, therefore, when opening the 
bonnet of the vehicle, he can see that parts within this section are 'out of line' making 
it difficult to open and shut.
He has not been able to service the vehicle and it now states that it is overdue by 
300 days on a B service.
 AA have not adhered to the insurance policy. Therefore, the offer of £150.00 is not 
fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). The effect of one of those rules is that a consumer must first make 
a complaint to the financial firm and wait up to eight weeks for a final response before we 
can investigate that complaint. That is unless the firm consents to us investigating it earlier. 
Unfortunately AA hasnt given consent to us to investigate the parts of Mr As complaint that 
he made after the final response dated early September 2021.
It follows that I cant deal in this final decision with those later parts of the complaint. So this 
decision wont deal with Mr As complaint that the engineers didnt check or advise him on 
the safety of the car, or his complaint that he couldnt use the sensors, or his complaint that 
he couldnt sell the car or get it serviced.
Ive thought about the acts and omissions for which AA was responsible between the 
accident and claim in May 2021 and the final response in early September 2021. AA was 
responsible for weeks of delay until, in July 2021, it authorised repair. AA also failed to 
communicate with Mr A and the repairer as well as it shouldve done.
Ive also thought about the impact on Mr A. That included having to drive a damaged car. It 
also included the inconvenience of having to chase AA. It also included the upset he felt at 
not receiving the standard of service he was entitled to expect.
I dont under-estimate the impact on Mr A up to early September 2021.Putting things right
Overall, I consider that £150.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
I understand that AA has sent Mr A cheques totalling £150.00. He didnt accept them in 
settlement of his complaint. But I dont know whether he presented the cheques for payment. 
So I will direct AA to pay Mr A £150.00 insofar as it hasnt already paid him that amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr A (insofar as it hasnt already 
paid him) £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman