DRN-3749556
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that AIB Group (UK) Plc dealt with the closure of his accounts 
and provided him with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr S had two sole trader business current accounts and two personal deposit accounts with 
AIB. In September 2021 AIB wrote to him to say that it was withdrawing from commercial 
banking services in Great Britain and his business accounts would be closed. He called AIB 
in November 2021 and was told he would need to close all his accounts. Mr S arranged with 
a third-party business to switch his current accounts but was unable to switch his deposit 
accounts. He is unhappy to be told that in fact his personal accounts didnt need to be closed 
and also that the only effective way he can now take out money is by using a CHAPS 
payment with a £25 fee. Mr S was also unhappy with the waiting times when he called AIB 
and with its level of service.
AIB offered to pay Mr S compensation of £200. It said that the call waiting time of over an 
hour for Mr S wasnt the customer service it sought to provide. It said he had wrongly been 
told he would need to close his personal deposit accounts. But also, that the only way to 
transfer money out was using CHAPS as he didnt want to use the online service. It didnt 
agree that staff had told Mr S that its systems were wrongly set up as a result. AIB said it 
had made a strategic decision to close its business centres. The switching service was only 
for current accounts and it had been unable to transfer the deposit accounts through that 
service and noted that Mr S had found out about this when abroad.
Our investigator didnt recommend that AIB do anything more than it had offered to. He said 
it was entitled to make a commercial decision about whether to operate in Great Britain. And 
that the deposit accounts were being operated in line with the terms and conditions. The 
compensation was reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He wanted to know what the 
acceptable call waiting terms for AIB were and how it had calculated what should be paid in 
compensation. And why the assessment of the considerable stress he was caused while 
abroad was reasonable. He hadnt been compensated for trying to switch a deposit account. 
He was unhappy that he couldnt access his account other than by CHAPS payment. And he 
wanted to be compensated for the inconvenience of having to switch banks. He said AIB 
hadnt told him why the switch didnt occur, and he was considering legal action and wanted 
to contact the regulator.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 26 September 2022 . I set out below what I said.
Id asked AIB through our investigator to provide some further information about the 
accounts Mr S had and what happened. It provided a copy of the letter sent in September 
2021 to Mr S about the future closure of his business accounts. Id also received a recording 
of his call about that in November 2021.
As set out above Mr S had a mix of business and personal accounts. He didnt have a 
personal current account. He as I understood it had operated his accounts through a 
business centre. The terms of the deposit account Id now seen state that it could be 
operated in business centres or via online/ or telephone banking. Mr S didnt have online 
banking for his business accounts.
AIB says it gave Mr S incorrect information about his personal accounts in the call of 
November 2021. Technically that may be the position  that he didnt have to close his 
personal accounts. But I thought the member of staff had noticed that the personal accounts 
were linked to business current accounts. What in my view he should reasonably have been 
told is that he would have difficulty operating those accounts in future. I said that because to 
access online banking required a debit card which only came with a current account. And the 
use of the telephone banking system seemed to follow from that. He couldnt access his 
accounts say at a Post Office without a debit card. And I didnt see explicit reference to the 
ability to make CHAPS payments from a savings account in the terms and conditions. The 
general personal account conditions Id been sent state that sending such a payment would 
be through a business centre.
In any event Mr S did try to switch his deposit accounts. That was something hed applied to 
do at the financial business alongside his current accounts. I wasnt looking at that business 
actions, but the switching service is only for current accounts and so any attempt to switch 
his deposit accounts was bound to fail. I couldnt see that this was due to any error by AIB.
In its final response letters AIB has given Mr S the impression that because he doesnt want 
to use online banking he will need to pay CHAPS fees for withdrawals. It also in a final 
response letter of 22 April 2022 indicated he could use a Post Office which isnt the position 
without a debit card. My understanding was that to do either hed need to open a personal 
current account and I couldnt see reference to that in the documentation Id seen.
AIB stated that it made a commercial decision to close its business centres in Great Britain 
and withdraw from commercial banking in Great Britain. That was something it was entitled 
to decide to do and it gave Mr S notice of this in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. It offered to assist him if he was finding it difficult to obtain business accounts 
elsewhere. And he was able to open replacements. So, I didnt see a basis for the 
compensation he wants for this.
I did think that he ought to have been able to close his deposit accounts and transfer the 
money without cost and without needing to open a current account and use online banking. I 
couldnt see that his specific circumstances were taken into account here or that he received 
clear communication about the position. Id noted what hes said about the service provided 
when he followed this up with AIB. Thats accepted and I didnt consider it needs to explain 
to him further how it runs its call centres.
my assessment
AIB offered to pay Mr S £50 for the call waiting times, £75 for the misinformation in the call of 
November 2021 and a further £75 for the stress he was caused when the deposit account 
switch failed  recognising that this followed on from the misinformation.
Id set out my assessment of what happened above. I considered that Mr S should be paid a 
further £50 to cover the costs of two CHAPS payments to remove the funds from his deposit 
accounts at no cost to an account of his choice. And a further £100 for the inconvenience involved. I took into account that AIB didnt make any error with the switching request and I 
saw no evidence that it ever told Mr S that he could switch a deposit account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AIB said it was happy to settle the complaint as Id set out.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that he wanted the compensation to be revised for the number of 
calls hed made. He accepted that AIB could make a strategic decision about its business, 
but he said it had a moral duty to a long-standing customer. In his opinion the operation of 
the deposit account wasnt correct. Hed have to pay £25 every time he used it and other 
banks charge less than £1 and his transfers werent urgent. He wanted compensation for the 
worry and anxiety of switching accounts and the stress had extended to his family. They 
werent able to get information about the switch either and Mr S felt he was in limbo while 
abroad for four to five weeks. Mr S said hed tried to explain all this to AIB and wanted to 
leave on amicable terms. He wanted me to review my findings and said he wanted to 
reserve the right to take things further.
Ive reviewed my assessment in light of these comments. I set out the position regarding the 
switching of the deposit accounts above. That would never have been possible and AIB 
didnt tell him it was. Im not looking at what the business that tried to make this switch did. 
And so, I dont find AIB has made an error about the switch itself.
While Mr S may want his accounts to operate in a certain way Im afraid how they do is a 
matter for AIB to decide upon. Having understood the issue, the changes have created I 
made allowance for two CHAPS fees to enable him to transfer the money elsewhere.
We dont tend to make awards for units of time, and I wont be increasing compensation for 
the way his calls were handled as I thought AIB had made a reasonable offer for that.
He, as the complainant here, has been caused stress and inconvenience as a result of the 
misinformation he was given. And hell now need to make arrangements for his deposits 
going forward. I consider I recognised that fairly in my provisional decision and I wont be 
increasing compensation. I can appreciate why he still feels unhappy as a long-standing 
customer of AIB. If Mr S doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this matter in 
court subject to any relevant time limits. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require AIB Group (UK) Plc to pay Mr S a 
total of £350.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman