Page 1 of 4The complaint
Mr G and Mrs L are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined some costs they claimed 
for, under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G and Mrs L went on a trip abroad. They left for their trip on 18 March 2021, which was 
booked as an emergency. They needed to visit family because of a bereavement. Mr G and 
Mrs L were due to fly home on 14 April 2021. However, shortly before Mr G and Mrs L were 
due to fly home, Mrs L suffered an accident. She damaged her ankle, and as a result, 
needed surgery whilst abroad.
Surgery was undertaken on 12 April 2021, a couple of days before Mr G and Mrs L were due 
to fly. But, because Mrs L wasnt fit to fly after the operation, and needed six weeks rest, 
both Mr G and Mrs L didnt catch the flight they originally booked. Mr G arranged a flight and 
flew home on 26 April 2021, and Mrs L followed a couple of months later, on 28 June 2021. 
Mr G and Mrs L explained that before they were able to return to the UK, the country theyd 
been in was placed on the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Offices (FCDOs) red 
list. This meant that on arriving in the UK they had to quarantine in a hotel, before being 
able to make their way home. Mr G and Mrs L therefore had to pay for this, which theyve 
explained came to around £4,000.
Because Mr G and Mrs L had incurred additional travel costs, as well as costs for Mrs Ls 
medical treatment, they made a claim under their travel insurance policy.
Mr G and Mrs L told this service their medical and travel costs had been settled by AXA. 
Apart from the costs they incurred by needing to quarantine. They didnt feel this was fair, 
and so raised their concerns with AXA. However, its position on the matter didnt change. 
So, they referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator explained AXAs reasoning for declining to pay for quarantine costs was as 
follows:
Mr G and Mrs Ls insurance policy didnt cover them for events that were occurring at
the time their trip was arranged, or they knew could occur at the time their trip was
arranged.
AXA considered that the potential need to quarantine was known to Mr G and Mrs L
DRN-3495265Page 2 of 4at the time they arranged their trip  given the FCDO guidance in place at the time  
which included a traffic light system. And UK nationals returning from a country on 
the red list of the traffic light system had to quarantine on arrival in the UK. 
Whilst the country Mr G and Mrs L were visiting wasnt on the red list when they 
arranged their trip, it was known that the above lists could change. And so, AXA 
considered that the quarantine costs were excluded under the policy.
Our investigator thought AXAs position here was fair. They noted the above exclusion was 
contained in Mr G and Mrs Ls policy. And they considered that the coronavirus pandemic 
was known and occurring when Mr G and Mrs L arranged to travel abroad. 
In addition to this, the investigator highlighted that when Mr G and Mrs L booked their trip, 
the FCDO were telling the public it would need to follow any new government requirements, 
when returning to the UK. And whilst quarantine might not have been a requirement from 
Mr G and Mrs Ls particular destination when they booked the trip, they would have known 
this could happen. So, they felt AXA had acted fairly when relying on this exclusion to 
decline Mr G and Mrs Ls quarantine costs.
AXA had told this service it hadnt been clear about its reasons for declining the claim and 
offered £100 compensation for this. And our investigator also said they considered this to be 
fair and reasonable. So, didnt recommend anything different.
Mr G and Mrs L didnt agree. In summary they said there was no plan for the country they 
travelled to, to enter the red list. And they noted this was illustrated by the prime minister 
planning to travel to the country at the same time. They said had it not been for Mrs Ls 
accident, they would have travelled home, and earlier if they had needed to, to stay in line 
with restrictions. But they reason they had to stay was due to the Mrs Ls accident. And, they 
felt that because of this, and mishandling of their claim, the quarantine costs should be 
accepted.
Because Mr G and Mrs L disagreed, their complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that AXA acted fairly in declining to settle the quarantine costs 
in this case. And that the £100 compensation offered is fair. Ive explained my reasoning for 
this below.
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought 
about whether AXA, in declining to provide Mr G and Mrs L with settlement for their 
quarantine costs, did so fairly. And I think it did. 
Ive reviewed Mr G and Mrs Ls policy documents, which detail the terms and conditions of 
their policy. And I can see that section 13 of their policy does provide cover for travel 
disruption, including for reasonable additional travel costs on the way home  if these arent 
recoverable from another source.
But, as with insurance policies of this nature, this section does also have some exclusions  
meaning situations where the cover under this section isnt applicable. And so, a claim Page 3 of 4wouldnt be paid. Looking at the exclusions listed under this section in Mr G and Mrs Ls 
policy, I can see the following:
Claims arising within the first seven days after You opened Your Ultimate Reward Current 
Account or the date You booked any Trip (whichever is later) which relate to an event which 
was occurring or You  were aware could occur at the time You opened Your Ultimate 
Reward Current Account or at the time You  made Your travel arrangements for this Trip 
(whichever is later).
Given the above, Im aware that if a Mr G and Mrs Ls claim for quarantine costs arose out of 
an event that was occurring, or they know could occur, at the time they booked their trip, 
these costs arent covered by the policy. 
So, Ive thought carefully about whether Mr G and Mrs L knew of the situation or knew that 
they could be subject to restrictions as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic, such as 
quarantine on their return. And Im satisfied they did.
Mr G and Mrs L have said that when they booked their trip, there was no suggestion of their 
destination being placed on the red list and therefore them needing to quarantine. They 
noted the prime minister was due to travel to the same place, around the same time, and felt 
this illustrated that the situation wasnt occurring, and it wasnt known that it could occur. But 
I dont agree.
Coronavirus had been declared a global pandemic on 11 March 2020, and various 
restrictions, including on travel abroad, had been given to UK nationals since this time. 
These regulations and restrictions changed regularly, reacting to the situation both here and 
abroad. And various rules and restrictions were still in place when Mr G and Mrs L booked 
their trip in March 2021. So, Im satisfied that when Mr G and Mrs L arranged their trip, they 
knew the situation with Coronavirus was occurring, and that rules and restrictions changed 
regularly, in reaction to latest advice.
In terms of quarantine - on 15 February 2021, the FCDO noted that British, Irish and anyone 
with residence rights in the UK, that had visited or passed through a banned country (red list) 
in 10 days prior to their arrival back in the UK, had to quarantine in a managed quarantine 
facility, for 10 days. So, it was clear that needing to quarantine on arriving back in the UK 
could  occur  and this wouldve been known to Mr G and Mrs L too. So, whilst I appreciate 
the country Mr G and Mrs L were arranging to travel to wasnt on the red list at the time of 
arranging to travel, it was clear, given the ever-changing and updating lists, and the rules 
around this at the time, that the need to quarantine could happen. As known events, or 
events its known could occur at the time of booking are excluded under the policy, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to decline Mr G and Mrs Ls quarantine costs.
I dont think the prime minister planning to travel to the same destination, around the same 
time, makes a difference to the outcome of this case either. As above, the rules were 
regularly changing and had to be responded to. 
Given the above, Im satisfied AXA acted fairly and reasonably, in declining to provide cover 
for Mr G and Mrs Ls quarantine costs. And so, I dont require AXA to do anything differently 
here.
Mr G and Mrs L have said their claim was mis-handled, in that they were initially told they 
wouldnt be covered for any of their costs (including medical and flights) because they had 
travelled to their destination when this was prohibited. But this wasnt right. And although the 
medical and flight elements of their claim were then paid, they werent given any clarity 
about why the quarantine costs werent covered. AXA has accepted that it could have been Page 4 of 4clearer in why it declined this element of their claim. And, when submitting information to this 
service, said it would be willing to pay Mr G and Mrs L £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience this caused. 
As AXA accept there was some problems in making clear its reasons for decline, I havent 
needed to consider that any further. Ive just needed to think about whether the offer of £100 
compensation is fair in the circumstances. And I think it is. I say this because I think it fairly 
recognises the confusion and inconvenience Mr G and Mrs L would have experienced in not 
understanding why this element of their claim was declined. Because of this, I require AXA 
to pay Mr G and Mrs L this £100 if it hasnt done so already.
Towards the latter stages of this complaint, Mr G and Mrs L have noted some other costs 
they feel AXA should have paid under their claim but didnt. This didnt form part of their 
original complaint, and so I havent considered this. Mr G and Mrs L would need to raise it 
with AXA in the first instance and follow the relevant complaints process. 
My final decision
Given the above my final decision is that AXA Insurance UK plcs offer of £100 
compensation is fair. And I require that AXA Insurance UK plc pay this to Mr G and Mrs L if it 
hasnt already done so.
I dont require it to do anything more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman