DRN-4309224
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Santander UK Plc was irresponsible in its lending to her. 
What happened
Miss Z was provided with a £15,000 loan by Santander in August 2018. The loan was 
repayable over 60 months with monthly repayments of around £356. 
Miss Z says that when the loan was provided, she was only 21 years old and didnt fully 
understand the implications of taking on the borrowing. She says that Santander didnt carry 
out reasonable checks before providing the loan and had it done so it would have seen she 
wasnt employed at the time and wouldnt be able to afford the repayments. Miss Z says she 
has needed to borrow from relatives to make her repayments meaning she is unable to pay 
other bills. She says this situation has negatively affected her mental health.
Santander didnt accept that it had made a mistake by providing the loan. It said it relied on 
the information given in the application process. 
Miss Z wasnt satisfied with Santanders response and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought given the size and term of the loan and 
noting Miss Zs comment that she was a student at the time, that Santander should have 
carried out further checks, including verifying Miss Zs financial circumstances, to ensure the 
loan was affordable for Miss Z. He said that had further checks been carried out then 
Santander would have seen that Miss Z wasnt receiving a salary and so the loan shouldnt 
have been provided. 
Santander didnt agree with our investigators view. It said the loan was applied for in branch 
and that Miss Z provided details of her employment and declared her income to the personal 
banker. It noted that Miss Z signed the declaration to say the information provided was true 
and correct. Santander said that Miss Zs current account in the months leading up to the 
loan showed regular deposits and credits that could have been considered as income. It said 
that income and affordability checks were carried out in line with the regulations and 
commented that Miss Z had savings at the time the loan was provided and was considered 
low risk. It said Miss Z has made her repayments on the loan without issues which supports 
its decision to lend.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, and the 
total cost of the credit. 
Santander has explained that the loan was taken out in branch and that Miss Z would have 
gone through the application form with a member of branch staff and that Miss Z provided 
details of her employment. It said that as Miss Z didnt display any high-risk indicators at the 
time no further income verification took place. While I note the comments Santander has 
made, I think that given the size and duration of the loan it would have been reasonable to 
verify Miss Zs income. 
I have looked through Miss Zs Santander bank statements from the time and in the months 
leading up to the loan there is no evidence of a regular income. I have also looked at Miss Z 
statements from her other account and again I cannot see evidence of an income. Miss Z 
was making transfers between her accounts, and she was making deposits in cash into her 
Santander account. Miss Z has explained that she was working on a temporary basis for a 
family member (and this is the employer noted on her application form) which could explain 
the cash deposits. While this was income from employment, given the irregular nature I think 
it should have been questioned further. Had this happened I think Santander would have 
realised that Miss Z wasnt receiving a regular income at the time and that the amount she 
was receiving was significantly less than had been declared. 
Santander has said that Miss Z has maintained her loan repayments and has noted her 
more recent employment. But I am considering whether the checks carried out at the time 
the loan was provided were reasonable and, in this case, I find that reasonable checks 
would have shown that Miss Z wasnt in receipt of a regular income. Without a regular 
income it wouldnt be clear how Miss Z would be able to make the loan repayments. While 
Miss Z has maintained her repayments, she has said that other bills have gone unpaid and 
she has had to borrow from relatives. 
I note Santanders comment that Miss Z was low risk and had other savings which she 
topped up with some of the loan proceeds. I have taken this into account, but Santander 
needed to ensure the loan repayments were affordable for Miss Z for the duration of the 
loan. I do not have the details of Miss Zs total savings but can see Miss Z said she had 
savings of around £5,000. This wouldnt be enough to repay the loan and I note that at the 
time of the loan her current account was in overdraft. So, while I note the other comments 
made, I do not find I can say it was reasonable that this loan was provided when Miss Z 
didnt have a regular income that she could use to make the repayments.
Putting things right
In this case, I think its fair that Miss Z should only have to repay the money she borrowed 
and had the use of. So, I think Santander should refund all of the interest and charges 
Miss Z has paid on the loan. 
To settle this complaint, Santander should
Add up the total amount of money Miss Z received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss Z has made should be deducted from this amount.oIf this results in Miss Z having paid more than she received, any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Santander should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss Z.
To the extent that there is any negative information recorded on Miss Zs credit file 
relating to the loan this should be removed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Miss Z a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should take the actions set out above in resolution 
of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman