DRN-4298517
The complaint
Mr P complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of a claim he made 
under his home emergency policy.
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In January 2023, Mr P made a claim under his home emergency policy with Admiral after his 
boiler stopped working. An engineer visited the same day and concluded that a new part 
was needed. 
Admiral told Mr P that the cost of the part exceeded his policy limit. Mr P agreed to pay £96 
towards the cost and the part was ordered. About a week after Mr P made his claim, the 
engineer returned to fit the part. However, he decided not to go ahead with this because the 
boiler was leaking, and he was concerned about damaging the new part. The engineer told 
Mr P that the boiler was beyond economical repair. 
Mr P raised a complaint with Admiral. He was unhappy that the engineer hadnt covered up 
the boiler or drained it on his first visit. He believed that this was likely to have caused the 
issue with condensation which meant the new part couldnt be fitted. He suggested the 
engineer might have attempted to dry out the boiler and fix it, rather than deciding it needed 
replacing. He questioned why the engineer hadnt established that the boiler was beyond 
economical repair during his first visit. Mr P was also unhappy that the engineer had delayed 
the second appointment by a day and hadnt told him in advance.
Admiral said it didnt agree that the engineer was responsible for the demise of Mr Ps boiler 
nor that delays could have been avoided. It was satisfied the diagnosis and subsequent 
parts order was carried out in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Mr P remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think Admiral needed to contribute to the cost of Mr Ps boiler. But she thought Mr P 
had been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience because of the service Admiral 
had provided. So, she recommended it pay Mr P £100 compensation.
Admiral accepted our investigators recommendation. But Mr P didnt think this was enough 
to compensate him for the stress hed experienced. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and conditions say that in the event of an emergency, Admiral will 
arrange for one of our authorised contractors to get in touch with you to make an 
appointment, or settle your claim on a reimbursement basis.
Emergency is defined in the policy and includes where a sudden and unforeseen incident 
in your home immediately results in your boiler or heating system totally failing or breaking 
down, or you having no running hot water. 
The terms dont give a specific timescale for the authorised contractor to attend. However, 
the engineers first visit was the same day the claim was made. So, Im satisfied that this 
happened within a reasonable timeframe. 
The policy terms also say:
The availability of parts is an important factor in carrying out emergency repairs. If the 
authorised contractor does not carry the parts needed when they come out to your 
emergency, we will do all we reasonably can to find and install parts from our approved 
suppliers
Admiral says that when Mr Ps claim was initially logged it was as a loss of central heating 
and hot water. The engineer attended and no leaks were apparent at that stage. His first 
point of call was a PCB which he went to quote for. He had to leave the boiler off as it wasnt 
working. When he returned with the PCB, the leak was apparent and the boiler was showing 
signs of thawing. Admiral says this was attributed to the location of the boiler. 
I appreciate that Mr P is of the opinion that the condensation could have been avoided if the 
engineer had covered the boiler or drained it during his first visit. However, I havent seen 
any expert evidence to support this.
In addition to his comments about the boiler leaking, the engineer has noted that hed looked 
at all parts of the boiler and four other parts needed changing. Admiral says the engineer 
was assessing a fault on the electrical side of the boiler only and had no reason (or leak 
evident) to access the remainder of the boiler on the initial call out. 
It seems likely that the boiler would have been deemed beyond economical repair sooner, if 
the other parts had been checked. But I dont have enough to say whether or not the rest of 
the boiler should have been checked on the first visit. In any event, Mr P was advised that 
the boiler was beyond economical repair six days after his claim. So, I dont think the overall 
length of time Admiral took to deal with the claim was unreasonable. 
I do appreciate that Mr P and his family were left in a cold house with no hot water and even 
a small delay in resolving their claim would have been distressing for them. I understand that 
Mr P was caused additional frustration when the engineer didnt give them prior notice that 
he needed to reschedule his second visit to the next day. Im also aware that he spent quite 
a lot of time waiting in queues and on hold, having listened to call recordings.
However, Ive considered the impact of these issues on Mr P, and I think £100 fairly 
recognises the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result. So, I dont require 
Admiral to pay compensation above the amount its already agreed to.
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mr P £100 for distress and inconvenience. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman