DRN-2231501
The complaint
Mr C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) failed to repair a leak properly 
following a claim under his home emergency insurance policy.
Reference to BG also includes its agents where applicable.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr C contacted BG as he discovered a leak in his home. It sent an 
engineer who exposed pipework at where the leak was thought to be positioned. He found 
that the pipes had not been lagged and advised Mr C to get them lagged in order to maintain 
cover. This engineer did repair the leak. 
In October 2016, Mr C had cause to contact BG as he had another leak in another part of 
the house. Nearly three years later in August 2019, Mr C found another leak and contacted 
BG. It sent an engineer who dug up the floor and found multiple leaks. He also found that the 
pipework still hadnt been lagged as Mr C had previously been advised to do in 2016. 
Consequently, Mr C had to pay for the repair of the leaks and the pipes to be lagged as they 
werent covered under the policy. 
Mr C was unhappy that he had to pay £804 for the pipework and £1,120 in respect of the 
new flooring that was replaced twice. As well as £7,200 for new kitchen units that were also 
replaced. He complained to BG that its engineer should have exposed the pipework to its 
extremities to properly repair the problem in 2016 when it took up the floor. He sought 
reimbursement for the flooring and the pipework. 
In its final response, BG said that as the pipes were not lagged (as it had previously advised 
Mr C to do) the work to repair the leak wouldnt be covered by the policy. In addition, it said it 
wasnt possible for the leak which happened in 2016 to only present in 2019. Mr C wasnt 
satisfied with this outcome and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He said that BG had applied its policy terms 
fairly as it had told Mr C that unlagged pipework buried under concrete wouldnt be covered. 
He also questioned whether it was possible for a leak to be present in the pipework since 
2016, but not be noticed until 2019. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view, but ultimately agreed that BG wasnt responsible 
for the repairs and accepted that it had applied the policy exclusions correctly. He also said 
that the main issue of complaint was with the engineers that BG used. He felt that the 
engineers failed to expose the pipework to its extremities, which it shouldve done under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. So he asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr C, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr C has accepted that BG fairly applied its policy exclusions correctly but felt that the BG 
engineers that BG chose to use, failed to carry out the repairs correctly. One of the terms of 
the policy is that BG is permitted to instruct suitably qualified contractors to carry out work, 
which is what had happened here. 
BG has confirmed that those contractors were aware of the terms and conditions of the 
policy and I am satisfied that this was the case as it was the contractors who notified Mr C 
that without the pipework being lagged, future claims wouldnt be covered. 
Mr C has said that it was the contractors who ought to have exposed the pipework fully and 
because of this, the repairs werent correctly carried out. He said that he got this information 
from engineers who and attended his home on different jobs, one quite recently. I asked Mr 
C if he could provide evidence from one of the engineers he says told him the pipework 
shouldve been exposed as part of the initial repair. Unfortunately this wasnt provided. 
I asked BG its opinion as to whether the pipework shouldve been fully exposed. It said that it 
maintained its position as outlined in its final response, in that Mr C had been previously told 
that he needed to lag the pipework as failure to lag the pipework would mean that any future 
claims wouldnt be covered. BG also said that it had written acceptance from Mr C 
confirming that he was aware that any future claims would be declined if the pipework wasnt 
correctly installed.  
It is not in dispute that a leak happened in September 2016 and although the pipes were not 
correctly lagged, that leak was repaired. I am persuaded that BG told Mr C that without the 
correct lagging of the pipes, any future claims wouldnt be covered. I note that there were no 
leaks for nearly three years. So I am satisfied that the repair then, resolved the issue and I 
dont consider it fair that Mr C expected the entire pipework to be exposed, when the leak 
was fixed. 
In 2019, another leak appeared. I accept that it was in the same area, but I am more 
persuaded by BGs comments that the leak happened more recently rather than nearly three 
years earlier. As I wouldve expected a leak with multiple separate leak areas to show signs 
of damage or water marks substantially earlier. So I dont think the leaks were as old as Mr 
C had believed. 
Overall, I think that BG has dealt with Mr C reasonably and I am satisfied that it applied the 
policy exclusions fairly. So I wont be asking BG to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman