DRN-1065244
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Legal and General Insurance Limited (L&G) rejected his claim for 
Trace and Access costs against his buildings insurance.
What happened
Mr C reported to L&G that he heard dripping sounds behind the wall in his downstairs 
bathroom after he used the shower in the upstairs bathroom. He explained that British Gas 
Homecare repaired a seal on the pipe upstairs earlier in the year but he was concerned that 
water may be escaping and causing damage to the downstairs bathroom. He told L&G he 
couldnt see any evidence of water damage but he was worried about the dripping sound. 
L&G sent a surveyor to Mr Cs home who recommended carrying out a Trace and Access - a 
way of finding out where a leak is coming from, which can cause damage to the property and 
buildings insurance sometimes covers the repair cost.
At first, L&G said Mr Cs policy didnt cover the cost of repairing the actual leak but it did 
cover the water damage and any repairs needed after the Trace and Access. L&G told Mr C 
he would need to pay the policy excess of £250, which he accepted. Mr C used a detection 
service, which didnt find a leak, and his bathroom was damaged during the process. He 
claimed against his policy for the Trace and Access repair cost.
In calls about his claim, L&G gave Mr C inconsistent information. In one call it said he didnt 
have Trace and Access cover. In a later call it said he had the cover but L&G rejected the 
claim because there wasnt a leak. The insured peril is damage caused by a leak but, 
because there wasnt a leak, L&G didnt think it was responsible for the repair cost. Mr C 
didnt agree. 
Our investigator felt that L&Gs decision to reject Mr Cs claim was unfair because L&G 
recommended Trace and Access, and:
L&G didnt tell Mr C during any of the three phone calls that it would only pay for 
damage caused by Trace and Access if a leak was found, and
the policy wording didnt make it clear that L&G would only pay for Trace and Access 
damage if a leak was found.
 
Our investigator said L&G should treat the claim as if there was a leak and cover the Trace 
and Access repair cost, less the policy excess.
L&G didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide. L&G 
explained that its handler gave correct advice based on Mr Cs report of a leak and the 
handler couldnt be expected to discuss every possible outcome. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator and my decision is to uphold Mr Cs complaint  Ill explain why.
Both L&G and Mr C agree that the Trace and Access caused damage to the downstairs 
bathroom but it didnt find a leak. L&G says it wouldve covered the cost of repairing the 
damage if it had found a leak but not if it didnt find a leak. I dont think L&G made that clear 
to Mr C despite several opportunities to do so, which I have set out below:
Mr C clearly stated to L&G that he could hear dripping but he couldnt see any 
evidence of water damage. So, given the possibility that there wasnt a leak, I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for the handler to explain that the cost of Trace and 
Access may not be covered.
The surveyor who assessed the situation advised Mr C to carry out the Trace and 
Access, so he acted on that advice after checking with L&G that his buildings 
insurance covered the work. It was reasonable for him to rely on expert advice in the 
absence of any visible sign of a leak.
Mr C repeated back to call handlers his understanding of the advice they gave about 
Trace and Access. The handlers confirmed his understanding was correct  that he 
would only pay the excess of £250 towards the cost of a claim and L&G would cover 
the cost of damage caused up to the policy maximum. The handlers didnt state any 
other limitation on his cover.
 
L&G acted as if there was a leak and advised Mr C to act on that basis. Mr C felt reassured 
that he could go ahead with the investigation, knowing it would damage his bathroom but 
believing his insurance covered the repair cost. Although L&G feels he wouldve had to pay 
for the investigation anyway, I think Mr C may not have gone ahead if it had provided a more 
detailed explanation of the Trace and Access cover limitations. I also note that the policy 
wording states the level of cover available for Trace and Access but it doesnt make any 
reference to what would happen if the investigation didnt find a leak. I wouldve expected the 
policy wording to be clearer on this.
Because Mr C acted on L&Gs clear confirmation that he would only pay the excess, my 
view is that it should cover his Trace and Access claim as if there was a leak. Mr C is 
responsible for the first £250, which is the excess set out in his buildings insurance policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Legal and General Insurance Limited 
should:
treat Mr Cs claim as if there was a leak and cover the Trace and Access repair cost 
up to the policy maximum of £5000, less the policy excess. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman