DRN-3780602
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected a claim under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the Act) relating to the purchase of a solar panel system. 
What happened
In March 2013, Mr H purchased a solar panel system (the system) from a supplier, which I 
will call S. He says the system was told the system would be self-funded through a 
government program of Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments. Mr H says he bought the system on 
that basis. But Mr H says that didnt turn out to be the case. S has now gone out of business, 
so Mr H was unable to pursue the matter with them.   
In April 2022, Mr H contacted Nationwide to make a claim under section 75 of the Act. This 
section of the Act says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has an equal right to claim against the supplier and the credit provider if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
Nationwide responded to say that it was unable to help, since Mr H had paid for the solar 
panels using a cheque rather than with credit. And the transaction happened so long ago 
there was no way for Nationwide to recall that payment. 
Mr H then referred the matter to us. An investigator looked into this and said that Nationwide 
had done nothing wrong. Mr H remained unhappy, so I was asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Act covers certain types of credit, including credit cards and point of sale 
loans. In this case, Mr H paid for the system using a cheque. A cheque is not a form of 
consumer credit covered by section 75 of the Act. So, Mr H is unable to make a claim 
against Nationwide under section 75 in relation to a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
by S. 
The cheque was cashed, and Nationwide sent the money to S, in March 2013. So, by the 
time Mr H contacted Nationwide about this, the cheque could not be stopped. And given the 
time that has passed, there is no way for the money to be recalled by Nationwide. 
I sympathise with Mr H since he has purchased a system which he now thinks was 
misrepresented to him and the supplier is no longer in business. But I have found no reason 
to conclude that Nationwide can or should do anything about this. So, I think that Nationwide 
handled Mr Hs claim in a fair and reasonable way and I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman