DRN-4364452
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about the increase in their premium in relation to their private 
medical insurance policy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited. They also complain about the 
difficulties they had contacting AXA.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs A have private medical insurance with AXA. Their 
policy renews in November each year. 
In November 2022, Mrs A contacted AXA about the premium increase at renewal. AXA 
explained that Mr A could restore his no claims discount if he bought back a claim. That 
didnt happen for reasons Ill refer to below.  
   
Mr and Mrs A say that the increases in their premiums are outrageous and unaffordable, 
and AXA havent explained them. They say that its been difficult to communicate with 
AXA. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly. The investigator said that AXA had priced Mr and Mrs As 
premiums fairly and in line with other consumers. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs A said that the price increases are 
unfair. She doesnt understand why we cant share the information AXA has provided. 
Mrs A said that Mr A has been discriminated against because of his age. 
The investigator considered what Mrs A said but didnt change his view. As there was no 
agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Each policy year is a new contract between the parties. The membership handbook sets out 
that premiums for this type of cover tend to increase every year and that the reasons for that 
include the policyholders increased age and the increasing cost of medical treatment. The 
handbook also explains how claims affect the no claims discount. The central question for 
me to decide is whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in its pricing of Mr and Mrs As 
premiums for the policy years starting in 2018. 
Given the increase in Mr and Mrs As renewal premium, particularly the significant increases 
in Mr As premium, I can understand their concerns. However, this service isnt the industry 
regulator, and we have no power to direct an insurer to reduce its premium. Its not my role 
to tell an insurer what price it should charge for the risks its policies cover, nor what factors is 
should take into account in assessing those risks. In general terms, its for an insurer to 
decide what risks it wants to cover and what premium to charge to cover those risks. Our 
general approach is that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to decide 
what premium covers a risk.
Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. When deciding how much to charge 
for their policies they will assess the likelihood of a policyholder making a claim and how 
much they might have to pay out for those claims. And each insurer will go about that in its 
own way. Its for AXA to decide which factors it wishes to take into account. Age and the cost 
of medical treatment are mentioned in the membership handbook, but AXAs considerations 
are not restricted to those two factors. 
The Equality Act 2010 says that its not unlawful for a business to treat someone 
unfavourably on the grounds of their age when providing insurance, as long as the risk 
assessment has been undertaken from information which is relevant to the assessment of 
risk, and from a source on which its reasonable to rely. 
AXA has provided this service with some information to explain how it calculated                  
Mr and Mrs As renewal premium for the relevant years. Im afraid I cant share that 
information with Mr and Mrs A. I appreciate thats frustrating, but this service doesnt think 
its unreasonable for insurers not to share with policyholders sensitive commercial 
information showing how it calculates premiums. Thats because the information could be 
used by competitors to gain a commercial advantage. 
Ive looked carefully at the information AXA has provided. Im satisfied that the premium AXA 
quoted was calculated correctly. Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr and Mrs A were treated 
less favourably than other policyholders in a similar position. Thats not to say that I dont 
agree with Mr and Mrs A that the premiums have increased substantially in recent years: 
they clearly have. But having reviewed the information thats been provided, I dont think that 
AXA calculated Mr and Mrs As premium unfairly. Premium setting is essentially a matter of 
commercial judgement and not something with which we would usually think its fair to 
interfere.
It was open to Mr and Mrs A to decline the renewal quotes and look for a policy with another 
provider. I understand the difficulty of doing that in Mr and Mrs As particular case, but it 
remains the case that they were not obliged to take up the renewal quotes from AXA. 
Mr and Mrs A say that it was difficult to communicate with AXA. Ive seen from AXAs contact 
notes that when Mrs A first contacted it in November 2022 about the premiums it sent her a 
quote to buy back Mr As claim. It sent that quote by post, but Mrs A didnt receive it. AXA 
sent the quote again by e-mail and extended the deadline for Mrs As response. I think that 
was fair. 
Mrs A clearly had difficulty getting through to AXA on the phone on some occasions. Thats 
clearly frustrating. AXA apologised to Mrs A for the delays she faced in getting through on 
the phones. I dont require it to do any more than that. 
For the reasons Ive explained, there are no grounds on which I can fairly ask AXA to refund 
premiums Mr and Mrs A have already paid or to limit increases in the future. I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed by that outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.     Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman