DRN-4006697
The complaint
Ms I and Mr W have complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited trading as 
QuotemeHappy.com settled a claim under their home insurance policy following a burglary 
at their home.
All reference to the insurer Aviva in my decision includes agents acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Ms I and Mr Ws home was burgled. Aviva accepted the claim and Ms I and Mr W accepted 
a cash settlement for stolen non-jewellery items. 
Aviva made a settlement by way of vouchers for jewellery items which Ms I and Mr W could 
use at an approved jewellers to buy replacements. For some items which couldnt be 
replaced, Aviva said it would pay a cash amount. 
From the lists provided by Aviva and Ms I and Mr W, the crux of their complaint is that:
The vouchers provided by Aviva arent enough for them to replace the jewellery that 
they have claimed for.
They havent received any cash settlement for jewellery items.
The list provided to the jeweller didnt match their list. 
Aviva didnt uphold their complaint. It said it had fairly settled their claim. 
Our Investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably. But Ms I and Mr W didnt agree. 
We asked for more information to understand what was claimed for, what items had been 
settled; for how much and by what method. 
I issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2023. 
My provisional findings
Insurers can achieve discounted rates with approved retail jewellers. So it isnt 
unusual for an insurer to settle a claim by way of voucher for a policyholder to 
replace their jewellery this way.
Some of the items listed by Ms I and Mr W were not items that could be replaced. So 
Aviva reached a cash sum for these items. According to Avivas list, they were:
Gents watch (brand S) for £25, Gents watch (brand M) £77, bracelet with charms 
£195, belly ring 24ct £140.
So, according to Avivas list, a cash payment of £437 was owed to Ms I and Mr W for 
these items. Both Aviva and Ms I and Mr W have told us that no cash payment has 
been made in relation to jewellery items. 
When Ms I provided a list of stolen jewellery items in February 2021 to Aviva, this 
didnt include a second rotary watch which is listed as item 2. 
Evidence of ownership for this item is the same as other items Aviva has agreed to 
replace. So for this reason I think Aviva should include this watch in the claim and 
provide a settlement for it. 
Ms I and Mr W have provided a copy of an email it received from the jeweller 
following a visit to the store. They say the vouchers werent enough to meet the costs 
to replace the jewellery items Aviva agreed to cover. 
There are two items which the jeweller provided details of following Ms I and Mr Ws 
visit to the store. The prices provided by the jeweller for these items: a ring and 
bracelet: are based on heavier weights and thickness of the bracelet to Avivas 
description and valuation.
Ms I and Mr W didnt provide any evidence of these items when they made their 
claim to support the weight and thickness of the items. Aviva didnt agree to meet 
their claim for the weights and thickness being claimed for, but has agreed to meet a 
lower weight and smaller thickness. 
Aviva says that Ms I and Mr W wanted to buy a replacement ring and bracelet based 
on the heavier weight and thickness using the vouchers. But this doesnt match what 
Aviva has agreed to indemnify for in relation to these two items. So any difference in 
price - if Ms I and Mr W wish to buy the heavier and thicker version of the items -  
isnt something that is covered under their claim. 
Ms I and Mr W dispute the value given for two other items: a relatives ring and a 
watch. 
No proof of the relatives ring was available. So I cant say that the valuation Aviva 
gave - based on the information it had - was unreasonable. The watch was - similar 
to other items - something Mr W says he bought at auction. Bank statements 
provided of payments to the auction house havent matched the amounts being 
claimed for. And so with the limited information available, I think Aviva reached a 
reasonable valuation for the watch. 
I will consider any new representations both parties may wish to make. Based on the 
information Ive seen, I intend to ask Aviva to take the steps set out below.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to ask 
Aviva Insurance Limited trading as QuotemeHappy.com to do the following:
Include the second rotary watch listed as item 2 from Ms I and Mr Ws list 
under their claim and provide either an evoucher or cash settlement for it. 
Pay Ms I and Mr W a cash payment of £437 as set out under the total 
settlement for the items that couldnt be replaced. I think this should have 
been paid when it provided the evouchers, so if it wasnt, Aviva should pay 
interest on this amount. 
If applicable, Aviva should pay interest on the £437 at a rate of 8% simple 
interest from the date the evouchers were available to the date it pays Ms I 
and Mr W. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. Ms I and Mr W didnt agree. In summary they say 
the Investigator accepted their claim in full but Aviva didnt. They provided receipts for the 
items they could - other items were purchased over 20 years ago and they were told Aviva 
would accept other evidence where receipts werent available. They say they can give dates of when they bought items from auction and we can contact the auction site for further 
information if needed. 
They dont accept my provisional decision and want to take alternative action. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it doesnt change my mind as to my findings and recommendations set out 
in my provisional decision. Aviva as the insurer makes the decision as to how it will settle a 
claim. Having considered whether this was done reasonably, I think Aviva accepted 
evidence provided for the majority of items claimed for. Ultimately it is for a consumer to 
reasonably show proof of ownership. So I dont think Aviva acted unfairly when assessing 
the items in dispute here. My final decision is therefore the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Limited 
trading as QuotemeHappy.com to do the following:
Include the second rotary watch listed as item 2 from Ms I and Mr Ws list under 
their claim and provide either an evoucher or cash settlement for it. 
Pay Ms I and Mr W a cash payment of £437 as set out under the total settlement for 
the items that couldnt be replaced. I think this should have been paid when it 
provided the evouchers, so if it wasnt, Aviva should pay interest on this amount. 
If applicable, Aviva should pay interest on the £437 at a rate of 8% simple interest 
from the date the evouchers were available to the date it pays Ms I and Mr W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman