DRN-2833458
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim asked her to 
pay their success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim she said shed hadnt 
authorised them to make.
What happened
Mrs D said she had searched online about PPI but hadnt asked any company to look into 
whether shed a claim. She said shed gone direct to her lenders. In June 2020, Mrs D said 
she received an offer of compensation from one of her lenders Ill call L to say shed been 
mis-sold PPI. But she was then asked by FTR to pay their fee for her successful claim. Mrs 
D said she didnt know anything about FTR so she complained to them.
FTR said a letter of authority (LoA) had been signed in August 2019 and theyd acted in 
good faith in submitting this to Mrs Ds lenders and pursuing Mrs Ds PPI claim based on the 
information provided to them in the initial application. They said the details were from a joint 
application with Mrs D named as the second applicant. They explained they wouldnt expect 
the signature on the LoA to be identical to Mrs Ds wet signature, as it was completed online. 
But as the signature had been accepted by L theyd acted fairly by continuing to pursue the 
claim. FTR said theyd updated Mrs D when PPI had been found and had sent her a PPI 
questionnaire to complete, both my email and to her home address. FTR said L told them 
when Mrs Ds claim was successful, and as she hadnt cancelled her agreement with them 
they said their fee was justified.
Mrs D wasnt happy with their response, she said the signature on the LoA wasnt hers. And 
the contact details FTR used were outdated. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Mrs D had authorised FTR to act on her behalf in 
submitting a PPI claim to L. and said their fee could be charged.
Mrs D didnt agree, she reiterated the signature on the LoA wasnt hers, and that she hadnt 
received any information from FTR. The first she knew of FTR was the contact she had from 
L. She asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my 
decision on what I consider most likely happened.
Mrs D has said the signature on FTRs LoA isnt hers. She has provided examples of her 
usual signature to show the difference between them and the signature on the LoA. But its 
not our role to validate a signature, we arent handwriting experts and in the case of forgery it 
would be for a criminal court to consider. In making my decision I need to determine whether 
I think its more likely than not Mrs D had authorised FTR to act on her behalf. If I consider 
she has, whether FTR knew she no longer wanted them to work for her. And to see whether 
FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with her
Mrs D has confirmed shed been looking to make a claim for mis-sold PPI but is adamant 
she didnt ask FTR to work for her. FTR feel strongly that they had been authorised as a LoA 
was submitted for their services in August 2019. And that it was the submission of the LoA 
that meant Mrs Ds PPI claim was successful.
The Financial Conduct Authority deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI claims to 
be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies (CMC) 
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. 
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. Any 
further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be used to strengthen the 
claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA was 
accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to 
investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim being auto 
converted. And a claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been 
accepted by any lender unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for Mrs D, who was 
named as the second applicant, on 25 August 2019, a few days before the deadline set by 
the FCA. Ive looked at FTRs web journey process for an online application. A screen shows 
a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
*Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24%
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of Engagement.
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens would have asked for information from the applicant(s) about personal 
details and lenders. FTR has shown an audit trail with the information supplied. This shows 
personal details, address and date of birth that correlate with the personal details Mrs D has 
given this service. But as she was the second applicant, the contact details provided related 
to the named first applicant. Mrs D has confirmed the email address supplied had previously 
been used by her husband. And the landline telephone number was hers, but she said this 
was only used for broadband connection as she only used her mobile telephone. A list of 
lenders was also supplied.
On completing the application, FTR has said the applicant(s) would have needed to agree to 
their terms and conditions. And this would generate a LoA populated with the supplied 
information. FTR has told us the LoA could only be submitted when a signature was added. 
I can see from FTRs records that the signature was added on the site at the time the 
application was made. As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. They said:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
FTRs records show that they sent in February 2020 several notifications to the email 
address supplied in the online application, that said You Have Paid PPI with a link to a 
PPI questionnaire.  I know Mrs D has said the email address was no longer being used, but I 
can also see from FTRs records that a letter was sent to the home address we hold on 
record along with a PPI questionnaire, part completed with the information FTR had about 
Mrs Ds PPI policy with L. The letter had a FTR customer reference number and said:
IMPORTANT: You HAVE paid PPI and action is needed to receive your refund.
We have recently tried to contact you to inform you that your lender has confirmed you have 
paid PPI and you could be eligible for a refund.
So, from this point FTR would have been providing their claims service. PPI being found 
didnt mean Mrs Ds claim was successful as it needed to be considered by L whether the 
PPI had been mis-sold to her. This is why the PPI questionnaire was included. As I outlined 
about the information asked for in this questionnaire could be used to strengthen a claim for 
mis-sold PPI but this didnt mean a claim couldnt be considered without one.
Mrs D said she didnt receive any documentation from FTR. But the letter was correctly 
addressed and shows in FTRs records as having been sent. And subsequent letters sent to 
the same address have been received from FTR and responded to by Mrs D. 
I will now look to see whether Mrs D asked FTR to stop working for her.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter
of Authority (Cooling -off period) at no cost to You.
The terms and conditions also explain how the agreement can be cancelled after the 14-day
cooling off period. And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done,
telephone, email or in writing.
I think until PPI is found Mrs Ds  agreement would have only been for a free PPI check. So, 
I consider the 14-day cooling off period starts form the date Mrs D would have been notified 
that PPI had been found and when FTRs claims service started. if I dont consider the email 
notifications, the letter detailed above was dated 24 February 2020, so Mrs D would have 
had up to 10 March 2020 to cancel the agreement without cost. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs D asked FTR to cancel the agreement either
within or after the 14-day cooling off period. In June 2020, L told both Mrs D and FTR that her 
mis-sold PPI claim was successful. The notification clearly shows the FTR customer reference. 
And L refers to Mrs D in their notification to FTR as our mutual client. I think this shows L 
saw FTR as being Mrs Ds representative and that they werent dealing solely with Mrs D. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs D asked FTR to stop or question them as to why they 
were contacting her or why L clearly referred to FTR in their final response. It wasnt until 
FTR sent their invoice for their success fee that Mrs D got in touch with them. I dont think its 
enough to simply disengage from the process to consider this as cancelling the agreement. 
And by not telling FTR she didnt want them to act on her behalf before the end of the 14-day 
cooling off period, theyd continued to provide their claims service. The agreement Mrs D would have had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This 
means FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work 
they did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. 
Where a claim was successful, FTRS fee maybe more or less than the value of the work 
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
I know Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision but taking all of the above into account 
Im not upholding her complaint. As I think FTR had been authorised to submit her PPI  claim 
and theyd submitted this prior to the August deadline. As the claim was successful. I think 
FTR is justified in charging their fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman