DRN-3496279
The complaint
Ms D and Mr M complain that Post Office Management Services Limited (Post Office)       
mis-sold a travel insurance policy to them. 
Ms D and Mr M also complained to the underwriter of the policy that it declined their claim. 
Thats been dealt with separately.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in August 2021 Ms D and Mr M bought a single trip travel policy 
from Post Office for a family trip during that month. Unfortunately, a bicycle was stolen 
during the trip. Mr M made a claim against the policy. The claim was declined by the 
underwriter. It relied on an exclusion in the policy.  
Ms D and Mr M say that the documentation provided by Post Office was unclear and 
made no reference to the fact that bicycles are excluded from the policy. They say that 
the lack of clarity was compounded by the fact that Post Office didnt offer cover for 
bicycles as additional cover. They want Post Office to either settle their claim or refund 
the premium. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Post Office 
had treated Ms D and Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. The investigator said that the 
policy was clear and that Ms D and Mr M had an opportunity to decide whether the policy 
was right for them. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that his main concern was that the policy 
referred to pedal cycles, which isnt clear. Mr M said that he wasnt referred to 
exceptions in the policy and the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) didnt 
draw his attention to the relevant exclusion. Mr M asked that an ombudsman consider 
the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint because I dont think that Post Office treated Ms D and Mr M 
unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:   
Ms D and Mr M bought the policy on-line. This was a non-advised sale, which 
means that Post Office didnt provide any advice about the suitability of the policy 
for Ms D and Mr M. But Post Office was obliged to provide Ms D and Mr M with 
information thats clear, fair, and not misleading, so that they could  make an 
informed choice about whether the policy was right for them.
Ive looked at the sales process. Im satisfied that the information Post Office   
provided was clear, fair and not misleading. The relevant policy terms says:
Section E  Baggage and Optional Gadget Cover
[]
 What is not covered: 
[]
k) The following items; boats and/or ancillary equipment; contact lenses, 
hearing aids, dentures, prescribed medication, musical instruments, works 
of art, antiques, pedal cycles, motorised vehicles and their accessories 
apart from keys, tents, specialised equipment relating to a trade or 
profession, samples or merchandise, stamps, documents, deeds, 
manuscripts or securities, telephone rental charges or pre-payments
[]
Mr M is concerned that the policy doesnt refer to bike or bicycle, but bicycles 
are a subset of pedal cycles. I think its clear that bicycles are excluded.
Mr M also says that the IPID didnt draw their attention to the relevant exclusion. 
The IPID provides a summary of cover and says at the top of page one:
This document provides a summary of the main cover and exclusions to 
help you decide if the cover meets your needs. The full terms and 
conditions can be found in the policy wording and your policy certificate. It is 
important that you read all of these documents carefully.
The exclusion in relation to pedal cycles isnt listed in the IPID but Post Office 
couldnt list all the exclusions in a summary document. 
During the sales process, purchasers are asked to tick a box to confirm that theyve 
had the opportunity to view, read and download the policy documents. I think    
Post Office provided Ms D and Mr M with information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading such that they could decide whether the policy was right for them. 
Ms D and Mr M say that the lack of clarity is compounded by the fact that          
Post Office didnt offer cover for bicycles as an optional extra. Post Office isnt 
obliged to offer additional cover or upgrades. 
Based on what Ive seen, there are no grounds on which I could fairly direct       
Post Office to either settle the claim or refund the premium. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms D and Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 Louise Povey
Ombudsman