DRN-1292451
 
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) didnt send her mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service on time.
What happened
Miss M instructed TCG to complete a MPPI claim. On 20 June 2018 Lender H rejected Miss 
Ms claim saying that the MPPI hadnt been mis-sold. Miss M was given the opportunity to 
refer her claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The letter explained that this must be 
done within six months. 
On 13 July Miss M was sent a claim pack to complete so that TCG could send her claim to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. In September TCG became aware that the customer 
declaration form used by the Financial Ombudsman Service had changed. 
On 30 November TCG received Miss Ms claim pack back however the signed declaration 
form wasnt the most up to date one. TCG sent Miss M another declaration form to complete 
on 5 December. On 12 December Miss M returned the correct signed declaration form to 
TCG. On 20 December 2018 the deadline to refer the claim to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service passed. 
Miss M complained to TCG, saying that because itd failed to send her claim to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, shed missed out on the compensation that may have been paid. TCG 
apologised for what had happened, and offered £175 in recognition of this.  
Miss M didnt think this compensation was enough. She referred her complaint to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service) for us to investigate. The 
investigator found that the offer from TCG should be increased to £225. TCG accepted this. 
Miss M said shed like an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint. I can 
understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss M but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I agree that TCG shouldve done more to ensure that Miss Ms claim was referred on time. 
 Theres no dispute that TCG made an error in failing to do this.
TCG found out in September 2018 that the customer declaration form used by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service had changed. TCG sending this form out to Miss M sooner, may have 
changed the outcome of Miss Ms claim, but well never know. I can appreciate this is a question thats likely to cause Miss M frustration and upset for some time. So its fair that 
TCG pay compensation in recognition of this.
Miss M says the compensation amount should reflect the likely amount she wouldve 
received had her MPPI claim been considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. I can 
appreciate Miss Ms frustrations. Theres now no way of knowing whether her claim wouldve 
been successful. But I dont think it would be fair for TCG to pay compensation that reflects 
what may have happened. We wouldnt speculate on the likely outcome of any MPPI claim. I 
think any compensation amount should be in reflection of the trouble and upset experienced 
by Miss M because of this lost opportunity. 
The investigator recommended £225 in recognition of what went wrong, and Miss M not 
knowing what the outcome of her MPPI claim wouldve been. This amount is broadly in line 
with what wed say is fair in the circumstances. So I wont be directing TCG to pay more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
The Claims Guys Limited should pay Miss M £225 to compensate her for the trouble and 
upset shes experienced as a result of missing out on the opportunity to have her MPPI claim 
considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman