DRN-3813460
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has declined his 
legal expenses insurance (LEI) claim.
All references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
Mr H took out his policy with RSA in August 2021. He was dismissed in April 2022. Prior 
to taking out the policy Mr Hs employer had begun an investigation about him and had 
suspended him from work.
Mr H contacted RSAs legal helpline, and he says he was told that he needed to wait until 
he was dismissed before he could make a claim.
Mr H contacted RSA following his dismissal and was subsequently told his claim was 
not covered.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that the 
claim was excluded by the policy.
Mr H disagrees. He has made lengthy submissions. Ive summarised what I think are 
his main points below:
  He refers to clause 2 of the exclusions and says it is a generic clause covering all 
the legal expenses risks covered by the policy including personal injury, 
consumer protection, residential, tax, as well as employment. Whilst the word 
event appears in the sections of the policy wording for residential and personal 
injury cover, the word event is not referred to in the section for employment 
cover. The policy wording does refer to dispute. The word dispute is not 
defined in the policy wording. However, under the definition of legal proceedings 
in the policy, the dispute he says must give rise to a claim to protect his rights in 
a civil court. He says the instigation of disciplinary proceedings against him was 
in accordance with his contract of employment and therefore did not entitle him 
to make a claim to a court. The bringing of disciplinary proceedings is therefore 
(under the terms of this policy) not a dispute with his employer. He says the 
dispute between himself, and his employer didnt occur until his wrongful and/or 
unfair dismissal in April 2022.
The event referred to in the general exclusions must be an insurable event
The disciplinary proceedings were not an insurable event or a dispute or 
cause of action for which he was entitled to benefits under the policy. It would 
be wholly unreasonable and unfair to allow an insurer to refuse to allow a 
claim on the basis that an earlier uninsurable event occurred and where the 
claim is not based upon that earlier uninsurable event.
At the time he took out the insurance the risk of him requiring the insurance was 
still uncertain.
The earliest point he could make the claim under his policy was the date of 
dismissal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After he took out the policy Mr H was dismissed following the conclusion of the disciplinary 
process that began prior to him taking out the policy. Mr H thinks that he should be 
covered under the terms of the policy. RSA and the investigator disagree.
Mr Hs insurance policy says  in the employment section  he is covered for:
1. The cost of you taking legal proceedings against your employer over your contract of 
employment. As soon as you knew of the dispute, you must have taken and followed 
legal advice from us.
The policy goes on to say in the general exclusions that the following are excluded:
2. Any event, dispute or cause of action that first happened or started before you took 
out this insurance.
I am content that the exclusions apply to claims relating to the employment section.
I am also content that even though the section on employment doesnt refer to events 
or causes of action that these terms equally apply to the employment section.
So, the key question is when did the event, dispute or cause of action first happen or 
start for the purposes of the policy? Mr H points out these terms arent defined in the 
policy. In that case wed interpret the words in the way they are commonly used. We know 
that Mr H did something in 2020 that his employer ultimately decided was something for 
which he should be dismissed. I think most people looking at the events that unfolded 
would say that the event or dispute first happened or started at the latest when Mr H was 
made aware that his employer was investigating his conduct. It doesnt matter that at that 
time it wasnt inevitable that he would be dismissed, nor does it matter that even if he had 
had LEI at that time he couldnt yet have claimed on the policy. Given I think the event or 
dispute that first happened here pre-dates the insurance, I think RSA was right within the 
terms of the policy to decline the claim.
At this service we are obliged to consider the law, but we can also consider what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Having done so I just dont think it would be fair to 
require RSA to reconsider the claim given Mr H took out LEI after he was aware 
investigations into his conduct had begun. He wasnt obliged to tell RSA about those 
investigations before taking out the insurance, but I dont think it would be fair to expect 
RSA to cover his claim given the knowledge Mr H had about the possibility of a claim and 
the fact that this insurance wasnt after the event insurance.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023. 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman