DRN-3734339
The complaint
Mr A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, service when he was 
given misinformation on an interest free deal.   
What happened
In early 2022, Mr A accepted a three-month interest free purchase offer on his Barclaycard. 
Following incorrect advice from Barclaycard Mr A was disappointed to discover one of his 
purchases pre-dated the offer.
When Mr A complained to Barclaycard, they refunded the interest he was charged and 
suspended all interest on his account for a further 2 months to ensure that he benefitted from 
the interest free offer on the purchase in question.
However, Mr A was dissatisfied with Barclaycards response. This is because he was given 
misinformation by different complaint handlers, and he felt his complaint was mishandled. 
Also, he said the error prevented him from taking credit elsewhere. In addition, he felt his 
credit score had been negatively affected.
Barclaycard apologised for providing incorrect information but felt their action was adequate 
compensation. Also, they assured Mr A that the interest charged to his account wouldnt 
have an impact on his credit file.
Mr A remained dissatisfied and complained to our service. Our investigator partially upheld 
Mr As complaint. She said Barclaycard should pay Mr A £100 as she didnt think they had 
addressed the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Barclaycard agreed to pay this amount of compensation; however, Mr A made a request for 
his complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, I agree with our investigator and Im partially 
upholding this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain this services role isnt to punish a business, or to ask it to reprimand 
staff. Also, we cant require a business to alter its complaint handling procedures or 
processes. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial services industry, and 
our role is to consider each individual case. Also, where we think a business hasnt acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to decide what should be done to put 
right any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
Barclaycard accept they misinformed Mr A and, in addition to offering an apology and 
honouring the 0% offer, to put things right they have since agreed to pay Mr A £100. 
However, as Mr A feels this level of compensation is inadequate for the level of distress and 
inconvenience he experienced, I have looked at the evidence on file to decide is what is fair 
and reasonable to put this matter right.
Mr A doesnt feel that Barclaycard have acknowledged their errors and have put him in a 
difficult position, preventing him from taking credit with another bank. I looked at Mr As 
credit score concerns and I agree with the comments made by the investigator and her 
manager that, based on available information, its difficult to say that Barclaycards actions 
are responsible for a points reduction. So, although I can understand his frustration in being 
prevented credit, there is a lack of information to support his assertion.
I looked at the way Barclaycard handled Mr As complaint and their response letter dated 25 
March 2022 which said:
I understand that you were advised by more than one agent that this purchase would be 
included. I would like to offer my sincerest apologies for the incorrect information received.
As you were given incorrect information, I am upholding your complaint. As agreed, I have 
refunded the £71.57 interest charge applied to your account and have suspended interest for 
a further 2 months.
So, Im satisfied Barclaycard have acknowledged their errors and did try to put Mr A back to 
the position he wouldve been if he hadnt been misinformed.
I can see that Mr A is concerned about the diligence of Barclaycards complaint handling and 
the performance of their staff and the complaint handler. However, as explained above, its 
not for our service to challenge roles and responsibilities or recommend procedural changes 
or disciplinary action. 
Unfortunately, Barclaycard are unable to provide call recordings, including those in which Mr 
A says Barclaycard staff made unprofessional comments. However, whilst recognising Mr 
As concerns including those over process and procedure, I found the above extract from 
Barclaycards letter dated 25 March 20022 and the following extract dated 13 May 2022 
demonstrated a professional and fair approach:
I understand that you were unhappy with our previous conversation. I would like to offer my 
sincerest apologies if this was the case. My only intention was to provide you with an 
outcome to your complaint which you were happy with and you agreed to this at the time.
Furthermore, I think Barclaycards offer to suspend all interest on Mr As account for a further 
2 months so that he could benefit from the interest free offer to be fair and reasonable. And, I 
think this, together with their agreement following the investigators view to pay Mr A £100 
compensation, to be a fair resolution for the distress and inconvenience their service errors 
caused.  
So, considering all the above Im partially upholding this complaint and I require Barclaycard 
to pay Mr A £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint.  
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to pay Mr A £100 compensation less 
any amounts already paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman