DRN-3164967
The complaint
Mr H complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV turned down some claims 
made under his hospital cash policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H is unhappy that CIGNA hasnt accepted his claim for some hospital appointments that 
took place in 2019 and 2020. 
Mr H has referred to the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which says that 
hes covered for each attendance at a hospital under outpatient benefit. However, the IPID 
makes it clear its a summary of the cover, and doesnt include the full terms of the contract.
Ive therefore looked carefully at the policy terms. This says the following in respect of 
outpatient benefit:
Following discharge after Hospital Confinement, a benefit equivalent to the daily sum 
insured shown on the Table of Sums Insured will be paid for each attendance by the Insured 
Person at a Hospital Out-patient clinic under the orders of a Medical Practitioner as direct 
consequences of and in direct connection with the condition for which Hospital Confinement 
was necessary.
Therefore, the policy will only pay outpatient benefit if the appointment is in connection to 
and following hospital confinement.
As our investigator has explained, hospital confinement in the policy means a 24-hour stay 
in hospital. As Mr Hs outpatient appointments didnt follow his discharge from hospital 
confinement, Im satisfied it was reasonable for CIGNA to say his appointments didnt meet 
the policy terms for outpatient benefit to be paid, and to therefore turn down the claims.
The policy does provide benefit in the event of a day patient appointment. The policy says 
the following about this:
Day Patient means an Insured Person who is registered as a Day Patient and who attends 
a Hospital on a planned non-resident basis and occupies a bed in a ward or day unit, and 
does not require a hospital bed overnight and is not in connection with an Out-patient or 
emergency visit.
Mr H said he did occupy a bed for his appointments, and so CIGNA contacted the hospital to 
establish whether his appointments took place on a day-patient basis. Unfortunately, the 
hospital wouldnt provide CIGNA with this information. 
CIGNA therefore wrote to Mr Hs GP directly and asked whether the appointments took 
place on a day patient basis or outpatient basis. His GP confirmed that the appointments 
took place on an outpatient basis.
Im therefore satisfied that CIGNA was correct not to pay day patient benefit for the 
appointments. 
I see that CIGNA has told Mr H that if hes able to provide evidence that he did occupy a bed 
in a ward, itll review the matter again. This seems fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman