DRN-3104525
The complaint
X complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) used the wrong exchange rate on 
a currency payment.
What happened
On 27 March 2020, X instructed Nationwide to make an online payment to send £44,500 in 
Canadian dollars to an account in Canada. The rate was 1.694. So  CAD75,383 was sent. 
The fee, debited separately, was £20. The payment was sent on 30 March 2020.
X complained. He said that because the payment was sent on the next business day, the 
exchange rate used should be the one on that day  not on the day he instructed the 
payment. He said that Nationwides terms and conditions supported his complaint as they 
said that if a transfer request is receivedafter 12 noon, the transfer will not take place until 
after the next business day. Because the rate had moved against him between the two 
days, hed lost out. He also said Nationwide didnt answer his complaint effectively and the 
CEO didnt reply to him.
Nationwide said they showed the actual rate to be used on the payment screen, and by 
clicking through click and confirm and confirm payment, he accepted the exchange rate. 
Their website also says that the rate for the specific payment is given before X submitted his 
payment request. This was in line with their terms and conditions also. So, the right 
exchange rate had been used.
X brought his complaint to us. Our investigator considered that Nationwide had acted fairly. 
The payment request was made at 17.05 on 27 March 2020  and X clicked on confirm 
payment to accept the exchange rate for that date. So  even though the funds werent 
transferred until the following business day, Nationwide hadnt made an error. 
X disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
X says that Nationwides terms and conditions say that payments which are instructed after 
the close of business are processed on the following working day  and so because of this, 
the exchange rate should also be the one applicable on that day. In Xs case, he instructed 
the payment to be made on Friday 27 March 2020  so the next business day was Monday 
30 March 2020. And because the rate moved against X, he says hes lost money.
Ive looked at what happened here. Ive looked at Nationwides screens which X wouldve 
seen when he X went online and asked for the payment to be made. At step 2 - X wouldve 
seen The actual exchange rate that will apply to your payment will be displayed on the 
Check and Confirm payment details screen, by clicking confirm payment you accept the 
exchange rate.
Step 3  showed the sterling amount and the exchange rate. Alongside this its stated, The 
current Nationwide Canadian Dollar exchange rate that will be applied to your Swift 
payment.
Step 4  headed Check and confirm payment details - showed the exchange rate and 
amount of Canadian dollars to be sent, plus the GBP equivalent.  And alongside this its 
stated, This will be the amount that will be debited from your account. At the bottom of Step 
4, X had to tick the statement I confirm the payment details are correct, agree to the above 
important information and exchange rate, authorise this transaction and accept any 
transaction fee. X then had to click Confirm Payment.
So  for me, the online payment journey that X went through was clear  and he agreed to 
make the payment at the rate shown to him on 27 March 2020  which was 1.694.
Ive looked at Nationwides terms and conditions. In the section regarding foreign currency 
payments its stated For Electronic payment transactions in a currency other than pounds 
sterling, we will convert the payment amount using our standard outbound exchange rate for 
that currency. Our standard outbound exchange rate may vary depending on payment type. 
These are variable rates that change frequently. When you ask us to make a payment, we 
will provide you with details of the actual exchange rate. 
In the section which refers to the timing of international currency payments  it says 
Payments are made on working days only. Payments due to be made on a weekend or 
bank holiday will be sent on the next working day. I think this must be the section that X is 
referring to. So  Ive considered what hes said here. But  what Nationwides terms and 
conditions say is that  the money will be sent on the next working day  which it was in Xs 
case. But - they dont say that exchange rates from a previous working day will be applied to 
later payments. As I see it, the booking of an exchange rate (which X did on 27 March 2020) 
and the actual sending of the money (on 30 March 2020)  are two separate things.  And so 
 I think Nationwide acted correctly. 
X had also referred to the way in which his complaint was handled at Nationwide  he says 
that his complaint wasnt answered properly, and that he didnt get a reply from the CEO. Im 
afraid that our service doesnt have the mandate to investigate businesses complaint 
handling practices. This service is governed by strict rules about what complaints we can, 
and cannot, look at. These are covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This 
defines a complaint as being about a financial product or service. So, complaints specifically 
about a businesss complaint handling or processes arent included. Xs concerns about 
Nationwides response here are specifically about how they handled a complaint and replied 
to it, so  this aspect of Xs complaint isnt one we can look at.
I can see that X feels strongly about his complaint and will therefore be disappointed by my 
decision, but Im not going to ask Nationwide to do anymore here.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman