DRN-3808291
The complaint
Company C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have unfairly refused to refund over €32,649 
it lost as a result of an invoice intercept scam. 
What happened
C imports goods to the UK and was in an ongoing email exchange with a seller overseas. A 
proforma invoice was issued that included payment instructions, which C used to send a 
payment of €32,649 to the seller. However, it subsequently came to light that a scammer 
had managed to intercept Cs email exchange and had sent payment instructions from a 
very similar looking email address to that of the seller, meaning the money never reached 
the intended recipient and was instead sent to the scammer. 
HSBC refused to refund the payment, as they said that C had authorised it. C complained as 
it thought HSBC could have done more to have prevented the money being lost to a scam.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. In light of the amount being paid, she thought HSBC 
ought to have blocked the payment pending further enquiry, which she thought would have 
uncovered the scam if C had been asked to check the payment details with the seller before 
sending the money. HSBC disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that C authorised the disputed payment made to the scammer from 
its HSBC account. The payment was requested by it using its legitimate security 
credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow 
the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
However, HSBC is aware of our approach of expecting them to have been monitoring 
accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual 
transactions or other indicators that their customer is at risk of fraud; and in some 
situations, make additional checks before processing payments or to decline them 
altogether to protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams. 
I have looked at the operation of Cs account over the 12 months prior to the disputed 
payment. And the transaction made on 11 December 2020 was significantly higher 
than any other payment that had been made from the account in the previous 12 
months, with the largest payment being for €6,834.70 on 24 December 2019. 
Therefore, a payment of €32,649 represented an increase of over 370% in spending 
from the next largest payment made from the account. It was also being made to a 
new payee, so Im satisfied there were enough triggers here to have alerted a 
responsible regulated bank such as HSBC that Cs account was being subjected to 
unusual and uncharacteristic activity
HSBC ought reasonably to have been aware of the common tactics used in invoice 
intercept scams and could have asked C whether it had confirmed the payment 
details with the seller over the phone to confirm they were genuine. The bank could 
have also asked C to check the email address containing the payment details to 
make sure it matched that of the seller, whereupon closer inspection they would have 
discovered that it didnt. Upon discovering this, Im satisfied C would have likely 
confirmed the payment details directly with the seller, where it would have discovered 
that the invoice had been intercepted by a scammer, thereby preventing the loss. Im 
therefore satisfied that a relevant and meaningful warning from HSBC would have 
likely exposed the scam and prevented Cs loss.
Ive also considered whether C should be held partly responsible for its loss, but I 
dont consider it should. C says that it receives around one to five invoices per week, 
so it isnt unusual for it to receive invoices and payment details electronically.  And 
given how closely the scammers email address matched that of the seller, I dont 
think many people would have noticed it was from a different sender. This was a 
clever and sophisticated scam, and Im not persuaded C can be said to have acted 
negligently by believing the payment details came from the genuine seller it was in 
contact with. So, I will not be making a reduction in Cs settlement as a result. 
As I am satisfied HSBC can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for Cs loss 
(given they ought to have intervened and prevented it), I dont consider it necessary 
to explore whether the bank did enough to try and recover the funds after the fraud 
was reported. In terms of the service C received, I appreciate it considers HSBC 
were slow to react. But as I will be directing the bank to refund the total amount lost, 
Im not persuaded that HSBCs actions have caused such inconvenience to the 
company that it would warrant an additional award of compensation in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
reimburse C the money it lost to the scam (along with any associated fees and charges if 
applicable). I also require HSBC to add 8% simple interest per year to that sum from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman