DRN-4184960
The complaint
Mr S complains about the settlement offered by Ageas Insurance Limited after his car was 
written off. 
What happened
Mr S had car insurance that was underwritten by Ageas. In April 2023, two weeks after hed 
bought the car, it was involved in an incident while it was parked and was written off. Ageas 
offered a settlement of £7,771 as it said this was the market value of the car. However Mr S 
said hed bought it for £8,995 only two weeks before the incident so this wasnt a fair 
reflection of its value. 
He made a complaint but Ageas didnt uphold it. It said it thought the car had been sold 
based on values for a different version of the model. And it had based the value on trade 
guides which are a reflection of the true market value of the car and this is what the policy 
covers for.
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he thought Ages had based 
its settlement on a fair market value. Mr S didnt agree, he asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S policy states that in the event of the total loss of the car:
The maximum amount payable will be the Market Value of the Insured Car.
It goes on to define the market value as:
The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the same make, model, age, mileage, 
specification and condition at the date of accident or loss.
In order to calculate the market value, Ageas has considered valuations provided by trade 
guides. This service considers these to generally be the most reliable for these calculations 
as they are based on the amount vehicles have been sold for and take into account the 
specific car make and model, mileage and age. As well as the condition of the car. 
Here, Ageas provided three trade guides which Ive also checked. These produce values of 
between £7,300 and £7,800. This service would expect an insurer to provide a settlement 
within the range of the trade guide valuations. And as Ageas offered £7,771, this is 
reasonable.
I understand Mr S doesnt feel the valuation is fair as he bought the car two weeks before 
the incident and paid over £1,000 more than the settlement offered. However his policy only 
requires Ageas to pay the market value of the car. And, based on the evidence, it seems the 
price he paid was above the market value. So while I understand this will be frustrating for 
Mr S, the policy doesnt require Ageas to pay the full amount Mr S paid for the vehicle. And it 
has done enough to show that the settlement its offered is based on a reasonable market 
value. 
Mr S has also provided some adverts that show cars that are similar to the one that was 
written off, advertised at higher prices than Ageas has offered. While I can understand Mr S 
frustration that the settlement wouldnt be enough to purchase those cars, I dont agree this 
means Ages has offered an unfair amount. 
Trade guides base their values on the exact details of Mr S car at the time it was stolen. 
This includes the date of manufacture, make and model and the mileage at the time. 
Whereas this isnt something that can be reflected in adverts. Also, trade guides base their 
valuations on prices that cars were sold at and not just the price they are advertised for. 
So for these reasons Im satisfied that Ageas has reached its valuation fairly and reasonably 
and met its obligation under the policy by offering a settlement of £7,771.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman