DRN-1662434
The complaint
Mr R complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) gave him 
wrong information concerning settlement options on a car he had been financing through an 
agreement with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The terms of the finance agreement said, under this agreement the goods do not become 
your property and you must not sell them.
Ive listened to the calls Mr R had with the company and Ive reviewed the settlement 
quotations. 
The quotations also advise that legal title can only pass to an unconnected third party.
Mr R was told that he could not buy the car himself but that he could sell it to an 
unconnected third party. Its clear that was incorrect information and that he could not sell 
the vehicle. 
Ive not heard that call handlers told him he could buy the car himself and it appears that    
Mr Rs actions before the extended lease came to an end was either to do that or to have a 
connected third party buy it on his behalf.
I dont think Mr R was ever entitled to do this and I think the terms of his contract; the 
settlement quotations and, to some extent, the calls he had with the business, all clarified 
this. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to ask the business to compensate him for the costs 
associated with the additional funds he arranged to buy the car, and I dont think it would be 
fair to ask the business to compensate Mr R for any charges that have been made for 
excess mileage. These excess mileage charges would always have been payable at the end 
of the agreement. And when Mr R asked about settlement hed already accumulated most of 
the excess.
But, as the business made mistakes when advising Mr R about the process, I think they 
were right to consider some compensation. Having considered all of the evidence I think 
£250 was a reasonable offer from them and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman