DRN-4019360
The complaint
Ms T says NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms T applied for a credit card in May 2018. It was approved with a limit of £1,200. Ms T says 
NewDay should never have lent to her. If it had checked her credit file it would have seen 
she had a high level of borrowing on another credit card. She was only working part time on 
a low wage and received universal credit. It will take her years to repay the debt and she is 
severely stressed and now on long term sick. She has to borrow from her daughter to repay 
the debt. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold Ms Ts complaint. He said NewDays checks had not showed 
that Ms T could not afford the loan, but given her low income it should have carried out more 
checks. However he did not think had it done so it ought to have made a different lending 
decision. He explained having other debt would not in itself be a reason not to lend to Ms T. 
Unhappy with this assessment Ms T asked for an ombudsmans review. She said her debt to 
income ratio was already high, more checks should have been done given her salary. She 
lost her job shortly after taking out this card and is reliant on benefits and family support.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
NewDay is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the
credit card it was giving to Ms T was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to
be proportionate to things like the credit limit it offered Ms T, how much she had to repay
(including interest and charges) each month, her borrowing history with it and what it knew
about her circumstances. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
This means to reach my decision I need to consider if NewDay carried out proportionate
checks at the time of Ms Ts card application; if so, did it make a fair lending decision based 
on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would most likely have shown. 
When Ms T applied for the credit card NewDay asked about her gross annual income. It 
carried out a credit check to understand her credit history and existing credit commitments. 
NewDay has shared the results of these checks.
They show that Ms T declared an annual income of £8,000 and that she had three active 
accounts and £1,200 of unsecured debt. She had no accounts in arrears and one defaulted 
account of £200 that was over 70 months old. Given Ms T had a low salary I think it would 
have been proportionate for NewDay to have carried out a fuller financial review. I cant see 
NewDay captured any information about her employment or residential status, or her 
monthly outgoings.
In order to recreate what better checks would most likely have shown I have reviewed Ms 
Ts bank statements from the three months prior to her application. They dont show signs of 
financial difficulties  such as payday loans, returned direct debits or reliance on an overdraft 
facility. And it seems Ms T had the disposable income to afford the amount of credit NewDay 
approved. So I dont think NewDay ought to have concluded there was a risk the card would 
not be affordable for Ms T had it carried out better checks.
Ms T says she had about £5,000 of debt on another card so her debt to income ratio was 
already too high, but from NewDays checks it saw she had a lower level of unsecured debt  
of £1,200.  From what I can see about Ms Ts other credit card (it is subject to a separate 
complaint with this service) its limit was £3,300 at this time so I think it is most likely her 
balance at the time was lower than she recalls. And NewDays credit check showed Ms T 
was up to date with her repayments. Having other debt would not in itself be a reason not to 
lend, if the amount appeared sustainably affordable as it did here.
Overall, I dont think NewDay was wrong to lend to Ms T.
I am sorry to hear that her circumstances changed shortly after taking out the card. I would 
urge her to contact NewDay to discuss an affordable repayment plan and I would remind 
NewDay of its obligation to treat Ms T fairly, and with forbearance.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman