DRN-3553936
The complaint
Mr D says that Lloyds Bank PLC, who Ill call Lloyds, were unfair to reject his complaint
about the sale of timeshares he financed through them.
Mr D entered into the timeshare agreements with his wife, but as the credit card was in his
sole name, I will refer only to Mr D in this decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I dont think Lloyds need to take any action here.
Our investigator thought Mr Ds claim about the timeshare he entered into in June 2014 had
been made out of time and I agree for the reasons Ill set out in a moment. But our
investigator didnt consider the claim Mr D had made about his timeshare purchase in July
2015 and I note Lloyds had considered that. Im therefore issuing a provisional decision so I
can provide my views on Mr Ds claims regarding both purchases, and so the parties have
an opportunity to consider, and respond.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act (2000). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
The Limitation Act 1980 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has the same right to make a claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
A claim under section 75 for misrepresentation or breach of contract against Lloyds had to
be made within six years of when Mr D had everything he needed to make such a claim. And
with regard to the first timeshare purchase, I think that was when he purchased it in June
2014. After all, he says that he entered into the agreement to purchase the timeshare
because of misrepresentations. And as the upshot of the claim was that he would not have
made the purchase but for the misrepresentations at the Time of Sale, it was at that time that
he suffered a loss because he ended up borrowing money from Lloyds. So, Mr D had until
June 2020 to raise a section 75 claim with Lloyds. As he didnt do so until September 2020 I
think its likely a court would consider his section 75 claim for the first agreement to be time
barred.
I dont think it likely they would accept Mr Ds suggestion he didnt have all he needed to
make his claim until later than that. I say that because although Mr D has suggested it was
only much later that he realised he couldnt make the bookings he wished to, he hasnt
provided any evidence in support of that, and I note that he was able to at least book the
holiday to F, as that was when he signed up for the second agreement. I think the fact the
section 75 claim for the first agreement is likely to be time barred would give Lloyds a
complete defence to that claim.
The July 2015 purchase and the claim under the CCA
I dont agree that the July 2015 agreement was simply an extension of the June 2014
agreement. It was with G and not V, and it was subject to a new purchase agreement to
cover accommodation for a longer period, and at a different hotel.
I think Mr Ds claim under the CCA was made in time in respect of that agreement.
Ill therefore consider the merits of the complaint points Mr D raised with Lloyds in respect of
the July 2015 agreement.
Section 75
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to
enter into the contract.
Mr D says the second agreement was in effect misrepresented to him because he was
provided with false statements of fact. He says he was told he could book holidays but found
he couldnt, and he says he was told he would be able to sell his timeshare but couldnt.
The standard information form explained that Mr D may freely dispose of his right, free of
charge but I cant see from the information provided that a promise was made that Mr D
could sell his timeshare rights. I dont therefore think a court would think the agreement had
been misrepresented on those grounds.
Neither have I seen any evidence to support Mr Ds assertion that the accommodation
promised at A, or through the associated exchange scheme, wasnt available to him, I dont
think a court would think there was evidence of that either, and I dont therefore think Lloyds
were unreasonable to reject Mr Ds section 75 claim regarding the second agreement.
Section 56 and section 140A of the CCA
Under section 140A and section 140B of the CCA a court has the power to consider whether
a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate orders
in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties andrefunding payments. In deciding whether to make an order, a court can have regard to any
connected agreement; in this case, that could include the agreement for the sale of the
timeshare product in 2015.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of section 140A of the CCA, as the pre-
contractual acts or omissions of the supplier will be deemed to be the responsibility of the
lender (Lloyds), and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair
relationship exists between Mr D and Lloyds.
Mr D says he was pressured into agreeing the deal and that aggressive sales tactics were
employed. I think thats best dealt with as a claim under section 140A.
We know it is common that these sales presentations often lasted for a number of hours. Ive
therefore considered whether there is evidence that Mr Ds ability to exercise choice was
significantly impaired by the lengthy presentation, the pressure, lack of breaks, and the
alcohol he says they were encouraged to drink, as that may have created an unfair
relationship between them and the supplier.
Mr D had already attended a presentation in 2014, so I think he would have been likely to
have had an understanding of the approach that would be taken. Its clear that despite that
earlier presentation he was still prepared to go ahead with the 2015 purchase. I dont think
Ive been provided with sufficient information to suggest Mr D didnt understand he didnt
have to say yes to the agreement or that he didnt understand he could walk away without
entering into it.
The purchase agreement explained that Mr D had the right to withdraw from this contract
within fourteen calendar days with no need for any justification. I think that if he had
therefore felt hed been pressured into the purchase he had time to reflect and withdraw. I
dont think a court would therefore be likely to conclude that any pressure applied created an
unfair relationship.
It's for those reasons that I dont think Lloyds decision to reject Mr Ds claims was
unreasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments and/or evidence
Lloyds agreed with my provisional decision and Mr D didnt provide any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been provided with any further information, Ive not been persuaded to change 
my provisional decision. That provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman