DRN-3607664
The complaint
Miss N complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (SDFC) 
irresponsibly gave her a catalogue shopping account she couldnt afford.
What happened
Miss N applied for a catalogue shopping account with SDFC in July 2018. This was a 
running credit account with a credit limit of £750. 
In March 2022, Miss N complained to SDFC to say the credit account had been unaffordable 
to her from the outset and that it shouldnt have been given to her. The credit limit was 
reduced to £500 in April 2022. 
SDFC said that it thought proportionate affordability checks were completed when the 
account was opened which didnt show any concerns about her ability to repay. However, 
given Miss N had said she was struggling to afford the current limit, SDFC reduced her credit 
limit to £500 in April 2022. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think SDFC had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in giving Miss N a credit limit of £750 and thought they had acted 
appropriately by now reducing the limit to £500. 
Miss N didnt agree. She said that her income was and continues to be from benefits and 
that her income from these wasnt enough to afford the credit. She said thorough affordability 
checks would have shown this.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to granting Miss N credit, SDFC were required to complete proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender has to carry out, what is considered 
proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors. These might be things such as 
(but not limited to): the amount of credit being given, the size of the regular repayments and 
the consumers individual circumstances (e.g. their income and/or expenditure and 
repayment history with other credit). The key here is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all 
approach.
During the application, SDFC completed a credit check to understand what other debts Miss 
N held and how she had managed them. The credit check showed that she didnt have many 
other existing credit accounts and those that she did have were up to date with no history of 
payment difficulty. There were no defaults, court judgements or other signs of financial 
difficulty. I dont think there was anything within the credit check that ought to have 
concerned SDFC.
SDFC also asked Miss N about her personal circumstances. Miss N declared that she 
worked part time and earned around £5,500 per year and had a household income of 
£19,500, had three dependents and lived at home with her parents. As Miss N personally 
earned a relatively low income and had three dependents, I think it would have been 
reasonable for SDFC to have asked some more questions about her access to the 
household income and her essential expenditure. 
However, although Miss N has told us about her circumstances in 2018, this doesnt match 
with what she declared on her application form for the account. As there is a discrepancy, 
weve asked Miss N for copies of her bank statements from the time to help us understand 
what her circumstances were likely to be. Unfortunately, shes been unable to provide us 
with that information. Therefore, without more persuasive evidence from Miss N to show 
what her circumstances were in 2018, I cant reasonably say that more thorough affordability 
checks should have led SDFC to realise the account would be unaffordable to her. Im 
therefore not satisfied SDFC made an unfair lending decision. 
Ive also thought about whether the way Miss N subsequently managed the account should 
have raised concerns for SDFC. However, Miss N doesnt appear to have ever shown signs 
of difficulty in managing the account. She has never been over the limit, has always paid on 
time and regularly paid far in excess of what the minimum required payment was. On several 
occasions she also cleared the balance in full. So, I dont think SDFC ought to have known 
Miss N was struggling until she contacted them in March 2022 to make the complaint. 
SDFCs decision to reduce her credit limit as a result of that complaint was a reasonable 
action to take. 
If Miss N still feels the current limit of £500 is unaffordable and unsustainable for her she 
should discuss this with SDFC and agree an affordable way to reduce what she owes and 
arrange for the limit to be reduced further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman