DRN-4437781
The complaint
Ms T has complained Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost from her account after being 
the victim of an investment scam.
What happened
Ms T received an email that she believed came from a company (who Ill call S) shed 
invested with previously. They were asking for payment which would allow them to release 
her investment with them.
On 5 April 2022 Ms T paid £6,537 to S. She later came to believe shed been the victim of a 
scam.
Ms T asked Revolut to reimburse her. She felt they should have stopped her from making 
this payment. Revolut confirmed they had temporarily blocked the payment and only enabled 
it after Ms T confirming she trusted who she was paying and was buying goods and 
services.
Ms T brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator felt that no further 
intervention by Revolut wouldve stopped Ms T from making this payment. He could see that 
Ms T had received income from her investments during the previous couple of years.
Still dissatisfied, Ms T has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I dont dispute Ms T believes she was scammed and may have lost money on top of what 
she had already invested.
Theres no dispute that Ms T made and authorised the payment for £6,537. Ms T believed 
she was buying the ability to get her full investment back which unfortunately is an argument 
that fraudsters carrying out a scam would use. 
Im satisfied the transaction was authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Revolut has an obligation to follow Ms Ts instruction. So in the first 
instance Ms T is presumed liable for her loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Revolut 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
I have reviewed what happened to Ms T. Ive also considered whether Revolut should have 
taken additional steps before processing the payment which might have included providing 
warnings to Ms T.
But in fact the evidence shows they did. Revolut placed a temporary block on the payment. 
They specifically gave information to Ms T which covered whether shed been asked to 
make the payment. She was asked whether she trusted who she was paying, she confirmed 
she did and then confirmed she believed she was making a payment for goods and services.
Revolut has suggested Ms T lied to them, but I dont believe this is the case. As far as she 
believed, she was buying an insurance policy to allow her to claim her investment back. So I 
dont think she misled Revolut by saying she was buying goods or services. Ive also seen 
nothing from Revolut which suggests theyd have treated the payment any differently if they 
had known it was for investment purposes. 
The key is that I believe Revolut provided an appropriate warning, and I wouldnt have 
expected them to take further action to block the payment.
Ive also considered whether Revolut did enough after it was notified about the scam. 
By the time Revolut was informed that Ms T felt she was a victim of a scam, a considerable 
time had passed. So Id not have expected them to have been able to obtain any of Ms Ts 
funds. Nor did they.
Overall I believe Revolut took sufficient steps to protect Ms T and I wont be asking them to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ts complaint against Revolut 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman