DRN-2546870
The complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a store card. 
AXA France IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs C bought the policy in 2004, at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Mrs C and AXA a provisional decision on 29 December 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mrs Cs store card application gave a brief overview of the policys purpose and cost. There 
was a section where Mrs C could sign if she wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she 
didnt want it. Mrs C signed specifically to buy PPI, separately to signing the agreement as a 
whole to confirm her choices. So I think that AXA made Mrs C aware she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can certainly understand 
if she no longer remembers doing so after so many years.
AXA didnt give Mrs C tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. They did have to give Mrs C enough information to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs C about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs C chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And she didnt 
have any other protection in place aside from the very limited statutory benefits. So the 
policy could have been useful for Mrs C in case something went wrong. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs C could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking 
it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
26 January 2021. But neither Mrs C nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman