DRN-2349732
The complaint
Miss G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (First Direct), delayed two 
faster payments she made when purchasing a new car, and that these delays caused her 
significant inconvenience as she had to wait for the payments to be approved.
What happened
Miss G travelled 300 miles on a Sunday morning to view a car. At 11:37am Miss G used the 
First Direct online banking app to set-up and make a payment of £2,000 to a new payee (the 
seller of the car). When this payment hadnt been received by the seller, Miss G called First 
Direct at 11.53am and made a further payment of £2,010.
Miss G called First Direct several times the same day to see if the payments had been 
released, but they werent released until about 4:00pm. Miss G then drove 300 miles home 
in poor weather and darkness, and in an unfamiliar car and she complained to First Direct.
First Direct provided a final response to Miss G and said the delays were due to this being a 
new payment destination, and extra background fraud checks needed to be carried out. First 
Direct explained security checks are carried out randomly but are likely to be triggered when 
transferring large payments or setting up new payees. In addition, First Direct say multiple 
payments to the same destination can also be passed for a security check. First Direct 
offered Miss G £30 for the inconvenience the delay caused by the security checks, which 
she didnt accept.
Miss G wasnt happy with the level of compensation First Direct had offered and brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked at things for Miss G and thought First Direct didnt do anything wrong 
by taking the time they did to make sure the payments were genuine - especially as the 
payments were large and more than one payment was being sent to a new payee.
Miss G didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman decide her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G says she called First Direct a few days before she travelled to view the car. She says 
in this call First Direct told her the payments would be made automatically and didnt 
mention there may be a delay. First Direct say they cant find a record of this call.
On the day she bought the car, Miss G set-up a new faster payment payee using the First 
Direct mobile telephone app and made a payment of £2,000.  When this payment didnt 
immediately go through, Miss G called First Direct and made a further payment of £2,010 to 
the same payee. Unfortunately, both payments were delayed by fraud checks carried out by 
First Direct and werent released until later the same day.
Accepting the earlier telephone call Miss G refers to took place, I have considered Miss Gs 
view that First Direct didnt tell her there may be a delay when a faster payment is made, and 
the view of First Direct that their operator wouldve told Miss G this may be the case.
Regardless of what was said on the telephone call, I would still expect First Direct to have 
systems in place which protect their account holders from fraud, and it seems to me that this 
is why the payments took longer than Miss G expected. Internal security checks may lead to 
times when legitimate transactions like the ones made by Miss G are flagged, blocked or 
delayed while checks are completed. Inevitably, this would inconvenience Miss G, but I dont 
think this means First Direct necessarily did something wrong. 
First Direct has told us these transactions were selected at random by its fraud detection 
system for security checks. First Direct says their call operators wouldve used a script when 
speaking to Miss G when she called them to make the second payment. The script says, 
Your instruction to send money to XX, reference ending XXXX, for £XX, has debited your 
account and will credit the beneficiarys account immediately, subject to all internal checks.
I have also seen the First Direct mobile app tells a client that faster payments would normally 
reach the beneficiary straightaway, but this would be subject to internal checks.
I dont have the power to direct First Direct to change its policies or procedures, or to adopt 
new ones. However, I can decide whether First Direct applied their policies and procedures 
fairly in this specific set of circumstances. 
These were two sizable payments to a payee that had been set-up the same day and it 
doesnt seem unreasonable they may have triggered a security check before First Direct 
would release the payments. As I havent been able to listen to the calls Miss G made to 
First Direct, I have considered what is likely to have happened on the day the payments 
were made. In this case, because of the script provided by First Direct and the message 
contained in the mobile app in respect of faster payments, I dont think First Direct did 
anything wrong once the transactions had been picked up by their internal checking 
procedures. 
I empathise with Miss G that it was frustrating she had to wait for the payments to be 
approved and to reach the payees account, and I can understand Miss G felt First Direct 
couldve approved the payments much quicker than they did. I also acknowledge this meant 
Miss G had an uncomfortable journey home in the rain and the dark after she purchased the 
car much later in the day than she expected. However, in this case, I think First Direct did 
apply their internal checks fairly.
In respect of the £30.00 First Direct offered Miss G to settle the complaint, Miss G should 
contact First Direct if she now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I dont think HSBC UK Bank Plc 
trading as first direct needs to do anything to settle it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman