DRN-1309021
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the increases in premiums on his home insurance he had with Royal & 
Sun Alliance Plc ("RSA").
What happened
Mr P's home insurance with RSA started in 1996. Due to the time that has passed, RSA no 
longer holds any information about Mr P's policy.
Mr P has provided an insurance schedule that shows he held a 'buildings insurance' policy 
which included accidental damage. The policy was an index-linked policy and the annual 
premium cost £453.05.
From 2002 the policy was underwritten by another insurer. Mr P complained to the other 
insurer about this policy and the increases in his premiums. The complaint was upheld.
Because of this, Mr P considered he might have been treated unfairly by RSA for the period 
it underwrote the policy (1996-2002).
RSA explained that it had no information about the policy and so couldn't determine whether
Mr P had been treated unfairly.
Our investigator thought that as Mr P's insurance with RSA cost £453.05 in 1996, compared 
to £540.43 in 2002 when the policy switched (to another underwriter), the policy hadn't 
seemingly increased in cost unfairly.
Mr P responded saying that the £453.05 he was paying in 1996 was for 'buildings insurance' 
only. Mr P says he was also paying separately for contents insurance with RSA, so the cost 
was greater than what our adjudicator thought. Mr P remained of the opinion that he may 
have been unfairly treated by RSA.
As the matter wasn't resolved, it was passed to me for a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 8 January 2020. I didn't uphold Mr P's complaint. Within 
my provisional decision I explained I couldn't reasonably conclude RSA had acted unfairly. 
RSA confirmed it received my provisional decision and didn't have anything further to add.
Mr P didn't respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. I now confirm those findings and will explain my reasoning again.While Mr P's other complaint, about the other underwriter (who underwrote the policy from 
2002 onwards) was upheld, it doesn't automatically mean that something went wrong when 
RSA underwrote the policy from 1996 until 2002. Each complaint is assessed on its own 
merits.
In this case, there isn't enough information for me to be able to reasonably conclude RSA 
treated Mr P unfairly.
RSA has no information about Mr P's policy. Due to the time that has passed I don't find this 
surprising. Its over 20 years since RSA was the underwriter of the policy and I don't expect 
RSA to keep records indefinitely.
So it isn't known what Mr P's premiums cost over the years RSA underwrote the policy. And 
as the cost isn't known, I can't say RSA treated Mr P unfairly.
Mr P has managed to provide one insurance schedule from 1996 (when the policy was first 
taken) - but it still isn't known what the policy cost in the subsequent years.
When looking at whether RSA has treated Mr P fairly - I would need to satisfy myself that
RSA unfairly increased the cost over the years - and this was due to Mr P not engaging with 
the renewal of the policy/policies and not for any other risk related reasons. Given the short 
length of time the policies were underwritten by RSA I can't say that it would have been 
aware that Mr P wasn't the type of person who didn't shop around or engage with the 
renewals.
Mr P has said that the insurance schedule he has provided shows that he was paying
£453.05 and this was for 'buildings insurance' only - so alongside a 'contents insurance' 
policy he says he also held with RSA, he was paying far too much.
I would like to make it clear to Mr P that I don't have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. I would be in effect determining or telling a business how it should 
operate - and that's not my role. I must also bear in mind that when Mr P took out the 
insurance in 1996 - he would have been aware of its cost and presumably found it 
acceptable.
I do note that Mr P's policy in 1996 was an 'index-linked' policy. Home insurance that is 
index-linked means that the sums insured and some of the policy limits are adjusted each 
year to make sure they remain sufficient to cover the possible costs of a claim  such as the 
cost of rebuilding a property. This means the renewal cost can also be increased to pay for 
the increased level of cover. So it was likely that Mr P's policy was always going to increase 
in cost. It is also different cover to that provided in 2002 when the underwriter switched,    
 Mr P's policies were combined and was no longer index-linked.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman