DRN-2378492
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that UKI Insurance Limited declined their claim made under a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C, who is self-employed, stopped working in March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Mr and Mrs C made a claim with UKI for unemployment benefits under their PPI policy. 
UKI investigated the claim before declining it. UKI said it would ordinarily have required 
evidence to show Mr Cs business had permanently ceased to trade. In the circumstances, it 
agreed for Mr and Mrs C to simply provide evidence that Mr C had received no income from 
his business from March to June 2020, for example, in the form of business accounts 
statements and correspondence confirming he wasnt eligible for a government grant. 
Unhappy with UKIs decision, Mr and Mrs C complained to us. Our adjudicator looked into 
the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He believed UKI had acted fairly in the 
circumstances. 
Because Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the adjudicators findings, the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr and Mrs C have raised some secondary points about the PPI having been mis-
sold to them in addition to those in support of their complaint about the claim. But I can see 
that one of my ombudsman colleagues has already issued a final decision about the sale of 
the policy. So, we cant look into that matter any further.
In this decision, Ive focussed on the actions of UKI since its the provider of Mr and Mrs Cs 
insurance policy and is the financial business responsible for declining their claim. Having 
done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point for me in considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint would typically be to look 
at the terms of the policy. Although the terms exclude, among other things, unemployment 
claims where the consumers business temporarily stops trading, I note that UKIs shown 
some flexibility in its claims-handling here. Instead, given the unprecedented circumstances 
brought about by the pandemic, its waived the exclusion clause and told Mr and Mrs C it 
would consider their claim even if Mr Cs business had temporarily ceased to trade.
Nothing UKIs said suggests the remaining policy terms dont still apply. Among those terms 
are that claims must be verified with proof UKI reasonably asks for  or they risk going 
unpaid. Additional proof UKI might ask for is listed as including a statement from an 
accountant or the tax authorities. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence Mr and Mrs C have sent UKI in response to its 
request. However, I believe UKIs requests for further information are reasonable and I can 
understand why it remains of the view that the claim hasnt been verified. 
For example, Mr and Mrs C accept theyve been unable to provide this years accounts 
because, they say, theyre with the accountant. They also say theyre ineligible for the 
governments Self-Employment Income Support Scheme (SEISS) but I cant see that theyve 
provided evidence of that.
Mr and Mrs C have provided a letter from their mortgage lender dated April 2020 showing 
theyd agreed that no monthly payments were to be made between May and July 2020. 
However, my understanding of such payment holidays is that borrowers werent required to 
provide any documentation or undergo any affordability tests to qualify. Self-certification was 
enough.  
Essentially, I dont find that entering into a payment holiday is the same as showing Mr and 
Mrs C suffered a reduction in income. 
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr and Mrs C have said in support of their claim. 
Nevertheless, I dont believe its been shown to have met UKIs reasonable requirements for 
claiming unemployment benefits. I dont believe that UKIs treated them unfairly in declining 
their claim in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman