DRN-3150686
The complaint
Miss W complains that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) unfairly 
declined a claim she made under her furniture care insurance policy.
What happened
Miss W bought a new sofa in 2018. She paid extra for a furniture care insurance policy that 
would provide cover for five years. Amongst other things, the policy provided cover against a 
one-off incident of accidental damage caused by a pet. 
In March 2021 Miss W made a claim under this policy. She said her kitten had scratched the 
sofa over a one-day period when shed accidentally left the door to the room containing the 
sofa open. She said the damage had happened 5-10 days ago.
At the end of March 2021, a technician from Acasta came to assess the damage to the sofa. 
He felt that the scratches were the result of a build-up of scratches over time, not a one-off 
event. So Acasta wouldnt cover the claim. They told Miss W they would decline it on 1 April 
2021. 
Miss W complained to Acasta a few days later as she didnt agree her claim should be 
declined. She said she cleaned her sofa very often to keep it in the best possible condition. 
Therefore she said that the damage had only happened very recently as shed noted no 
damage the last time shed cleaned it. She also said that she locks her cat out of the room 
where the sofa is kept when shes out. And that the damage had happened because shed 
not closed the door properly when she left the house. Miss W said she wasnt willing to 
accept the technicians view that the damage had been done over time as there were 
multiple scratches on her sofa. She said that the damage had happened over one day. 
Acasta asked Miss W how often she cleaned her sofa. She told them she cleaned it around 
every 4-6 weeks. 
Acasta issued their final response letter at the end of April 2021. Having investigated Miss 
Ws complaint, they said they couldnt uphold it. They said that the technicians report stated 
that the scratches were on all the sofa seats. So he felt that this demonstrated a build-up of 
damage over time, not a one-off incident. They said that the policy only provided cover for 
one-off, sudden and unforeseen damage caused by a specific accidental incident. And that 
Miss W hadnt stated which day the damage had occurred. Acasta also noted that Miss Ws 
claim had only been for scratches on the centre seat of the sofa. 
Unhappy with Acastas response, Miss W brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied that there was enough 
evidence to show that Acasta hadnt done anything wrong by declining her claim.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Miss Ws furniture care policy says it will provide cover in the event of accidental damage. 
Accidental damage is defined under the policy as: The sudden and unforeseen damage to 
the product(s) not otherwise excluded under this policy. Accidental damage caused by a pet 
is limited to only one incident during the period of cover. The policy doesnt provide cover for 
damage caused by wear and tear. This is defined under the policy as: the gradual 
deterioration associated with normal use and age of the product. 
The technician who examined the damage to Miss Ws sofa noted damage to areas of the 
sofa Miss W hadnt mentioned when shed made her claim. And he felt that the number of 
scratches he could see showed that the damage hadnt occurred as a single one-off event. 
Miss W told this service that she initially misspoke when she told Acasta the damage was to 
the centre seat. She said shed meant that it was across the middle section of the sofa. Miss 
W also told this service that she didnt feel that the technician allowed her to explain this. 
She said: it was damage caused over the course of one day when I had not shut the door to 
the living room properly and the cat got into that room with the sofa. I don't know why they 
keep trying to say it is gradual build up, as I do not allow the cat in the living room when I am 
out as it is such an expensive piece of furniture. I clean the sofa regularly and told them this 
on the phone, and gave them a window of when the damage could have occurred. Miss W 
also felt that the age of her kitten hadnt been taken account when considering the damage 
that it could cause in a day.
Ive read the technicians report. And looked at the photos included. Ive also carefully 
considered what Miss W told this service. While I cant know for certain how long it took for 
the scratches to be made, I have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened, taking into consideration the information thats available to me. Acasta have 
provided a report from an expert which identifies several areas of scratching. And Miss W 
cant identify the single day when she considers her kitten caused all the damage. So Im not 
persuaded that there is enough evidence to show that the damage was caused by a one-off 
accidental event. And therefore it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Acasta to 
cover the claim.
I understand Miss W will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Acasta 
acted unreasonably when they decided to decline her claim. So Im not asking them to do 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman