DRN-3107385
The complaint
Mr M was involved in a car accident and made a claim on his motor insurance policy 
provided by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
Mr M has complained about both the service he received throughout the claims process, and 
the repairs that were carried out by RSAs approved repairers.
What happened
Mr M was involved in an accident in his car. It was hit in the rear by a third party. RSA 
arranged for one of its approved repairers to carry out repairs to Mr Ms car.
When Mr Ms car was returned to him, he was unhappy with the repairs that had been 
carried out. Mr M explained the car had scratches to the rear, the replacement textured 
bumpers colour did not match the original arch textured bumpers that they adjoined, the car 
was losing power, and there was an issue with the clutch. Mr M also complained that his car 
was returned to him with less fuel.
The garage carried out further work to the scratched areas of the car to remove the 
scratches and explained it had used a bumper gel on all parts of the textured bumper to 
attempt to get a reasonable colour match. The reason the colours didnt match was because 
the undamaged parts of the car were worn.
The garage also explained Mr Ms car had been road tested before it was returned to him 
and there were no concerns about the car losing power, or any clutch issues.
Mr M was still unhappy with the response from RSA and the repairing garage, and after a 
conversation Mr M had with RSA where it was also found that Mr M was unhappy that an air 
filter flap had become loose, it was agreed that the car would be assessed. 
In the meantime, Mr M was contacted and told a replacement part had been arranged. It 
wasnt until Mr M explained to RSA that no replacement part was ordered that RSA realised 
this was a mistake. RSA says there was a mix up and there wasnt a replacement part it was 
the cost of the assessment that was authorised.
Mr M doesnt believe this explanation is correct and feels RSA are treating him unfairly. Mr M 
also states that there is a call recording missing and he thinks this is a deliberate attempt to 
withhold evidence. RSA has explained the call is not available due to a technical fault.
Mr Ms car was assessed, and it was found that only impact damage to the rear of car had 
been repaired as part of Mr Ms claim. The engineer was unable to attribute any loss of 
power or loose air filter flap to the bumper repair.
Mr M was not satisfied with the assessment that had been carried out, so RSA offered a 
further independent assessment to be carried out from a different company. Mr M declined 
this offer; he said RSA only made the offer when he said he would bring a complaint to our 
service and by this time it was too late as he was arranging a replacement car.
RSA paid Mr M a total of £350 compensation for the complaint he raised with it. This 
included £100 return of his policy excess, £100 for the missing call, £100 to resolve the 
complaint and £50 for the lost fuel.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and thought RSA had acted reasonably so 
she didnt ask it to do anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed so this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to explain that I am not an engineer. It is my job to look at all of the 
evidence provided by both RSA and Mr M to find whether RSA acted reasonably or not 
when dealing with Mr Ms complaint. This naturally involves considering any expert evidence 
available.
It is clear from the evidence available that the overall service Mr M received throughout his 
claim was lower than he should have expected. Repairs to his car should have been carried 
out correctly the first time and the overall claims process could have been much smoother. 
But I think RSA has acted fairly in relation to Mr Ms complaint to the damage to his car. 
When Mr M explained he wasnt happy with the repairs that were carried out rectification 
work was carried out. 
I dont think it would be fair to expect the repairing garage to be able to match new car parts 
to those that are already on the car, especially when the parts adjoin and are textured. The 
attempt made by the garage to match the parts using a bumper gel seems to be a fair 
attempt to correct this issue.
When Mr M was still not happy with the repairs and explanations given by the repairing 
garage I think it made a fair decision to assess the damage to the car, and when Mr M 
remained unhappy I think it offered a further fair resolution when it offered to arrange a 
different independent assessment from a different engineer at a different company. While I 
appreciate this option wasnt offered to Mr M until he told RSA he would make a complaint to 
this service I still think this offer is fair and the outcome would offer further independent 
evidence to identify any damaged that was caused to Mr Ms car either during the accident, 
or during the repair process.
I understand Mr M declined the offer of having his car assessed independently and 
explained he was changing the car. But I cant hold RSA responsible for Mr Ms decision.
I can see Mr M feels RSA has been dishonest and has shown this by losing a call recording 
that may have contained important evidence and telling him incorrect information. But I think 
RSAs explanation of the call recording being lost due to a technical issue and incorrect 
information being told to him being a genuine mistake are fair. In my experience even the 
larger companies encounter technical difficulties at times and mistakes are sometimes 
made.
Overall, I think the compensation and independent assessment offer to Mr M was fair and I 
dont think it should have to do anything more to resolve his complaint.
 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman