DRN-2410781
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the delays to a claim on her Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H suffered a water leak in the loft of her house. She took photos of the damaged items 
and contacted Lloyds to submit a claim under her home insurance policy. Mrs H said a visit 
was arranged to see which items would need repairing or replacing. But Lloyds told Mrs H it 
still wanted to send its own claims assessor as well.
Unfortunately the covid-19 situation had deteriorated and Mrs H was concerned about the 
assessor entering her house. So she asked if the claim could be dealt with remotely. Mrs H 
was told the assessor would still need to visit and she would have to keep everything thatd 
been damaged in the claim. 
Mrs H was unhappy as the items were soaking wet and she had nowhere to store them. 
Shed already had one visit from a company on behalf of Lloyds before the lockdown. So she 
thinks Lloyds couldve settled the items thatd already been looked at. Because of the 
continuing delays Mrs H decided to withdraw her claim. But shes unhappy with the way her 
claim was handled by Lloyds.
Lloyds said it felt itd followed the correct procedures. Thered been a delay due to the covid-
19 restrictions which were out of its control. After appointing a trusted supplier to validate the 
claim Lloyds felt it needed a further visit from its claim assessor. But Mrs H had been 
concerned about a face to face visit. And Lloyds said it couldnt make any settlement until 
the assessment had been completed. 
Lloyds apologised for not responding to Mrs H when she withdrew her claim. It could see 
shed had to send further emails to confirm the situation. And as a result Lloyds paid Mrs H 
£25 compensation for its error.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Mrs H had concerns about a face to face 
visit during the covid-19 pandemic. And shed hoped Lloyds would settle things remotely. But 
our investigator didnt think Lloyds had been unreasonable in asking for a visit to validate the 
full claim. Water damage can be difficult to assess. It isnt always possible from video calls or 
photographs. 
Our investigator recognised the difficulties caused by the restrictions due to covid-19. But 
she couldnt say Lloyds hadnt tried to progress the claim reasonably. Itd offered to put 
things on hold until the restrictions lifted. But Mrs H had decided to withdraw the claim and 
Lloyds werent able to do anything more once she did. So our investigator wasnt able to 
suggest a remedy on this occasion.
Mrs H didnt agree. Shes still very disappointed with the way Lloyds handled things. So 
shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Hs concerns. The covid-19 situation has caused difficulties for both 
consumers and companies alike. And its important both parties feel safe while they go about 
their business. I can appreciate Mrs Hs concerns that the situation might not change for a 
number of months. She had damp and damaged possessions to deal with and she just 
wanted a quick resolution from Lloyds.
So Ive looked at everything thats happened to see if Lloyds has done anything wrong. And 
if so what it needs to do to put things right.
Mrs M suffered a water leak in mid-February 2020 which damaged furniture in two bedrooms 
and in the rooms below. Following an initial inspection to look at the carpets, decoration and 
furniture, Lloyds said it needed to send a claims assessor to look at the overall picture 
including personal items. But Mrs H was concerned about the developing covid-19 situation. 
And she asked if the claim could be settled remotely.
Although Lloyds had received photographs and quotations from Mrs H it felt it wasnt able to 
progress the claim until itd met with her. Lloyds said it needed to look at the damage thatd 
occurred and the items being claimed for. 
Any claim involving an escape of water is likely to cause some distress and inconvenience. 
And it can be difficult for insurers to assess the full extent of the damage without a proper 
inspection. Mrs H had submitted a long list of items damaged by the leak. And Lloyds 
wanted to check further before deciding on the claim. 
The contents section of Mrs Hs home insurance provided cover for an escape of water. And 
the policy document asks the claimant not to throw away any damaged items before Lloyds 
has the chance to see them or carry out any non-emergency repairs before its had a chance 
to inspect them. This helps the insurer prove and substantiate the loss. 
Lloyds said it wasnt able to progress the claim until it had more information. And it didnt 
think it would be able to do so remotely. So in the circumstances I dont think Lloyds acted 
unfairly in suggesting the claim be put on hold until it was able to safely arrange a visit with 
its assessor. Lloyds said if Mrs H wanted to carry out any repairs or redecoration in the 
meantime it would look at paying those costs if it accepted her claim. But it wasnt prepared 
to part-settle. It wanted to carry out a full inspection before deciding whether to accept Mrs 
Hs claim. 
I can understand Mrs Hs frustration with the amount of time it was taking to deal with the 
water damage. She had a number of water-damaged items she was being asked to keep 
until Lloyds could look at them. And I can understand her concerns about accepting visits 
until the situation was safer. 
But its not unreasonable for Lloyds to ask questions and inspect damage during a claim, 
even if that meant there might be some delay. And I do think Lloyds tried to listen to Mrs Hs 
concerns during a difficult period of time. 
I understand Mrs H withdrew her claim so she could get on with things herself and return to 
some sort of normality. It was a difficult period of time. But I do think Lloyds tried to take into account Mrs Hs concerns. Lloyds offered to put things 
on hold until a more suitable time for a visit could be arranged. But when Mrs H withdrew her 
claim Lloyds wouldnt have been able to consider the matter anymore or take any further 
action.
I realise Mrs H will be disappointed with this outcome. And I appreciate how difficult it can be 
to deal with an escape of water - especially during such a difficult period. But I cant say 
Lloyds acted unreasonably in how it dealt with the matter. And I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman