DRN-1937629
 
The complaint
Miss S says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to her. 
The complaint is brought to this service on Miss Ss behalf by a claims management 
company. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Miss S.
What happened
This complaint is about 11 short term loans Sunny provided to Miss S between March 2017 
and May 2018. The loans were repayable by six monthly instalments. All the loans have 
been repaid. Miss Ss borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number Date of loan Repayment date Loan amount 
1.  7/3/17 24/5/17 £250
2.  8/4/17 24/5/17 £150
3.  17/5/17 24/5/17 £50
4.  13/11/17 21/11/17 £250
5.  24/11/17 26/3/18 £150
6.  27/11/17 26/3/18 £200
7.  1/3/18 6/6/18 £100
8.  8/4/18 21/4/18 £300
9.  23/4/18 6/6/18 £50
10.  16/5/18 6/6/18 £150
11.  20/5/18 6/6/18 £50
 
Our adjudicator's view
Our adjudicator recommended that Miss Ss complaint should be upheld in part. He said that 
Loans 6 to 11 shouldnt have been given to Miss S. By Loan 6 the overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested that Miss S was persistently reliant on short term loans. Sunny disagreed. The lender said that Miss Ss net disposable income ranged from £380 to 
£606 and the percentage of Miss Ss net income required for the loan repayments ranged 
from 1.34% to 8.75%. It had used Miss Ss income and expenditure and credit reference 
agency information to ensure the amounts it agreed to lend could be repaid without undue 
difficulty over the term of the loans. Sunny said that the repayments on the other credit 
commitments declared by Miss S were taken into consideration in determining whether the 
loans were affordable. Sunny also said that Miss S had repaid her loans early. Sunny also 
said that it allowed consumers to take up to four loans with it at any one time subject to an 
affordability and creditworthiness assessment. 
Another adjudicator then reviewed the complaint. He recommended that Loans 9 to 11 
should be upheld. He noted that there had been a substantial break between Loans 3 and 4 
and considered that Loan 4 was the start of a new lending chain. He also said that from 
Loan 9 Miss S started to show signs that she was becoming reliant on the loans as she had 
taken out six loans in around five months.
Sunny didnt provide a response to the second adjudicators view. So the complaint has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to investigate.
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     Miss 
S and to Sunny on 18 May 2020.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when Sunny lent to Miss S the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Id said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Miss S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, Id thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
Id thought it was important to say that Sunny was required to establish whether Miss S 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. Id explained that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Ss complaint.
Sunny had made a number of checks before it lent to Miss S. It had asked her for details of 
her income and expenditure. Miss Ss declared income for all the loans was £1,000. Sunny 
had shown Miss Ss total expenditure in its Loan Datasheet as between £370 and £821 for 
Loans 1 to 11. 
Sunny had also said that it had checked Miss Ss credit file before agreeing to the loans. It 
hadnt provided us with the detailed results of its credit checks. But it did note in its Loan 
Datasheet that Miss S wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement or in a debt 
management plan at the time she took out the loans. It also showed that Miss S didnt have 
more than two outstanding short term loans at the point of any of the loan applications.
Wed not received a credit report from Miss S. So I wasnt aware of any adverse information 
on Miss Ss credit file that I thought might have caused additional concerns to Sunny.
Miss S had needed to make total monthly loan repayments of around £74 to £137 to Sunny 
for Loans 1 to 3. Loan 1 was still outstanding when shed taken out Loan 2. And Loans 1 and 
2 were still outstanding when she took out Loan 3. But I thought the total monthly repayment 
amounts due for Loans 1 to 3 would have appeared relatively modest compared to Miss Ss 
declared income. And although Miss S had up to three outstanding loans with Sunny, I didnt 
think the repayment amounts on Loans 1 to 3 were so large that it was obvious they 
wouldve caused Miss S financial difficulty.
So given Miss Ss repayment amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the 
time, and her history with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to 
have asked her for the amount of information that would have been needed to show Loans 1 
to 3 were unsustainable.  
And I didnt think there was anything in the information Miss S provided before Loans 1 to 3 
or the information Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what she was saying. So I didnt think Sunny was wrong to 
give Loans 1 to 3 to Miss S. 
Miss S repaid Loans 1 to 3 early and then took out Loan 4 almost six months after these 
were repaid. I thought it was reasonable for Sunny to have seen this gap as an indication 
that Miss Ss finances had moved on from whatever situation had required her previous 
loans.
Miss S needed to make monthly loan repayments of around £50 to £76 to Sunny for Loans 4 
and 5. I thought the monthly repayment amounts due for Loans 4 and 5 would have 
appeared relatively modest compared to Miss Ss declared income. And I didnt think the 
repayment amounts on Loans 4 and 5 were so large that it was obvious they wouldve 
caused Miss S financial difficulty.So given Miss Ss repayment amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the 
time, and her history with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to 
have asked her for the amount of information that would have been needed to show Loans 4 
and 5 were unsustainable.  
And I didnt think there was anything in the information Miss S provided before Loans 4 and 
5 or the information Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what she was saying. So I didnt think Sunny was wrong to 
give Loans 4 and 5 to Miss S. 
Miss S applied for Loan 6 just six days after repaying Loan 4 and three days after taking out 
Loan 5. Loan 6 was her third loan in two weeks and Loan 5 was still outstanding. Her total 
monthly payment had increased to around £117.
I appreciated that Sunny had asked Miss S for her income and expenditure. But I thought the 
frequency and increasing amount of her borrowing with repayments over six months were 
such that it wasnt reasonable for Sunny to rely on that information by the time of Loan 6. So 
I thought this should have prompted Sunny to do some additional checks such as asking 
Miss S for more information about her other short term borrowing commitments.
I would have normally looked at the borrowers bank statements to see what proportionate 
checks would likely have shown. It didnt appear that Miss S had been had asked to supply 
these so Id asked the adjudicator to request these from Miss S. Id noted from the bank 
statements that were then supplied that Miss S appeared to have one other short term loan 
with another lender which would have been repayable around the same time as Loan 6. As 
the repayment for her other loan appeared to be around £45, I couldnt safely say that if 
Sunny had carried out proportionate checks before Loan 6, it wouldve seen that Miss S 
couldnt sustainably make the repayments to Loan 6. So I didnt uphold her complaint about 
this loan. 
Miss S took out Loan 7 whilst Loans 5 and 6 were still outstanding. Her total repayments for 
the three loans were around £150. Miss Ss declared expenditure had also increased to 
£686 so her declared disposable income had reduced by around £160. Loan 7 was also 
Miss Ss fourth loan from Sunny in less than four months with only a gap of three days 
without a loan in that period. So I thought by that time that Sunny might have been 
concerned that Miss S was struggling to manage her finances.
So I didnt think it was reasonable for Sunny to base its assessment before Loan 7 on the 
information provided by Miss S without taking steps to independently check what shed 
declared. I thought it might have been proportionate at that time for Sunny to have 
independently reviewed the true state of Miss Ss finances. This was to make sure Miss S 
was in a position to make her loan repayments sustainably. As far as I could see Sunny 
didnt do this. So I needed to think about what Sunny wouldve seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
If Sunny had carried out proportionate checks before Loan 7, it would have seen, as I had 
seen from Miss Ss bank statements for the month before Loan 7, that Miss Ss net monthly 
income was rather less than shed declared. It was only around £642 and shed also 
received child benefit of around £83. In addition Sunny would have seen that Miss S was 
spending a significant proportion of her income on gambling. I thought it would have been 
clear to Sunny that it was unlikely that Miss S would have been able to repay any new 
borrowing in a sustainable manner. So I didnt think Sunny should have given Loan 7 to Miss 
S.Loans 5 and 6 had been repaid when Miss S borrowed Loan 8 around two weeks after shed 
repaid those loans. Loan 7 was still outstanding. The amount of Loan 8 of £300 was the 
highest amount Miss S had borrowed from Sunny and it was her fifth loan in around five 
months. So again I thought by that time that Sunny might have been concerned that Miss S 
was struggling to manage her finances.
So again I didnt think it was reasonable for Sunny to base its assessment before Loan 8 on 
the information provided by Miss S without taking steps to independently check what shed 
declared. I again thought it might have been proportionate at that time for Sunny to have 
independently reviewed the true state of Miss Ss finances. As far as I could see Sunny 
didnt do this. So I needed to think about what Sunny wouldve seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
If Sunny had carried out proportionate checks before Loan 8, it would have seen, as I had 
seen from Miss Ss bank statements for the month before Loan 8, that Miss Ss net monthly 
income was still only around £642 and she also still received child benefit of around £83. In 
addition Sunny would have seen that Miss S was still spending a significant proportion of her 
income on gambling. Again I thought it would have been clear to Sunny that it was unlikely 
that Miss S would be able to repay any new borrowing in a sustainable manner. So I didnt 
think Sunny should have given Loan 8 to Miss S.
Id looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending with Miss S to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ss case, I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 9. I said this because:
Loan 9 was taken out just two days after Loan 8 was repaid and Loan 8 was repaid 
early, almost two weeks after being taken out. I thought that behaviour might have 
indicated that Miss S was facing financial problems.
Loan 9 was Miss Ss sixth loan in just less than six months with only a gap of three 
days when she didnt have a loan from Sunny.  Each of those loans had been 
repayable over a period of six months. But Miss S always repaid her loans off far 
earlier than planned. By Loan 9 I thought the pattern of almost constant and frequent 
borrowing and repaying early should have indicated to Sunny that Miss S was most 
likely having significant problems managing her money.
Miss S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over 
an extended period.
Sunny ought to have realised that Miss S wasnt likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
 
I thought that Miss S lost out because the number of loans was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for 
these high-cost loans. And the fact that all of the loans were repaid didnt mean that they 
were repaid sustainably, or without causing Miss S undue difficulty. 
Id noted Sunnys comments about the fact that Miss S repaid the loans early, used a small 
percentage of her monthly income to make the repayments and appeared to have sufficient 
disposable income. But these didnt show that the repayments were sustainable. 
And when a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most 
likely that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash flow problems. As Sunny would know, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter to CEOs of high 
cost lending firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic of unsustainable 
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
Subject to any further representations by Miss S or Sunny my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part and say that Sunny should put things right as 
follows.
putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
Refund all interest and charges Miss S paid on Loans 7 to 11 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
Remove all adverse entries about Loans 7 and 8 from Miss Ss credit file; and
Remove all entries about Loans 9 to 11 from Miss Ss credit file. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Miss S responded to say that she was happy with my provisional decision.
Sunny hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Miss S and Sunny have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint in part and Sunny should take the steps set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges Miss S paid on Loans 7 to 11 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
2. Remove all adverse entries about Loans 7 and 8 from Miss Ss credit file; and
3. Remove all entries about Loans 9 to 11 from Miss Ss credit file. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Roslyn RawsonOmbudsman