DRN-4003050
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) recorded a default on his credit file 
for an account he believed was closed. 
What happened
Mr J held a bank account with Barclays which he stopped using around the start of 2019. 
When he stopped actively using the account his statements show an overdrawn balance of 
around £93. Although Mr J wasnt using his account fees for the accounts rewards program 
continued to debit the account increasing Mr Js overdrawn balance.
Mr J says he requested the account to be closed in October 2019. At that time Mr Js 
statements show his account was £41.80 in debit.
Barclays say it wrote to Mr J on a number of occasions in 2020 regarding the outstanding 
balance of the account but had no response. Barclays internal records show it called Mr J in 
October 2020 to discuss this but as Mr J couldnt talk it asked him to call it back. 
Mr J didnt call back and a termination notice for the account was sent to Mr J on 3 
November 2020 giving him until 3 December 2020 to settle the account balance of £89.80. 
The termination notice explained that Barclays may sell his debt to a third party as well as 
registering details of the account with credit reference agencies.
As the balance wasnt settled and remained outstanding Barclays closed the account on 4 
December, defaulted the account and sold the debt to a third party.
On 16 April 2021 Barclays sent Mr J a letter regarding a rewards refund amounting to £71.34 
he was due on the account. Mr J responded to this by providing Barclays with his account 
details for an account not held with Barclays. 
In October 2021 a debt recovery agent contacted Mr J regarding the outstanding overdraft 
debt and Mr J complained to Barclays about this as he believed his account had closed. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Js complaint so he brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Mr J fairly and so didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. 
Mr J disagreed, he says its because Barclays failed to action the closure of his account that 
direct debits failed and charges were added to it which resulted in the account going into 
unarranged overdraft. He would like the default and debt to be removed from his credit file.
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr J has experienced and see if Barclays has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr J back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr J is unhappy that Barclays failed to close his account when he says he requested this in 
October 2019 and that it was Barclays failure to do this that caused the overdrawn balance.
But Ive seen nothing to show me that this request was ever made and Mr Js statements 
show that his account was overdrawn in early 2019 for around £93 and that in October it was 
still overdrawn when Mr J says he put the request in to close his account. So I cant say that 
it was any error on Barclays side that Mr Js account wasnt closed or that it was its failure to 
close the account that caused his account to become overdrawn. 
Mr J says it was unfair for Barclays to register a default on his credit file when he believed 
his account was closed. So the question I have to ask is whether Barclays did anything 
wrong in defaulting Mr Js account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in 
particular, closing his account and registering a default when he didnt pay back the 
outstanding balance of his overdrawn account in the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly 
when it closed Mr Js account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I can see 
that Barclays had tried to contact Mr J by both letter and phone regarding the arrears on the 
account and had no response or engagement from Mr J. So it issued the termination notice 
explaining what would happen if the account wasnt settled by 3 December 2020 and as the 
account wasnt settled it closed the account, registered a default and sold the debt to a debt 
collection agent. 
And I dont think it makes a difference to the registering of the default whether Mr J believed 
the account was closed or not. The outstanding balance on his account was a debt due to 
Barclays and it was entitled to collect this. Mr J had been notified of the arrears on more than 
one occasion and took no action and as a result a default was recorded on Mr Js credit file. 
Barclays has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate and this is an accurate 
reflection about what happened.
 So overall and having considered everything I dont think Barclays treated Mr J unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman