DRN-3637686
Complaint
Miss P complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) unfairly led her to believe it had 
recorded a fraud prevention marker against her and she needed to pay an outstanding debt.
Background
In December 2021, HSBC wrote to Miss P to let her know that it was closing her account 
with immediate effect. The letter directed Miss P where to go if she wanted to know why her 
account had been closed. Miss P subsequently got in contact with HSBC as she was under 
the impression that it had recorded a fraud marker against her, on an account that had been 
dormant for some time. There was a further call where Miss P was left with the impression 
that if she repaid an amount owing, as a result of an outstanding balance on an unarranged 
overdraft, HSBC would remove the fraud marker.  
However, Miss P was unhappy and complained as she disputed the amount owed and was 
told to go to a branch to repay the outstanding amount. HSBC didnt uphold Miss Ps 
complaint. As Miss P remained dissatisfied, Miss P referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ps concerns. He didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, while I appreciate that there may have been some confusion, 
overall I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards Miss P and so Im not upholding her 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Miss P, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And after HSBC decided it no longer 
wished to have Miss P as a customer it wrote to her to let her know that. Its also worth 
noting that closing a customers account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to 
take. And it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision.
Nonetheless, Miss P was directed to the database for fraud markers for more information on 
why her account was closed. And Miss P is now aware that her account was closed because 
HSBC saw a fraud marker another financial institution had recorded against her. Its also my 
understanding that Miss P is aware of this marker, the reasons for it as well as the financial 
institution responsible for recording it. Miss P says that HSBC led her to believe that it had 
recorded the fraud marker and that this would be removed if she made a payment in branch.
I can to some extent understand why Miss P may have formed that impression. 
Nonetheless, its clear that HSBC didnt record the fraud prevention marker. And while       
Miss P may have forgotten about this account, Im satisfied that a balance of £64.84 remains 
owing on her account after the last transaction was a £70.44 payment for petrol. 
I know that Miss P says that she didnt receive any statements and its possible this is the 
case. But Ive seen copies of letters sent to her, in the weeks after the transaction, 
confirming that she has an overdrawn balance on the account. Furthermore, this overdrawn 
balance occurred because Miss P used her card to make a purchase which she didnt have 
the funds to cover. And its possible that the subsequent lack of use of the account isnt 
unconnected to this. In any event, HSBC hasnt added any interest, fees or charges to this 
amount so I dont think that Miss P failing to receive statements here has made a difference 
 especially as HSBC didnt take steps to record a default, or anything like that.  
I think that its also worth me explaining that the reason why Miss P has been asked to repay 
the outstanding balance in branch is because Miss Ps security number for online and 
telephone banking wasnt properly set up. That is the reason why HSBC is unable to accept 
payment by another method at this stage. I understand why Miss P may feel disappointed. 
She thought HSBC would be removing a fraud marker and she may have believed she 
would no longer have to pay this outstanding amount. And I can also understand why Miss P 
would have found it frustrating to believe that HSBC had recorded a fraud marker. 
However, the fact remains that Miss P did have a fraud marker recorded against her and as 
a result of HSBC closing her account she was directed to the correct place to go to find out 
more about this. Furthermore, Miss P has been alerted to amount shes owed HSBC since         
February 2019. So while I accept that there may have been some confusion, in the 
telephone calls and correspondence, I dont think that Miss P has lost out as a result and 
that shes essentially in the same position notwithstanding this. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards 
Miss P and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Miss P. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her 
concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman