DRN-1418852
The complaint
Mr R complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited is responsible for 
mishandling his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R lived in a rural area and relied on his car. For the year from 25 June 2018, he had an 
LV policy at a premium of about £458.00. In July 2018 Mr Rs car was involved in an 
incident.
On Friday 31 May 2019, LV emailed Mr R a renewal letter quoting a premium of £1,213.99. 
When Mr R called LV to challenge this, LV said there was an open claim. But LV agreed to 
close the claim and update its records as incident only. LV quoted a revised renewal 
premium of about £338.00. 
On Wednesday 5 June 2019, Mr R complained to LV that hed received documents in the 
post quoting the higher figure of £1,213.99. 
In a final response letter dated 10 June 2019, LV acknowledged that during the call on 31 
May 2019 it hadnt warned Mr R that it had been too late to stop the incorrect documents 
being sent out. LV offered £25.00 compensation.
Unhappy with that, Mr R brought his complaint to us on 17 June 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that  
whilst it had made the error of issuing incorrect documentation - LV had acted fairly and 
reasonably in response to its error. She said that LV had no way of retrieving the document 
generated.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
LV shouldve noticed that after many months the claim had made no progress.
LV shouldve updated him.
LV shouldve found a way to retrieve the incorrect document. 
LV didnt take these ordinary steps because there was £900.00 to be made by not 
taking them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV had opened a claim in July 2018. In many cases, it would be clear within a matter of days 
whether there was a claim from a third party. 
But the legal time limits for court proceedings are measured in years. So insurers sometimes 
keep claims open for years. And if a claim is open at an annual renewal then it is likely to 
result in the quotation of an increased premium.
LV complied with the requirement for its renewal letter to state the previous years premium 
as well as the proposed new premium. So Mr R saw at a glance that LV was proposing that 
the premium should be more than doubled.
On the same day - 31 May 2019  LV agreed to close the claim. Neither Mr R nor LV has 
provided enough detail to show that LV shouldve closed the claim earlier. 
LV reduced the premium to about £338.00. I agree that LV made an error in failing to warn 
Mr R on 31 May 2019 that he would receive in the post the renewal documents with the 
higher premium.  
I accept that it was too late to stop the posting of the renewal documents with the higher 
premium. So I dont consider that LV made an error in that respect.
I consider that  when he received the documents on about 5 June 2019 - Mr R ought 
reasonably to have realised that they had been superseded. And LV confirmed that it would 
only charge the lower premium.
So I dont find that LV unfairly caused Mr R any financial loss or distress and inconvenience 
at a level that called for monetary compensation. But I find it fair and reasonable to direct LV 
to honour its offer of £25.00 if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr R £25.00 for distress and inconvenience insofar as it hasnt 
already done so. I dont direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited do any more in 
response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman