DRN-4007992
The complaint
A company Ill call R complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked and closed its account 
without notice and without explaining why. It said it was left without banking services for 2 
months as a result, which caused it to suffer serious harm. To put things right, R wants 
Metro to pay compensation of around £67,000.
R is represented by its director, Mr C.
What happened
Our investigator has set out the background to this complaint in detail, so Ive summarised
the key points below as the facts are well known to both parties.
Mr C says Rs account was blocked on 29 September 2020, meaning that he couldnt make 
payments from his account. He said he called his relationship manager (RM) to ask what 
was going on, but his RM said he didnt know. Although Mr C believes that not to be true and 
says it was the RM who initiated the block.
The block continued for two months and Metro issued R with a 7 day notice to close its 
account on 19 November 2020, although Mr C says he only found out about that on 27 
November 2020, and that he was told it was dated 23 November 2020. He says he was 
advised to visit his local branch after the account had been closed, and to take identification 
as well as confirmation of where the account balance should be sent.
Mr C says he spent 7 hours at his local branch on the day he went to collect his funds. He 
says he presented an account for Rs parent company, but that Metro would only send the 
money to R itself. So, he went to Rs new bank and was able to obtain a statement for R, 
which he presented to Metro. Metro then took further time to approve the transfer, which was 
eventually completed at the end of the day, although a small balance of £115.24 remained 
on the account.
Mr S claimed compensation of £67,282, but said he would accept £30,000. He set out 
details of his claim for compensation in a letter to Metro. Among other items, Mr C claimed 
for discrimination because he felt Metros decision had something to do with the fact that R 
had a Chinese non-executive director, for distress experienced by Rs staff, for bad debts 
caused by Metros actions and various other damages he claimed were caused by Metro.
Metro issued its final response to Rs complaint on 22 December 2020. It said it was entitled 
to block and close Rs account, but it accepted the block was in place for longer than it 
should have been. It offered to write to Rs clients explaining the banking issues shouldnt 
reflect poorly against R, and it offered to pay £800 in compensation, representing £100 for 
each week the block was delayed.
Mr C didnt accept Metros offer. He wanted to know why Metro had blocked the account in 
the first place, and he wanted Metro to pay between £30,000 and £67,000 in compensation. 
He also wanted Metro to be fined for malpractice, and to change their ways so this sort of 
thing doesnt happen again.
Our investigator upheld Rs complaint, but she didnt award the compensation Mr C asked 
for. She asked Mr C to provide evidence to support Rs losses, but he wasnt able to do so. 
So, she awarded interest on the account balance at a rate of 8% from the day Metro 
accepted it should have released the funds, to the day the funds were paid out. She also told 
Metro to release the account balance of £115.24, together with interest at a rate of 8% from 
6 October until settlement.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators findings, so he asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
matter afresh. Our investigator asked if he had any further points or information for the 
Ombudsman to consider, but Mr C said he did not. Although he did say he wanted any 
compensation to be offset again his Bouncebank Loan debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2023. In it, I said:
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review.
So, in order to make an award in favour of R, I would need to be satisfied that Metro acted 
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied 
Metro acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Rs account. And 
that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that governed the 
relationship between Metro and R.
I appreciate Mr C is frustrated that Metro didnt explained its reasons in full, that he thinks he 
was lied to, and that he feels strongly about Rs complaint. But, under the terms and 
conditions of the account, Metro doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. So, I cant say it 
did anything wrong by not giving R this information when it complained. And, having 
investigated Metros rationale myself, Im satisfied it was entitled to block the account and 
complete the investigation in the manner it did. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it 
treated R unfairly.
With that being said, our service would expect a bank to complete its review promptly and 
without undue delay. And Metro has already accepted that it should have acted more quickly 
and its compensation was paid on the basis that it accepted it caused an 8-week delay. So, 
Ill address the compensation it should pay below.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account.
The terms and conditions of Rs account  with which both Metro and R had to comply  say 
that Metro could close the account without notice in certain circumstances. 
While I cant disclose the reasons for Metros decision to R, I can say that Ive considered the evidence Ive been provided, and Im satisfied Metro acted in accordance with its terms 
and conditions when it closed Rs account. It gave R 7 days notice of the closure, and I 
accept it wasnt obliged to give more notice. Indeed, its terms of business would have 
allowed immediate closure in these circumstances. So, although I understand that the lack of 
notice would have caused R inconvenience, I wont tell Metro to compensate R for that 
inconvenience, because it did nothing wrong in closing Rs account.
Mr C has said he received the notice letter after it expired, so Ive looked at whether Metro 
should have to compensate R for the delay in postage. Metro has provided our service with 
evidence that shows the letter was dispatched on 19 November 2020, and Mr C has 
confirmed he did receive the letter, albeit late.
While I understand the frustration and inconvenience Mr C experienced as a result of 
receiving a notice to close Rs account a week late, Ive seen evidence that persuades me 
Metro dispatched the letter when it said it did. And I dont hold it responsible for any delays in 
posting after it dispatched the letter. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied 
Metro was entitled to close Rs account without notice, so even though I accept Mr C 
received the letter after it had expired, I wont ask Metro to do anything further to put matters 
right for R.
Compensation
Because of what Ive said above about Metros delays, Ive looked at the losses Mr C has 
claimed. I should start by setting out the basis upon which I can award compensation. This 
complaint has been brought to our service by R, which is a limited company and therefore a 
separate entity to its directors and its staff. And Metros relationship is with R, so I cant 
award compensation for distress experienced by Rs directors or staff. And of course, a 
limited company cant feel distress.
Further, its not our services role to fine banks and its not within our remit to tell them how to 
operate, so I cant tell Metro to change the way it does business with future customers, and 
my focus is solely on the impact to R. I can make an award for any consequential losses I 
consider Mr C has evidenced, and I can make an award for inconvenience experienced by 
R, or damage suffered to its reputation.
For example, as a result of R not being able to pay its staff in the usual manner. What this 
means is that, while I can and will award R compensation, I cant make an award for much of 
the compensation Mr C has claimed. For example, hes claimed for emotional distress he 
experienced, the impact on Rs staff and various other items that amount to distress 
experienced by a party other than R. And Mr C has claimed compensation because he feels 
Metros actions were motivated by discrimination against one of Rs non-executive directors, 
and he feels Metros actions were motivated by a view that R was seen as a difficult 
customer.
But Ive seen why Metro took the actions it did, and Im satisfied it had nothing to do with the 
background of Rs staff or directors, or Metros perception of Rs day to day conduct, 
whether related to its applications for finance, or other matters.
Mr C has also claimed loss of profits and that R missed out on payments for services 
rendered. But he wasnt able to provide evidence to support those claims. And I cant 
reasonably tell Metro to compensate R for consequential losses that it cant support with 
evidence.
The rest of Mr Cs claims amount to inconvenience experienced by R. And while I dont 
doubt this had a significant impact on R, the compensation Mr C has claimed is significantly above the levels our service would usually award in these circumstances.
Further, much of the inconvenience experienced (such as Mr Cs attendance at branch after 
the account was closed) was caused by the short notice closure. And, as Ive said above, 
Metro wasnt obliged to give R greater notice, and I dont hold it responsible for the delay in 
Mr C receiving the notice letter. So, I wont award any compensation in respect of 
inconvenience caused by the lack of notice.
With that being said, I accept that R not having access to its bank account would have 
caused it inconvenience, and that not being able to pay staff or suppliers, or receive 
payments in would have impacted Rs reputation. I accept the delay caused R significant 
inconvenience and that the impact continued for 8 weeks, a not inconsiderable length of time 
in the circumstances. I say 8 weeks because it was reasonable for Metro to spend some 
time reviewing the account, and based on the information its provided I take the view that the 
first week wasnt a delay and was legitimate time taken to investigate.
Had Metro not made an offer, I would have told it to pay compensation. But having weighed 
Mr Cs testimony, and in light of what Ive said above, Im satisfied that Metro has done 
enough by offering to write a letter explaining Metro caused the delay, and by offering to pay 
£800 in compensation.
However, while Im satisfied Metros offer fairly compensates R for the inconvenience it 
experienced, I dont think its compensated R sufficiently in relation to the fact that R was 
deprived of £67,000 for 8 weeks. Although R hasnt been able to provide evidence to 
demonstrate what losses it incurred because of this, I can see from the account statements 
that R used the account funds day to day before the block. And I accept Mr Cs testimony 
that this interrupted Rs business. So, to compensate R for this, Metro should pay interest on 
the account balance at a rate of 8%. That interest should be calculated from 6 October 2020 
to 1 December 2020. 
Finally, it should pay the remaining account balance of £115.24 to R, along with interest on 
that amount at a rate of 8% from 6 October 2020 until the date of settlement. Mr C has 
asked that any compensation awarded be paid against Rs Bounceback Loan. My directions 
in this decision are simply that Metro must pay R the above compensation. But Mr C can ask 
our investigator to make those arrangements with Metro after I issue my final decision
Both parties accepted my provisional findings, so my final decision remains unchanged.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay R:
£800 in recognition of the inconvenience and damage to reputation it caused R;
Simple interest on the account balance of £67,654.09 at a rate of 8% from 6 October 
2020 to 1 December 2020;
£115.24; and
Simple interest at a rate of 8% on £115.24 from 6 October 2020 until date of 
settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman