DRN-3396807
The complaint
Mr S complains about Options UK Personal Pensions LLP, (and trading as Carey 
Pensions UK LLP [Carey] at the time of the relevant events) accepting an application for 
a Self- Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), and an investment in Store First, from an 
unregulated business called Commercial Land and Property Brokers (CL&P). For 
simplicity, I have referred to Options UK Personal Pensions LLP as Carey throughout 
this decision. 
Mr Ss representative says that Carey showed no consideration for FSA Principles of 
business  and did not treat him fairly. Mr Ss representative says Carey had a duty to 
carry out due diligence on CL&P before accepting business from it and, had it done so, it 
ought to have been aware of various reasons not to deal with CL&P.
It says the Store First investment was unregulated, high risk, highly speculative 
and unsuitable for Mr S.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 25 February 2022. In that decision I set out why I believed 
the complaint should be upheld. I have included the content of the provisional decision in 
italics below and the provisional decision should be read in conjunction with, and forms part 
of, this final decision. Although Carey is now Options, I will refer to Carey throughout. 
Provisional decision of 25 February 2022:
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Careys acceptance of a SIPP 
application and Store First investment application from CL&P in February 2021. That final 
decision has been published on our website under DRN5472159. I have reached my 
decision in this case independently. The published decision however sets out the general 
detail of Careys relationship with, and due diligence on, CL&P and the general detail of 
Store First and Careys due diligence on that investment, across pages 2 to 11 (up to Mr 
Ss dealings with CL&P and Carey). So I will rely on that detail set out in the published 
decision here, rather than repeat it  I will only include the key factual background of this 
particular complaint here.
Mr Ss dealings with CL&P and Carey
Mr Ss representative says Mr S was contacted by CL&P and encouraged to invest in 
Store First after first transferring his pension to a SIPP with Carey.
Before being contacted by CL&P, Mr S had an existing personal pension. Following the 
contact by CL&P the cash value of this pension was transferred into a SIPP with Carey, 
and the majority of the money invested in Store First. My understanding is that the 
following key events took place during Mr Ss dealings with Carey:
Mr S signs a Carey SIPP application form  5 January 2012.
Carey sends its welcome letter, confirming the establishment date of the 
SIPP  11 January 2012.
Mr S signs Careys member declaration and indemnity in respect of Storefirst 
(referred to as the indemnity in the published decision, using the wording 
quoted in full there)  6 April 2012.
Carey sends cash from Mr Ss SIPP to Store First  April 2012.
If I am incorrect about any of these matters then Carey should let me know in response 
to this provisional decision.
CL&P and Carey
The below is a chronological summary (set out in greater detail in the published decision) 
of the key events during the relationship between CL&P and Carey.
15 August 2011 - Carey begins to accept introductions from CL&P.
20 September 2011 - Carey conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which 
allows subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on a 
Zoe Adams and a Mark Lloyd. Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd were two of the people at CL&P 
Carey initially had contact with. This check did not reveal any issues.
27 September 2011 - Carey asked CL&P to complete a non-regulated introducer profile.
29 September 2011 - The non-regulated introducer profile was completed by CL&P. 
It was completed and signed by Terence Wright.
9 December 2011- Carey had a conference call with representatives of CL&P. During 
that call the issue was raised of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P to 
transfer or switch to a SIPP and make investments. The note of the call included the 
following:
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member had asked when 
they would receive their money from their Store First Investment, [CL&P representatives] 
confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive any form of 
inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include offering inducements. [Carey staff member] emphasised 
that it is completely against all rules that clients or connected parties receive any form of 
inducement for making particular investments.
13 March 2012 - Careys Head of Service and Operation, said in an email to CL&P:
On another matter, we need our Terms of Business for Non Regulated introducers in 
place between our two companies. So that our records are all straight from a Compliance 
aspect I attach the Terms of Business and have entered a commencement date of 15 
August 2011 which is the date of your first case with us and would be grateful if you could 
agree and complete the terms and return.
The agreement was signed by CL&P on 20 March 2012. It was signed by Ms 
Adams. 23 March 2012 - Careys compliance support said in an email to CL&P:
To comply with our in house compliance procedures could you please supply the 
following information relating to CLP Brokers:
A copy of the latest set of accounts
A certified copy passport for each of the main directors/principals/partners of the company
29 March 2012 - a Team Leader at Carey sent an email to Ms Hallett, Careys Chief 
Executive, with the subject  03-29-2012 - Storefirst Investment Query re Cash Back 
[reference removed]. That email forwarded an email sent by the Team Leader to a 
consumer, which included the following:
you mentioned in our conversation a cash back amount you are expecting in the sum of
£1,800 from CL&P following completion of the Storefirst investmentAnd the text addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader said, this is the second 
member this week to ask when are they getting their money.
3 April 2012 - Careys compliance support followed up on its 23 March 2012 email:
It is now becoming urgent that we receive the outstanding documentation. You very 
kindly passed this on to your colleague and I would be very grateful if we could 
receive the documentation as a matter of urgency Thank you in anticipation of your 
assistance.
When asked, Carey said it has no record of receiving the information from CL&P.
15 May 2012 - Carey conducted a World Check on Terence Wright. The report 
highlighted that he appeared on the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals.
25 May 2012 - Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P. Careys Head of Service 
and Operation told CL&P of Careys decision in an email to CL&P of that date:
Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered inducements 
(monetary or otherwise) for making investments through their SIPPs with us, we have 
received enquiries as to when client can expect to receive their money and have today 
been informed by a new client that they are expecting circa £2,000 on completion of the 
Storefirst investment purchase, which they confirmed was offered by a member of your 
staff.
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case.
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating our 
Introducer Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer accept 
business from you.
In reply to this email CL&P asked, Regarding business which you have already 
accepted from us, will you still be processing this as the client's SIPPs have already 
been established?
28 May 2012 - Careys Ms Hallett sent the following reply to CL&P:
We will process them where we have already established the schemes, we will be 
writing to all clients informing them if they have received any monies then they must 
declare this to HMRC and their fund would also be vulnerable to a tax charge as well.
HMRC have already asked a number of SIPP providers for lists of clients who are 
investing in alternatives, they will I am sure be doing some random checks and will 
charge people for unauthorised transactions if they have received cash sums for 
transferring their pension and making investments.
I would urge you and your agents to review your position if you are continuing this as 
part of your sales process, ultimately no SIPP providers will be taking the business, it is 
not allowable as we have explained to you previously.
Submissions made by Mr S
We asked Mr S if he could provide answers to the following questions:
Were you interested in changing your pension at the time of being 
contacted by Corporate & Professional Pensions? Why?
What attracted you to Corporate & Professional Pensions? And what attracted 
you to the investment?
What role did you think Corporate & Professional Pensions had in this transaction?
Did Corporate & Professional Pensions recommend any products to you? Can you recall what it said to you?
What is your understanding of how the investment works?
What did you think Carey/Options role was at the time?
Your SIPP was set up in January 2012 and your investment was made in April 
2012. Were you aware that you were still free to choose whether or not to invest 
in Store First after the SIPP had been set up?
As part of the application process you were asked to sign a member 
declaration document which stated that you were aware the investment 
was high risk and / or speculative.
Did you understand the risks associated with a high risk, speculative 
investment? What are they in your own words?
What was your understanding of the risks associated with the investment? 
Please explain your answer fully.
Mr S replied with the following comments:
"No I wasnt interested, but they offered a better rate than I was currently getting.
I was told at the time that a sipp was the best way forward to get better growth 
on my investment.
They was the ones that made contact with me and did the contact work going 
forward. All that was recommended was a sipp.
I was told I would get an 8% return on my investment, and that was better than 
what I was getting at the time.
Didnt know about Carey until I was told they would manage my sipp.
I was not aware or understood really what was going on , they made everything sound 
easy , I was told that my money was being invested in property, I would become an 
owner of store first pods , I would not lose any money as I always would own them , I 
would receive a rent each month as it was the next best thing since sliced bread , and 
carey would manage my investment, just taking a small charge, I received a statement a 
while into the investment and I realised that they hadnt invested all my transferred 
pension, only two thirds of it and was draining the rest in charges , I never saw any 
income from store first, to my knowledge I was never asked to sign any declaration 
document, and yes I understand that there are risks to anything, but I was never told 
anything about high risk I would not have done it, 8% return doesnt sound high risk, 
double your money every year, thats high risk, I never thought that ten years down the 
road I would be trying to find my personal pension, I have not heard anything from 
Careys in years, which I do find strange especially when you are looking after 
someones future."
Submissions made by Carey
The submissions made by Carey in this complaint are essentially the same 
as those summarised in the published decision.The summary in the published decision also includes general submissions about 
Careys relationship with CL&P. So I will rely here on the summary given in the 
published decision under Careys submissions rather than repeat the detail.
The investigators view
The FCAs Principles for Businesses and the regulatory publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve 
the outcomes envisaged by the Principles were relevant considerations here.
Carey carried out significant due diligence, but it took a piecemeal approach, 
and in the meantime accepted business from CL&P. Had it carried out all its 
due diligence at the outset, it ought to have concluded it should not accept 
business from CL&P at all.
Carey should have conducted background checks on the directors of CL&P at 
the outset, rather than on two members of CL&Ps staff. Had Carey checked 
the directors at the outset it would have discovered that Terence Wright was 
subject to a warning on the FSAs website.
Had Carey completed the relevant checks before accepting business from 
CL&P it ought to have concluded that it shouldnt enter into a relationship 
with it.
It is not clear why Carey did not ask for accounts and identification documents 
at the outset, but only did this after the relationship had been ongoing for a 
number of months. The fact that CL&P failed to provide this information, 
despite reminders, was cause for concern. Had Carey asked at the outset and 
CL&P had failed to provide them, it should not have entered into a relationship 
with CL&P.
Carey accepted Mr Ss referral in January 2012 but it wasnt until March 2012 
that Carey asked CL&P to complete a non-regulator introducer agreement. 
So, Carey accepted Mr S's business from an unregulated introducer without 
fully understanding the service that this introducer was providing. Carey 
should also have been concerned that this introducer agreement hadnt been 
signed by the Directors of CL&P.
Carey was concerned CL&P was offering cash back incentives to consumers 
in December 2011. But it accepted Mr Cs referral in January 2012. Carey had 
been aware that incentives were being offered by CL&P before it passed Mr 
Ss money for investment. This ought to have raised serious questions about 
the conduct of CL&P and the quality of the business it was bringing about. If 
CL&P was offering consumers incentives that called into question its integrity.
Carey put some reliance on the indemnity signed by Mr S. But it should 
not have accepted his application at all, so should not have required him 
to sign any documents. And asking Mr S to sign the indemnity did not 
mean it was fair and reasonable to proceed with Mr Ss investment 
instructions.
Careys response to the investigators view
Carey did not accept the investigators assessment. In summary:
In assessing the complaint, we must take into account the overarching context 
of the relationship that Carey has with its customers, including Mr S, being one 
of a self- invested personal pension scheme in which Carey acts on a strictly 
execution only/non-advised basis and is member-directed throughout. Carey is 
not permitted to, and does not, provide advice or otherwise comment on the suitability of investments or any other aspect of a customers SIPP. Carey 
expressly states that all customers should seek independent financial advice 
from an adviser who is regulated by the FCA.
Carey questioned the relevance of the regulatory publications issued after 
2009, that the investigator referred to in her assessment. Carey believed the 
FCA's expectation of the SIPP sector had changed substantially over time. It 
submitted that the FCA now had higher expectations of conduct in the SIPP 
sector than it did in 2009. And the FCA publications are not rule making 
guidance.
Some of the actions which the investigator discusses and which are the 
subject of the complaint occurred before Carey was involved. It requests an 
explanation as to why it is liable for those actions. It is not the sole cause (or 
a cause at all) of Mr Ss loss.
The investigator did not set out what specific regulation or legal basis she 
had applied to say that Carey was liable. The investigator should set out 
duty of care Carey owed to Mr S.
Carey believed that had it not followed Mr S's instructions or refused to 
process his application in the circumstances where it had been aware that Mr 
Wright was on the FCA's warning list, or for any other reason, then in all 
likelihood Mr S would have simply proceeded to make the same investment 
via a different SIPP provider and suffered the same loss.
Carey does not agree that its Terms of Business in relation to CL&P 
have any bearing on the outcome of the complaint.
Carey felt that the Member Declaration had been disregarded, which formed a 
central part of the legally binding contract between the parties. Carey carried 
out due diligence on Store First and provided Mr S with a Member Declaration 
which reaffirmed his investment instructions and provided him with risk 
warnings about his chosen investment to enable him to make an informed 
decision on whether to proceed. It was Mr Ss decision to proceed on an 
execution only basis and it made this clear to him. Mr S confirmed that he had 
read and understood all the documentation he had been given and this should 
be taken into account.
Carey was not of the opinion that the award of £500 for the trouble and 
upset Mr S had been caused was fair and reasonable.
The investigator responded to Options submissions. In summary she said:
Her view that the complaint should be upheld remained the same.
She considered that the FSA/FCA reports she had referred to in her 
assessment didnt introduce new standards but were a reminder to firms that 
they were expected to meet the Principles. She didnt agree that she was 
holding Carey to a higher standard than applied at the time.
She remained of the view that Carey shouldnt have accepted Mr Ss 
application and so he would not otherwise have undertaken the transfer or 
made the investment. It was fair to compensate him on this basis.
She had not ignored the Member Declaration. Mr S should never have got to 
the point of completing the declaration because Carey should not have 
accepted his application in the first place  given what it knew or should have 
known about CL&P.
She confirmed that the compensation she had suggested was fair and included the upset and distress Mr S would have been caused.
Carey was informed that if it didnt agree with the investigators assessment the 
complaint would be referred to an ombudsman.
Carey then provided a further submission. It said it couldnt provide a full response 
because in its view the investigator had not addressed its points adequately. This was 
particularly in respect of the FCAs Notice on Terence Wright and why Mr S was not 
being held responsible for any of the loss he had suffered.
After the published decision was issued, Carey was asked to take it into consideration, 
as an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) DISP Rules and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 
1.3.2A), which should be taken into account when assessing other similar complaints.
On this basis, Carey was asked to review outstanding complaints involving CL&P and 
Store First  including Mr Ss - and if it was not prepared to make a settlement offer 
taking account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why it 
was distinguishing it from the published decision. Carey declined to carry out this review 
at this time. Mr Ss complaint has therefore been passed to me for review and Im 
satisfied that there is no need to wait any further before progressing this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time. Having done so, I have reached the same 
view in this complaint as that set out in the published decision.
In short, although there are some factual differences between this complaint and the 
one which was subject to the published decision, I am satisfied the outcome detailed 
in the published decision is the fair and reasonable one to reach in this case, for the 
reasons set out in the published decision.
In my view the relevant considerations in this complaint set out in the published 
decision apply here  so I will refer to the published decision rather than repeat those 
considerations here.
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of 
Adams v Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment 
in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474.
I am of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles 
apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I do not say this 
means Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken 
account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Ss case.
I acknowledge that COBS2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) was considered by HHJ Dight in the High 
Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of 
FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP 
had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was 
radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of 
Mr Adams appeal did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ 
Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an 
entirely new case.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R 
alleged by Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Ss complaint. The breaches were 
summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ 
Dight noted, he was not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options 
SIPP agreed to accept the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case 
were also different.
I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference 
to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in 
doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint, which concerns 
whether Carey should have accepted Mr Ss application at all, and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal 
pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Carey was not obliged  and not 
able  to give advice to Mr S on the suitability of its SIPP or the Store First investment 
for him personally. But I am satisfied Careys obligations included deciding whether to 
accept a particular investment into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of 
business from particular businesses. As the published decision sets out, this is 
consistent with Careys own understanding of its obligations at the relevant time.
I acknowledge Carey has applied to the Supreme Court for permission to appeal the 
Court of Appeal judgment and the outcome of that application is awaited. However, the 
grounds of appeal are in respect of issues not directly relevant to my determination of this 
case and therefore it is unnecessary to await either the consideration of the application 
or, if permission is granted, the Supreme Court judgment. I am satisfied it is appropriate 
to determine this complaint now.
Having carefully considered the relevant considerations I am satisfied that, in order to 
meet the appropriate standards of good industry practice and the obligations set by the 
regulators rules and regulations, Carey should have carried out due diligence on CL&P 
to the sort of standard which was consistent with good industry practice and its 
regulatory obligations at the time and carried out due diligence on the Store First 
investment which was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory 
obligations at the time. And Carey should have used the knowledge it gained from that 
due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of business or a particular 
investment.
I am also satisfied that, as in the complaint subject to the published decision, the contract 
between Carey and Mr S does not mean that Carey should not be held responsible for 
failing to comply with its regulatory obligations to carry out adequate due diligence on 
CL&P and the Store First investment which ultimately led to Mr S losing a significant part 
of his pension.In this complaint, like the complaint subject to the published decision, Carey had 
obtained information many months before it facilitated Mr Ss investment which led it later 
to reject any further referrals from CL&P and had concerns about the Store First 
investment before it facilitated Mr Ss investment. So in this complaint, like the complaint 
subject to the published decision, it would not be fair and reasonable to say the contract 
meant Carey could ignore all red flags and proceed with Mr Ss business regardless.
In my view, like the complaint subject to the published decision, had Carey done what it 
ought to have done here, and drawn reasonable conclusions from what it knew or ought 
to have known, it should not have accepted either the application for Mr Ss SIPP from 
CL&P or the Store First investment.
Due diligence on CL&P
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have 
been privy to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P. Mr Ss application was 
accepted on 11 January 2012. As the published decision sets out, it is fair and 
reasonable to say by that time Carey ought to have known that CL&Ps director was Mr 
Terence Wright, and that he was on the FSAs Firms and individuals to avoid list, which 
was described on the website as a warning list of some unauthorised firms and 
individuals that we believe you should not deal with:
Careys Chief Executive, Ms Hallett, gave evidence to the court during the Adams v Carey
hearing (at Paragraph 60) which HHJ Dight summarised as follows:
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published 
warnings about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not 
authorised under FSMA to carry out regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross 
examination that no check was made to see whether his name appeared on a regulatory 
warning notice on the FCAs website until May 2012. The relationship between the 
defendant and CLP was severed on 25 May 2012. She accepted that had she been 
aware of such a warning in 2010 the defendant would not have dealt with CLP.
The money was sent to Store First in 2012. As the published decision sets out, it is fair 
and reasonable to say by that time Carey knew, or ought to have known:
That what CL&P had told it in December 2011 about cash incentives not 
being offered was not correct. So CL&P was acting in a way which was, to 
use its own words, completely against all rules. And CL&P was acting 
without integrity as it had not told it the truth when asked about cash 
incentives.
Multiple requests had been made for copies of CL&Ps accounts, but 
CL&P was unwilling to provide this information.
So for the same reasons set out in the published decision, it is my finding that 
if Carey had carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P or acted on the 
information it subsequently received in a timely manner, it should not have 
accepted Mr Ss application from CL&P  or, at the very least, not continued 
to process it.Investment due diligence
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have 
been privy to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on Store First.
As the published decision sets out, at the time Mr Ss application was accepted Carey 
knew or ought to have known:
There were factors in the report Carey obtained on Harley Scott Holdings Ltd (the 
promoter of Store First) which ought to have been of concern  namely the adverse 
comments for the previous three years, the CCJs, and the fact the business had 
recently changed its name.
Dylan Harvey (one of three previous names of Harley Scott Holdings Ltd, 
which at the time had the web address dylanharvey.com) and one of its 
directors, Toby Whittaker, were the subject of a number of national press 
reports, online petitions and proposed legal action, as a result of a failed 
property investment.
Harley Scott Holdings Ltd had recently been involved in a property 
investment scheme which had failed. It had also recently changed its 
name, and had been subject to a number of adverse comments in 
succession, following audit.
Store Firsts marketing material set out high fixed returns, and said these were 
guaranteed. The material did not contain any type of risk warning, or 
illustrations of any other returns. No explanation of the guarantees was 
offered, or the basis of the projected returns  other than Store Firsts own 
confidence in its business model and the self-storage marketplace.
The conclusion of the Enhanced Support Solutions report Carey had 
obtained was inconsistent with the result of Careys own company 
searches. The report also makes no comment on the obvious issues with 
the marketing material.
The marketing material showed there was a significant risk that potential 
investors were being misled.
Store First appeared to be presenting the investment as one that was assured 
to provide high and rising returns, was underwritten by guarantees, and 
offered a high level of liquidity together with a strong prospect of a capital 
return - despite the fact that there was no investor protection associated with 
the investment and that, in Careys own words, there is no apparent 
established market for the investment and the investment is potentially 
illiquid
Store First had no proven track record for investors and so Carey couldnt be 
certain that the investment operated as claimed.
Consumers may have been misled or did not properly understand the 
investment they intended to make.
And, by the time the money was sent to Store First, as the published decision sets 
out, Carey knew, or ought to have known:
Store First was paying commission of 12% to CL&P. Payment of such a high 
level of commission to an unregulated business was very serious cause for 
concern, given how the investment was being marketed. How Store First was 
funding such levels of commission alongside guaranteed income payments and guaranteed buy backs called the nature of the Store First investment into 
serious question.
As in the complaint subject to the published decision, I think all of the points listed 
above should have been considered alongside the fact the investment was being 
sold by an unregulated business, which was clearly targeting pension investors. I 
think it is fair and reasonable to find that Carey ought to have concluded there was 
an obvious risk of consumer detriment here.
So, given the circumstances at the time of Mr Ss application, I think the fair and 
reasonable conclusion, based on what Carey knew or ought to have known at the time, 
is that Carey should not have accepted Mr Ss application to invest in Store First. In my 
opinion, it ought to have concluded that it would not be consistent with its regulatory 
obligations, or best practice, to do so.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for Carey to proceed with Mr 
Ss instructions?
My view on this point, in relation to this complaint, is largely the same as the view set 
out in the published decision. The key points here are:
It was not fair and reasonable for Carey to have accepted Mr Ss application 
from CL&P in the first place. So, Mr Ss SIPP should not have been 
established and the opportunity to execute investment instructions or proceed 
in reliance on an indemnity should not have arisen at all.
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. I 
consider there is a significant imbalance of knowledge between the parties 
which creates unfairness in the circumstances of this case. At the time of 
receiving Mr Ss application and executing his investment instructions, Carey 
knew things that Mr S did not.
Carey was required by its regulatory obligations to ensure that it treated its 
customers fairly. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that this would have 
required Carey to either have stopped Mr S from proceeding any further with 
the Store First investment, or as a minimum, to have explained the situation 
to Mr S as soon as possible and let him have the opportunity of making an 
informed decision whether or not to proceed.
If it had done the latter, I am satisfied that Mr S would not have proceeded 
with the investment in Store First. And he would therefore not have lost his 
entire pension fund.
Mr S has told us he cannot remember ever signing an indemnity was not 
aware there was any risk with the Store First investment. I am not persuaded 
from his comments that he signed the indemnity with a a full understanding of 
what was contained in the document. Instead he was assured by what he had 
been told by CL&P.
Is it fair to ask Carey to compensate Mr S?
My view on this point, in relation to this complaint, is also largely the same as the view set out in the published decision. The key points here are:
I do not consider the fact that Mr S signed the indemnity means that he 
shouldnt be compensated if it is fair to do so.
Had Carey acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and best 
practice, it should not have accepted Mr Ss application to open a SIPP 
introduced from CL&P. That should have been the end of the matter  it 
should have told Mr S that it could not accept the business. So if that had 
happened, the arrangement for Mr S would not have come about in the first 
place, and the loss he suffered could have been avoided.
Had Carey explained to Mr S why it would not accept the application from 
CL&P or was terminating the transaction, I find it very unlikely that Mr S 
would have tried to find another SIPP operator to accept the business.
In any event, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Carey should not 
compensate Mr S for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP 
operator would have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its 
fair instead toassume that another SIPP provider would have complied with 
its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt 
have accepted the application from CL&P, or would have terminated the 
transaction before completion.
Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Ss actions mean he should 
bear the loss arising as a result of Careys failings. I acknowledge Mr S was 
warned of the high-risk nature of Store First and declared he understood that 
warning. But Carey failed to act on, nor did it share, significant warning signs 
with Mr S so that he could make an informed decision about whether to 
proceed with the investment. And, in these circumstances, I am satisfied that 
Carey should not have asked him to sign the indemnity at all.
With all this in mind, Im of the opinion that it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case to find that Carey is unable to rely on the indemnity that Mr S 
signed in order to avoid liability for the regulatory failings it has made in this case. So I am 
satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to conclude that Carey should compensate Mr S for 
the loss he has suffered to his pension.
Putting things right
I am satisfied that Careys failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry 
best practice at the relevant time has led to Mr S suffering a significant loss to his 
pension. And my aim is therefore to return Mr S to the pension position he would now be 
in but for Careys failings. When considering this I have taken into account the Court of 
Appeals supplementary judgement ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgement 
deals with restitution/compensation.
In light of my above findings, in my view Carey should calculate fair compensation by 
comparing the current position to the position Mr S would be in if he had not transferred 
from his existing pensions. In summary, Carey should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the transfer.2. Take ownership of the Store First investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ss pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr S direct. In either case the payment should 
take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in 
further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Ss pension as at the date of 
this decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring to the SIPP.
Carey should ask Mr S's former pension provider(s) to calculate the current notional 
transfer values had he not transferred his pensions. If there are any difficulties in obtaining 
a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index 
should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type 
of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr S has suffered. The Store First 
investment should be assumed to have no value. Account should however be taken of 
the cash back payment paid out to Mr S. This can be taken into account in the calculation 
on the basis of it having been paid at the outset i.e. the same approach can be taken as 
was taken by the Court of Appeal in its supplementary judgement.
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment
I note that the Court of Appeal attached a value to the Store First investment. However, 
here, I am able to ask Carey to take ownership of the investment. And I understand Carey 
has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil consideration, in 
other cases. So it should do that here, if possible. I am satisfied that is a fair approach in 
the circumstances of this case, as it allows the SIPP to close and gives Carey the option 
of retaining the investment or realising its current market value.
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Store First investment it should remain in the 
SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable 
value in the future. I understand Mr S has the option of returning his Store First investment 
to the freeholder for nil consideration. That should enable him to close his SIPP, if Carey 
does not take ownership of the Store First investment.
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mr S decides not to 
transfer it to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs 
associated with the investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground 
rent and any other charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make 
a further complaint about these costs.
3. Pay compensation to Mr S for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).Since the loss Mr S has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean 
the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally 
allow for the income tax relief Mr S could claim. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr S may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr S direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mr S should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr S is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction 
in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 
75% of the total amount.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr S has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension 
benefits. This is money Mr S cannot afford to lose and its loss has undoubtedly caused 
him upset. I note the Court of Appeal did not find compensation should be paid for non 
financial loss. But my role here is to determine what, in my view, is fair compensation in 
the particular circumstances of this case. And I consider that a payment of £500 is fair to 
compensate for the upset Mr S has suffered.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Carey 
receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision 
to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. Options SIPP UK LLP should calculate and pay compensation as 
set out above.
I have not received any further submissions from Carey in response to the provisional 
decision. 
Mr Ss representative accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not received any further submissions in response to my provisional decision. My
decision therefore remains that the complaint should be upheld  for the reasons set out inmy provisional decision.
Putting things right
As set out in the provisional decision, Carey should: 
1. Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ss pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr S direct. In either case the payment should 
take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further 
detail below:
1.Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Ss pension as at the date of 
this decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring to the SIPP.
Carey should ask Mr S's former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had he not transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be used 
to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that 
could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr S has suffered. The Store First 
investment should be assumed to have no value. Account should however be taken of 
any cash back payment paid out to Mr S. This can be taken into account in the calculation 
on the basis of it having been paid at the outset i.e. the same approach can be taken as 
was taken by the Court of Appeal in its supplementary judgement.
2.Take ownership of the Store First investment
I note that the Court of Appeal attached a value to the Store First investment. However, 
here, I am able to ask Carey to take ownership of the investment. And I understand Carey 
has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil consideration, in 
other cases. So it should do that here, if possible. I am satisfied that is a fair approach in 
the circumstances of this case, as it allows the SIPP to close and gives Carey the option 
of retaining the investment or realising its current market value.
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Store First investment it should remain in the 
SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable 
value in the future. I understand Mr S has the option of returning his Store First investment 
to the freeholder for nil consideration. That should enable him to close his SIPP, if Carey 
does not take ownership of the Store First investment.
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mr S decides not to 
transfer it to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs 
associated with the investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any other charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make 
a further complaint about these costs.
3.Pay compensation to Mr S for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr S has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean 
the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally 
allow for the income tax relief Mr S could claim. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr S may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr S direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mr S should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr S is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction 
in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 
75% of the total amount.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr S has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension 
benefits. This is money Mr S cannot afford to lose and its loss has undoubtedly caused 
him upset. I note the Court of Appeal did not find compensation should be paid for non 
financial loss. But my role here is to determine what, in my view, is fair compensation in 
the particular circumstances of this case. And I consider that a payment of £500 is fair to 
compensate for the upset Mr S has suffered.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Carey 
receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision 
to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Options UK Personal Pensions LLP should 
calculate and pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman