DRN-3956563
The complaint
Mr M complains about the repairs that Tesco Underwriting Limited carried out on his car 
following a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to repair the new damage. 
What happened
Tesco took Mr Ms car for repairs following an accident when Mrs M, a named driver on the 
policy, was hit by another driver. When the car was returned, Mr M said there were 10 miles 
on the clock, damage to the bonnet and rear drivers side door and scuffs on the rear 
bumper. Mr M was also doubtful that the replaced front bumper was new. 
our Investigators view
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought the 
10 extra miles on the clock were due to road testing. He thought the front bumper was new. 
The garage had photographed pre-existing damage, including damage to the door. So he 
thought Tesco wasnt responsible for this. 
But it hadnt noted the scuffed rear bumper. And he thought Tesco had authorised repairs to 
the bonnet, but these hadnt been done. So he thought Tesco should pay for these repairs to 
the rear bumper and bonnet, provide Mr M with a courtesy car whilst they were carried out 
and pay him £200 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Tesco replied that the garage had provided timestamped evidence of the pre-existing 
damage. It said it had authorised repairs to a fault with the bonnet warning light, not repair of 
pre-existing damage. It thought the car had old damage and previous repairs. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Tesco on 23 January 2023. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Mr M wanted his car fully repaired. But Tesco is only responsible for 
the damage related to the claim or to the subsequent repairs. Were not engineers. We dont 
assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the 
experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available 
evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
When Mrs M reported the accident, the damage was described as to the front of the car:
Scuffs on the front bumper and drivers side wing. Also a large crack in the bumper, with 
scratches. Now showing "active bonnet malfunction" on the internal screen.
And I could see that the repairer ordered a new front bumper and then replaced it and 
blended the paintwork on the wings. The car was also road tested, which accounted for the 
extra 10 miles on the clock noted by Mr M. 
When the car was returned, Mr M noticed deep scratches and stone chips on the front 
bonnet, scuffs on the rear bumper, and dents on the rear driver side door.
After Mr M complained about new damage to his car, Tesco asked the repairer for comment. 
It provided photographs showing pre-existing damage to the drivers side rear door and the 
bonnet. I thought it was agreed that the damage to the door was pre-existing and so Tesco 
wasnt responsible for its repair.
Our Investigator thought Tesco had authorised repairs to the bonnet which hadnt been 
carried out. But I didnt agree. The garage emailed Tesco saying:
The front bumper is cracked from the accident but [Mr M] has reported the Bonnet 
malfunction warning light is on since the accident. No signs these have fired but fault code 
suggest so. The bonnet has been poorly repaired before so may be pre-existing, please 
advise if you are happy to deal with as claim related??
And Tescos engineer replied:
Ok to proceed with repairs including the bonnet issues.
I was satisfied that the issues he was referring to, and authorising, was the warning light 
malfunction. Mr M hadnt mentioned this in his complaint, so I presume it was repaired. I was 
not persuaded that Tesco was then authorising repairs to deep scratches and stone chips on 
the bonnet which it said werent related to the claim. 
Mr M also said there were new scuffs on the rear bumper. Tescos repairer hadnt 
photographed these when the car was recovered. So our Investigator thought this meant 
they werent pre-existing but had occurred whilst the car was with the repairer. 
But I didnt agree. Tescos engineer explained that the car had previous repairs and damage 
commensurate with its age. Given the pre-existing damage to the door and bonnet, I thought 
it was most likely that the scuffs to the rear bumper were also pre-existing. I hadnt seen any 
evidence to show that they were new.
Tesco said its repairer had noted the pre-existing damage when the car was recovered and 
discussed this with its engineers, as I saw. But it didnt discuss this with Mr M at the time, 
which was unfortunate as this could have avoided his complaint. 
So I was satisfied that Tesco had reasonably considered all the available evidence. And I 
thought it had justified its decision that it wasnt responsible for the repair of the damage 
noted by Mr M as it was pre-existing and unrelated to his claim or the repairs. So I didnt 
require Tesco to carry out any further repairs. And, as it hadnt made any errors, I didnt 
require Tesco to pay Mr M any compensation. 
Subject to any further representations from Mr M and Tesco, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to not uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco replied that it had nothing further to add. Mr M replied that he thought his complaint 
had been misunderstood. He said he was unhappy with the respray work done to the front of 
the car, and he thought the back bumper was misaligned as if it had been hit. He said he 
was unhappy that Tesco initially said it would make further repairs but then rejected this as it 
said the damage was pre-existing. He thought the car should be inspected. 
I think its for Mr M to show that rectification work is required to his car following its repair. I 
agree that he raised concerns about the rear bumper looking misaligned. But I cant see that 
he was said he unhappy with the respray of the paintwork to the front until later. I can see 
that Tesco asked him to obtain an independent engineers report and estimate for 
rectification and it would then consider this. I think thats fair and reasonable, and I would 
expect Tesco to consider the report before authorising rectification work.And I can see that Mr M provided a report and Tesco considered it. In response, Tesco said 
the damage was pre-existing and so it wasnt responsible for its rectification. Ive looked at 
this report, and I can see that its an estimate for repair work that includes repairs that Tesco 
has established as pre-existing. It doesnt comment on how the damage may have been 
caused or describe it in detail. It doesnt say that the back bumper is misaligned or comment 
on the resprayed paintwork. 
Mr M wanted his car inspected. And we think an inspection by an independent assessor is a 
good way to resolve disputes when there are differing engineers views about damage and 
repairs. 
But Mr M hasnt yet provided expert engineering evidence to establish that his car needs 
rectification work. So I think it would be unfair to require Tesco to pay for this at present. If 
Mr M were to provide an engineers report to show that the damage hes described was due 
to the repairs, then I would expect Tesco to consider this. 
So I think Tesco has reasonably considered all the available evidence and justified its 
decision that its not responsible for further repairs to Mr Ms car. And, as Ive said in my 
provisional decision, I dont require Tesco to carry out any further repairs. And, as it hasnt 
made any errors, I dont require Tesco to pay Mr M any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman