DRN-2271650
The complaint
Mr R complains at the delay by Al Rayan Bank PLC in processing his 2 ISA transfer 
requests and about the poor customer service he received while following this up.  
What happened
Mr R had 2 ISAs that he wanted to transfer to Al -Rayan, a bank that hed had an account 
with previously. Having been unable to log in online, he called the bank and arranged to 
complete the forms necessary to open an account and transfer his ISAs.
Mr R completed the forms and AL Rayan confirms it received them back on 21 May 2020.
The first ISA transfer for £44,069 was requested electronically and the funds received by Al 
Rayan on 4 June. However, the second ISA for £30,649 wasnt requested until 4 June and 
the request was made by post. Al Rayan confirms that the funds for this were credited to Mr 
Rs account on 19 June.
Mr R has raised a number of complaints about the way the transfers were handled and the 
banks customer service as follows:
He says that Al Rayan failed to request the transfer of the second ISA promptly and 
as a result he had his wife had to chase for progress and to make sure it was 
completed by 12 June when it would have been automatically reinvested with the 
current provider.  He says they had to call several times and each call lasted a long 
time which added to his stress. 
Mr R considers that the delay in completing the ISA transfers has led to a loss of 
interest for which he should be compensated.
He also says that despite being promised call backs on two occasions this didnt 
happen and nor did the bank call back on 3 June when their call dropped out after 90 
minutes. 
He says that despite asking to be transferred to a manager on at least three 
occasions, this was refused which he considers to be unacceptable.
Mr R says he contacted the bank on 15 May 2020 to ask why he couldnt access his 
account online and was told hed be sent hard tokens to enable him to do so which 
should arrive within 10-12 working days. This didnt happen and he was later told that 
they werent ordered until 6 July. In the meantime he wasnt able to access or check 
his account online which added to his stress. He considers that Al Rayan should 
have informed them about the changes to its online platform and the new 
requirements for hard tokens and that it was a breach of the FCA rules not to do so.
Al Rayan bank said that Mr R ceased to be a customer of the bank in March 2018, when 
their fixed term investment had ended without reinvestment, and hadnt re-joined the bank 
until May 2020. The changes to its online platform took place between March 2019 and 
March 2020 when he wasnt a customer so it didnt agree it had a duty to keep him informed.
With regard to the ISA transfers, it said that the first one had been requested and received 
by 4 June. It had done a postal request for the second ISA and, while this hadnt been 
credited to their account until 19 June, it had addressed this by offering to pay £9.40 for the 
interest on this ISA for the period 1-9 June, the date on which the two ISAs had begun 
generating income. It also pointed out that there was a 15 day window for completing such 
transfers and that, on that basis, some of the calls made by Mr and Mrs R hadnt been 
necessary.
With regard to the difficulties in getting through to the bank, Al Rayan said calls were taking 
longer because of the problems arising from the current Covid 19 pandemic and the fact 
staff were working at home. Nevertheless it agreed that thered been a number of call backs 
promised that hadnt taken place. It also agreed that Mr R should have been called back 
when the call had dropped out on 3 June. It offered £50 compensation for the poor customer 
service, including the delay in ordering the hard tokens required for Mr R to log in online. 
However, it said that telephone banking wouldnt have been available for a fixed term 
investment so felt the impact of this had been minimal. 
 
Our investigator said that even though some of the calls had been within the transfer 
window, he still needed to look at the way these calls had been dealt with and, having done 
so, he didnt feel theyd been handled as well as they could have been. Mr R was clearly 
anxious at the delay in dealing with the transfer of the second ISA and the implications of 
this and, for that reason, he could understand why hed wanted to check its progress. 
However despite his clear concerns, the bank hadnt arranged for him to talk to a manager, 
failed to make a number of promised call backs or to return a call after it had dropped out. 
Thered also been a significant delay in ordering the hard tokens needed to gain online 
access although he accepted that they wouldnt have been able to access their ISA account 
online in any event. He could see that Al Rayan had offered to pay the interest that would 
have been credited to the second ISA between 1-9 June and felt that was fair but he didnt 
feel the compensation offered for poor service was adequate for the impact of what had 
happened. He recommended a payment of £150 plus the interest.
Mr R disagreed and said in view of the number and nature of the mistakes by the bank, he 
considered £250 was more reasonable.
The bank also disagreed and said that thered been no need for the calls between 15 May 
and 9 June as this was within the accepted transfer window and while thered been some 
delay with the transfer of the second ISA this had been dealt with by its offer to pay the 
additional interest. It felt its offer of £50 compensation was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres no information on any particular point or the information available is 
incomplete or disputed, Ive looked at whats more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances of the case and made my decision on the balance of probabilities.  There are a number of issues in this complaint which Ill deal within turn
Changes to the online platform
Mr R say that Al Rayan bank should have told him about changes to its online platform. 
However, Mr Rs previous investment with the bank had been closed in 2018 and another 
investment wasnt opened until May 2020. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable of 
Al Rayan to consider that he was no longer a customer and not to keep him informed of the 
changes to its systems that happened between March 2019 and March 2020. 
 
Delay in transferring the ISAs
Al Rayan submitted the first ISA transfer request electronically shortly after receiving the 
completed transfer forms on 21 May and its notes show that the funds for this were received 
on 4 June. However, the second ISA wasnt requested until 4 June, and this was done by 
post. As a result, the transfer wasnt completed until 19 June. 
Al Rayan accepts that there was some delay in dealing with the second transfer and its 
offered to pay £9.40 for the interest that would have been earned on that ISA from 1 to 9 
June. Its also confirmed that interest on the second ISA has been backdated to 9 June to 
bring it in line with the first one. That compensates Mr R for any loss of interest caused by 
the delay in completing this transfer and I think thats fair.
The hard tokens
The bank told Mr R on 15 May that it had ordered the tokens for him but this wasnt the case 
and the tokens werent actually ordered until 6 July. This was clearly a delay and poor 
service, as Al Rayan has acknowledged.
Its also the case that even after the tokens arrived, Mr R still wasnt able to log in to check 
his investment online. This seems in part to have been caused by problems with the 
compatibility of the tokens with Mr Rs computer systems and while I appreciate how 
frustrating this must have been, I cant reasonably say Al Rayan was responsible for this. 
Al Rayans also explained that telephone banking isnt available for a fixed term investment. 
Again I can understand why Mr R may find this disappointing but I cant reasonably say this 
is poor service by Al Rayan bank. Thats because Al Rayan, like all banks, is responsible for 
managing the way it runs its operations and thats a commercial decision that I cant interfere 
with.
Customer service 
Mr R has explained very clearly why he feels so strongly that Al Rayan didnt deal well with 
the transfer of the two ISAs and that the bank didnt understand why it was essential for the 
transfers to be completed by 12 June and the implications of not doing so. He says thats 
why he and his wife continued to call for information and why they asked several times to 
speak to a more senior member of staff. 
Ive seen Al Rayan feels some of the calls were unnecessary. It says the transfers were in 
hand and theres nothing to show that they wouldnt have been completed even without the 
calls from Mr R and his wife. I cant agree. The two transfer forms were received by Al 
Rayan on 21 May. The first transfer was requested electronically shortly after this and by 3 
June had been processed. The second one wasnt requested, by post, until 4 June which 
was the day after Mr R had called to query why it hadnt yet gone through. I havent seen 
any explanation as to why the two transfers werent dealt with at the same time and it seems 
to me that its more probable than not that the second request was prompted by Mr Rs call. 
For that reason I think it would be unfair to say the calls were unnecessary.But even if that was the case, Id still have expected Al Rayan to deal with them 
appropriately and in this case Im not satisfied that it did. 
Ive seen that Al Rayan bank says its call centre performance has been affected by the 
ongoing pandemic but its not clear why Mr and Mrs R couldnt be transferred to talk to a 
manager who might have been able to reassure them that the transfers were in hand or why 
the call backs that were offered didnt take place.
I note Al Rayan has accepted that its service in some areas wasnt as good as it could have 
been and has offered compensation of £50.  However, having reviewed the information on 
this file, including the recent submissions from both parties, I agree with our investigator that 
this doesnt adequately reflect the stress and upset caused to Mr R by the banks failure to 
deal promptly with the transfer of the second ISA and its poor customer service during the 
process. 
Putting things right
For that reason, I have decided that Al Rayan should pay Mr R £150 compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience caused by its poor customer service. It should also pay him £9.40 
in respect of the interest that would have been credited between 1 and 9 June 2020 if this 
transfer had gone through promptly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs decision in part and direct Al Rayan Bank PLC to 
pay Mr R £159.40 made up of £150 compensation and £9.40 for loss of interest on the 
second ISA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman