DRN-3683641
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Bank of Scotland) wont 
refund the remaining money he lost after he fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP 
scam).
What happened
On 7 March 2023 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I wanted to give both 
parties a chance to respond with further submissions, before I gave my final decision. That 
provisional decision forms part of my final decision and is copied below.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. 
But briefly, in December 2020, Mr O received a call from an individual purporting to be from 
another banking provider, with which he held another account. But unknown to Mr O at the 
time, the call was from a fraudster.
The fraudster told Mr O there had been fraudulent activity on the account he held with the 
other bank, and on checking his account Mr O could see there were three debit card 
transactions, totalling over £10,000 that he didnt recognise and hadnt authorised. The 
fraudster suggested to Mr O that, to reassure himself that the call was genuine, he should 
verify the number he was being called from online. When Mr O did this, he says he could 
see it was the official number for his other bank. Mr O has said this gave him complete 
confidence that he was speaking to his bank, but he later discovered that the fraudsters had 
successfully spoofed the banks genuine telephone number. 
He was told that he needed to move his money to stop the fraudsters clearing out his 
account. The fraudster told Mr O he needed to move money to other accounts he held in his 
name, and then from there move the money on again. Mr O has said he questioned why he 
had to move money to different banks and the fraudster told him that the banks all worked in 
tandem, were working together, had the same remit and fell under the same regulations. The 
fraudsters added that, in order to keep his money safe he needed to act quickly and move it 
across a number of payments, and the money needed to be moved urgently to stop the 
fraudsters being able to access it.
Believing everything to be genuine, on 17 December 2020, Mr O moved £34,083.32 into the 
account he held with Bank of Scotland and, following the fraudsters instructions, went ahead 
and made the following payments, totalling £33,780.81, to account details the fraudster 
provided for three different accounts;
17 December 2020 @ 21:59  £4825.83 (to beneficiary account one)
17 December 2020 @ 21:59  £4825.83 (to beneficiary account one)
17 December 2020 @ 21:59  £4825.83 (to beneficiary account one)
17 December 2020 @ 21:59  £4825.83 (to beneficiary account two)
17 December 2020 @ 21:59  £4825.83 (to beneficiary account two)
17 December 2020 @ 21:59  £4825.83 (to beneficiary account two)
17 December 2020 @ 21:59  £4825.83 (to beneficiary account three)
When he later became suspicious, Mr O contacted his banks to report that he had been the 
victim of a scam. Bank of Scotland looked into Mr Os complaint and considered its 
obligations to provide him with a refund. Bank of Scotland is a signatory of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. It says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case and 
that Mr O hadnt met the standards required of the Code as he had ignored a warning. 
Bank of Scotland has said that while making the payments it had provided Mr O with the 
following warning (which Mr O has said he doesnt recall seeing);
[Name],
Well never call you to ask you to move your money to another account.
If you get a call like this its a scam.
Fraudsters can even copy our telephone number.
Dont believe them, hang up the phone.
Bank of Scotland also said that, during one of the payments, it provided Mr O with a warning 
that read;
Did we call and tell you to move your money to another account? 
Its said Mr O provided an untrue answer to this question and selected No. Again Mr O has 
said he doesnt recall being presented with this warning. 
Alongside this, Bank of Scotland has also said that, for each of the new payees Mr O set up, 
when providing the account details and name for the transfers, Mr O was presented with a 
confirmation of payee alert that stated: 
-We have introduced new payee checks to keep you safe
-Weve been unable to verify your payee. Not all accounts can be checked at the 
moment, but more will be available soon. You can still continue, and the details 
may be correct but please double check the account details with the payee. 
-Do you want to continue?
Bank of Scotland say Mr O disregarded the warnings and proceeded with the payments 
anyway. It did however accept that there was more it could have done, so it hadnt met its 
expectations. This was because it said the payments Mr O had made were unusual to his 
previous account activity, and so it could have done more to prevent them from being made. 
It therefore agreed to accept 50% liability for the payments made from Mr Os account and 
refunded him £16,890.44. Alongside this, Bank of Scotland also recognised it could have 
refunded this money to Mr O sooner, so it paid him interest of £337.62 (calculated at 8%) 
and compensated him with a further £150. 
Bank of Scotland also tried to recover the money Mr O lost from the beneficiary accounts 
(the accounts to which the payments were sent). It was able to recover £500 from one of the 
accounts (which was returned to Mr Os Bank of Scotland account on 22 December 2020).  
But unfortunately no further funds remained to be recovered.  
Believing he should have been refunded in full Mr O referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. In summary, he thought Bank of Scotland had provided an effective warning and he didnt think Mr O had 
a reasonable basis for believing he was speaking to a genuine member of bank staff. 
Mr O didnt agree with our Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments when looking at whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, Im required to take into 
account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment because of the actions of a fraudster, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though 
they authorised the payment. The CRM Code is of particular significance here. As Ive 
mentioned, Bank of Scotland is a signatory to that code, which requires its signatories to 
reimburse customers who are victims of scams like this one in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Bank of Scotland says that one or more of those exceptions are applicable in 
this case. Ive dealt with each exception in turn below.
Did Bank of Scotland give an effective warning?
The CRM code says that, where a firm identifies a scam risk, it should take reasonable steps 
to provide its customer with effective warnings. To meet the standards required under the 
code, the warning needs to be (as a minimum) understandable, clear, impactful, timely and 
specific. 
Bank of Scotland has said Mr O was provided with a number of warnings as part of the 
process when making his payments. The content of those warnings is set out in the 
background section above. 
Effective warnings need to be impactful enough to overcome, or at least attempt to 
overcome, the typical features of the type of scam they seek to prevent. I agree that the first 
warning Ive detailed in the background was, broadly speaking, relevant to the complaint. 
Although the fraudster wasnt saying they were from Bank of Scotland, Mr O had received a 
call apparently from his bank and hed been asked to move his money.
The CRM code also says that an effective warning needs to include the appropriate action a 
customer can take to address the risk of a scam. This warning does say that Mr O should 
hang up, rather than continue with the call but it goes no further than that. I dont think that 
was sufficient to meet the requirements of the code.   
However, Mr O cant remember seeing the warnings and from the audit records Bank of 
Scotland has provided I think this is understandable. As it appears Mr O was only on the 
particular warning screen for seconds before moving through the payment journey, so I dont 
think he read them. Im mindful that its significant here that he was being coached by the 
fraudster to act quickly and with urgency to protect his money. Considering he believed his 
money was at risk and that he needed to act promptly, its understandable why he moved 
passed this warning fleetingly.I appreciate that Bank of Scotland say Mr O received an unable to confirm Confirmation of 
Payee (CoP) result when he made the payments  and this was because the beneficiary 
banks did not have CoP in place. But this warning stated to check the account details with 
the person being paid. Given Mr O had no reason to doubt who he was paying and had what 
he considered to be the right details  I dont think this would have alerted Mr O to the 
possibility that something may not be right and that he was falling victim to a scam. Im also 
mindful that none of the warnings Bank of Scotland has said it provided, make it clear that 
any money sent as a result of a scam would be lost and likely irrecoverable, which is a 
requirement of the CRM code. 
Overall, in this particular case, while I accept Bank of Scotland did take steps to warn Mr O 
about impersonation scams, I dont think the warnings Bank of Scotland provided were 
strong enough to break the spell of the type of scam Mr O fell victim to and so Im not 
persuaded it provided effective warnings in compliance with the requirements of the CRM 
Code. This means the effective warning exception does not apply.
Did Mr O have a reasonable basis for belief?
I have also carefully thought about whether Mr O had a reasonable basis for belief when 
making the payments and Im persuaded that he did. I say that because;
-The fraudsters told Mr O that there was suspicious activity on his account. On 
checking Mr O was able to see some high value transactions that he hadnt 
authorised. I think it is understandable and not unreasonable why he may have 
thought this information was only something that his genuine bank would have 
been aware of and something that his bank would want to discuss with him, as a 
matter of some urgency.
-The sophistication of the scam enabled the fraudster to spoof a banks genuine 
telephone number which re-assured Mr O they were genuine. Im also satisfied 
Mr O was unaware that phone numbers can be spoofed so that calls appear to 
come from a genuine source.
-Mr O also made attempts to verify the number he had been called on. Mr O had 
checked the number he was being called from against the details on the banks 
genuine website. Which I think reasonably gave him further assurances that he 
was genuinely talking to his bank.
-Mr O was being coached by the fraudster on the step-by-step actions he needed 
to take and was being put under time pressure to move his money, in order to 
protect it, as is often the case for customers affected by this type of scam. Mr O 
did ask the fraudsters questions along the way (such as why he needed to pay 
different banks and make separate payments). I dont think the answers Mr O has 
said the fraudsters gave ought to have given him cause for concern. I think its 
reasonable for Mr O to have believed that it was plausible that banks would work 
together to tackle fraud and that they would want to do all they could to prevent 
Mr Os money from being at risk. 
-I dont think Bank of Scotland has given enough consideration to the fact the 
fraudster had created an environment where Mr O thought he had to act quickly 
to protect his accounts from an attack. With the benefit of hindsight and the 
removal of the pressured environment, its easier to identify elements where Mr O 
may have had an opportunity to ask further questions. But the convincing nature 
of these scams can often have a negative effect on a persons thought process and make them take steps that, in the cold light of day, they might not otherwise 
take. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland has done enough to establish that Mr O 
made these payments without a reasonable basis for believing that he was transacting with 
a legitimate employee of his bank.
Considering everything, Im persuaded that Bank of Scotland should have reimbursed all the 
money Mr O lost from his Bank of Scotland account under the CRM Code. Im not satisfied 
that any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this 
case.
Should Bank of Scotland have done more to prevent the scam?
In addition, I think that Bank of Scotland ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this 
scam. Ive looked at Mr Os account statements in the months leading up to the scam and 
Im persuaded that the first payment Mr O makes, for £4825.83, is a significant departure 
from how he typically runs his account.
The evidence Ive seen shows that the transactions on Mr Os account are more typically for 
relatively low values, indeed there are only a few payments over £100, which are for the 
same monthly direct debit. So, Im persuaded that a payment for over £4,000 to a new payee 
ought to have caused Bank of Scotland concern that Mr O may have been at risk of financial 
harm, I think it stands out as unusual and out of character. I also think this is supported by 
Bank of Scotlands own records, which indicate there had been no payments out of similar 
values in the two years leading up to the scam and the spending before had been relatively 
modest in comparison.
With this in mind, I think its reasonable to have expected Bank of Scotlands intervention to 
have gone further than it did, and for it to have asked Mr O some questions before allowing 
the payments to be processed. Had it done so, I think the scam wouldve quickly unfolded 
and Mr O wouldnt have gone ahead with the first, or the subsequent payments. 
The relevance of this finding is that Bank of Scotland ought to have prevented the loss, 
rather than just reimbursed Mr O under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that Bank 
of Scotland should pay Mr O interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not 
to refund him under the CRM Code. 
I cant know for certain what Mr O wouldve done with the funds he lost had he not been 
defrauded, so I think its fairest to award interest at a rate of 8% simple per year  to reflect 
the cost of being deprived of that money. 
My provisional decision
In all of the circumstances, I am currently minded to say that the fair and reasonable 
outcome is to uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland to;
-refund Mr O the outstanding loss of £16,390.37 (being the overall amount Mr O 
lost, of £33,780.81, less the £500 Bank of Scotland was able to recover and the 
£16,890.44 it has already refunded to Mr O) 
-pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of payments to the date of 
settlement.Bank of Scotland didnt respond to my provisional decision and Mr O responded to confirm 
that he was in agreement with it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr O has agreed with my provisional decision and as Bank of Scotland hasnt made any 
further submissions, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision and, therefore, I 
continue to be of the view that this complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should;
- refund Mr O the outstanding loss of £16,390.37 (being the overall amount Mr O 
lost, of £33,780.81, less the £500 Bank of Scotland was able to recover and the 
£16,890.44 it has already refunded to Mr O)
- pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of payments to the date of 
settlement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman