DRN-2786077
The complaint
Mr T complains that Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow.co.uk was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr T was provided with seven loans by cash4unow.co.uk between January 2019 and July 
2020. The details of the loans re set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 03/01/2019 26/04/2019 4 £300.00
2 29/04/2019 23/08/2019 4 £500.00
3 09/09/2019 04/10/2019 4 £300.00
4 18/10/2019 26/11/2019 4 £200.00
5 13/01/2020 19/03/2020 4 £150.00
6 01/05/2020 29/06/2020 4 £200.00
7 09/07/2020 19/11/2020 4 £200.00
 
Mr T says that he borrowed money he couldnt afford and ended up taking out new loans as 
soon as previous loans had been repaid. Mr T says the loans put him in cycle of debt and he 
was taking out loans with several lenders.
Cash4unow.co.uk says that before the loans were provided affordability and credit 
worthiness checks were carried out. After investigating Mr Ts complaint, it said that further 
checks should have taken place before the first loan was provided but said loans 2 to 7 were 
responsibly lent. It offered to refund interest and charges on loan 1 totalling £175.40 and to 
remove this from his credit file. It noted that Mr T had a balance of £0.49 which it said would 
be written off.
Mr T didnt accept cash4unow.co.uks final response and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. She said that the credit search carried out by 
cash4unow.co.uk before loan 1 was provided showed the Mr T had taken out 70 short term 
loans over the previous 74 months including three loans within the previous three months. 
She said this should have raised concerns that Mr T was experiencing financial difficulties 
and that further checks should have then taken place. She thought that further checks would 
have shown that Mr T was having problems managing his money and that he was unlikely to 
be able to sustainably repay the loan and subsequent loans.
Cash4unow.co.uk didnt accept our adjudicators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cash4unow.co.uk needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr T could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that cash4unow.co.uk should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that cash4unow.co.uk was required to 
establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Before the first loan was provided to Mr T a credit search was carried out. I have looked 
through the results of this and agree that it should have raised concerns. The search showed 
that Mr T had taken out 70 short term loans, three in the previous three months and five in 
the previous six months and that he was sourcing short term loans from six different 
companies. I think this should have raised concerns that Mr T was struggling to manage his 
money. Cash4unow.co.uk agreed that further checks should have been carried out before 
this loan was provided and upheld this loan. I think this is reasonable.
Given the situation before the first loan was provided, I wouldnt have expected 
cash4unow.co.uk to have provided any subsequent loans unless there was a significant gap 
in Mr Ts borrowing, or his circumstances had changed such that it would be reasonable to say that there had been a significant improvement in his financial situation. In this case, 
there were no substantial breaks in Mr Ts borrowing, and I do not think there was enough to 
say that his financial circumstances improved significantly over the time the borrowing was 
provided. I have set out more details below.
Mr T repaid loan 1 and took out loan 2 three days later. Loan 2 was for a higher 
amount. I note that the credit search showed that Mr T only had one other short term 
loan outstanding at the time but given his history of use of short term loans and that 
this loan was taken out straight after repaying the previous loan, I think this suggests 
that Mr T was still having problems managing his money and that there was a 
significant risk that he wouldnt be able to sustainably afford his repayments.
Loans 3 and 4 were both taken out within a month of the previous loan being repaid 
and while the loan amounts reduced to £300 and then £200 respectively I think that 
cash4unow.co.uk should have been concerned about the sustainability of these 
loans. I say this because the credit searches showed that Mr T had two other short 
term loans outstanding at the time of each loan. Given Mr Ts history of use of short 
term loans I do not think at this time there was anything to suggest his financial 
situation had improved significantly since the first loan was provided. 
There was a break of over a month between loan 4 being repaid and loan 5 being 
taken out. Loan 5 was for a lower amount of £150. Having looked at the information 
provided I can see that there may have been signs that Mr Ts financial situation was 
improving. However, at this stage I dont think there was enough to be certain that 
the situation Mr T had experienced over the previous months had changed 
substantially and so I do not find I have enough to say that cash4unow.co.uk was 
reasonable to provide this loan.
By loan 6, Mr T had been borrowing from cash4unow.co.uk for around 16 months 
and this loan as for a higher amount than the previous loan. By this time, given 
Mr Ts borrowing history with cash4unow.co.uk and his history of use of other short 
term loans, I think cash4unow.co.uk should have been concern that Mr T might be 
persistently reliant on short term borrowing, therefore do not find it reasonable that 
this and the subsequent loan was provided.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress cash4unow.co.uk should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it not lent to Mr T. Clearly there are a great many possible, 
and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr T may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly after a relationship had been 
established between him and this particular lender. If this wasnt a viable option, he may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. 
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how it would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr T in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr T would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce cash4unow.co.uks liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Because of this Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow.co.uk should:
refund all interest and charges applied to loans with no outstanding balance and 
refund this along with 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
waive any interest or charges on any loans with an outstanding balance and treat all 
payments made towards these loans as if they were payments of capital. If this 
results in overpayments, these should be refunded to Mr T along with 8% simple 
interest* on the overpayments from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement; 
remove any adverse information cash4unow.co.uk has recorded on Mr Ts credit file 
in relation to loans 1 to 5. Given the pattern of Mr Ts borrowing by loan 6 I think all 
information recorded against this and subsequent loans is adverse and so all 
information on loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Mr Ts cried file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Cash4unow.co.uk 
should give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow.co.uk 
should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman