DRN-2602183
The complaint
Ms Ws unhappy with the premium refund Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has offered 
her following the cancellation of her annual multi-trip travel insurance policy.
 
What happened
On 20 September 2019, Ms W took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which 
was insured by URV. Ms W paid £116.23 for her policy. She didnt declare any medical 
conditions to URV, so she didnt pay an additional amount for medical cover.
In March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office 
advised against all but essential travel. Ms W spoke to URV on 23 July 2020 to cancel her 
policy, although shes since told us that she was trying to contact it for some time 
beforehand and wasnt able to get through.
URV offered Ms W a total premium refund of £29.05. It said its policy terms stated that if a 
policyholder cancelled an annual policy after the cooling-off period had passed, theyd be 
entitled to a refund of 5% of the policy premium per full remaining calendar month. As Ms 
Ws policy was due to expire on 19 September 2020, URV said shed strictly only be entitled 
to a refund of £11.63, but it made a total refund offer of £29.05. 
Ms W was unhappy with URVs offer and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought URVs offer was fair and reasonable. She didnt think the regulators 
rules entitled Ms W to a refund of premium. So she felt it was fair for URV to rely on its policy 
terms and conditions. She considered that it had effectively offered Ms W an amount which 
was equivalent to a 5% premium refund for five months rather than two. So she didnt think 
URV needed to pay anything more.
Ms W disagreed. She responded to our investigator in detail and Ive summarised her 
response:
URV had failed in its duty of care to contact her, as a vulnerable customer, once the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office advised against all but essential travel. She is 
elderly, has underlying health conditions and is at high risk of serious illness from 
Covid-19;
She didnt wait until 23 July 2020 to cancel her policy, this had been the earliest date 
shed been able to get through on the phone, despite trying around 60 times;
Given she couldnt travel after March 2020, she had no use for her policy and it 
became worthless;
Its unethical for URV to rely on the terms of its contract which favour them, given the 
unconventional circumstances of Covid-19 and the policy should have greater 
flexibility;
The industry regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority  FCA) had been explicit in 
its expectations of insurers during the pandemic, including the need to be more 
flexible and understanding and provide value for money;
News about the pandemic had been circulating in the couple of months before March 
2020 and so she hadnt been able to make any travel plans even before that point.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms W, I think URVs refund offer is fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like Ms Ws have a cooling off period of up to 14 days for a 
consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is called the right to 
cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Ms W took out the policy on 20 September 2019 and she didnt cancel it until 23 July 2020. 
So I think its clear that she didnt cancel the policy within 14 days.  And, under industry 
rules, even if she had done so, she still wouldnt be entitled to a full refund of the premium 
shed paid. Thats because URV was covering her for the cancellation of any trips shed 
booked during that time.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Ms Ws insurance policy with URV set out the cancellation rights 
under the contract. These say:
You have a cooling off period where, should you decide that you find that the terms and 
conditions do not meet your requirements and provided you have not travelled or claimed on 
the policy, you can advise Travel Administration Facilities within 14 days of purchase for a 
full refund to be considered.Should you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14-day cooling off
period, and can confirm that there have been no claims on the policy and that you have not 
travelled, in addition to a £15 administration charge 
Multi-trip policies - Provided you have not made a claim (irrespective of whether your claim 
was successful or not) on the policy and you confirm in writing that there is no claim pending, 
should you choose to cancel and understand that all benefits of the policy will be cancelled, 
we will refund 5% of the total premium paid, for each full calendar month remaining on the 
policy from the date of cancellation. If you are intending to, or have claimed (irrespective of 
whether your claim was successful or not) we will not consider refunding any proportion of 
your premium. 
I think its clear that Ms Ws cancellation rights under her contract of insurance are more 
favourable to her than the industry rules require. And I think the policy terms mean that Ms 
W is entitled to a 5% refund of premiums under the terms and conditions of her contract with 
URV.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand that given the impact of Covid-19 on the travel industry and the potential risk to 
Ms Ws health, her need for the remainder of this annual multi-trip insurance policy changed 
due to circumstances beyond her control. So Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask URV to do anything further, taking into account the exceptional and 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Ms Ws contract with URV to be performed. 
I say that because Ms W was insured from 20 September 2019 for travelling on any number 
of trips of up to 31 days duration which she might have taken up until the policy was 
cancelled on 23 July 2020. Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an 
insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips Ms W may have taken. There may have 
been many trips or there may have been none, but URV was still covering the risk of a claim 
during the time the policy was in force.
The price set by URV covered Ms W for the cancellation of any holidays which shed booked 
and was due to take between 20 September 2019 and 23 July 2020. So Ms W wouldve 
been covered if shed had to cancel any number of holidays because of any listed events 
insured under the policy. Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer has 
commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. So regardless of what Ms Ws cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for URV to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered.
However, after 23 July 2020, due to Covid-19, URV didnt bear any risk under Ms Ws policy 
for any other holidays. So URV was therefore no longer carrying the risk of any holidays 
being cancelled for any other insured reason. This also meant that URV was also no longer 
carrying the risk of any claim being made if Ms W had travelled abroad. URV has said the premiums paid by Ms W for her travel insurance policy were split at 
around 50% of the premium for pre-travel cancellation cover and 50% of the premium for 
cover while travelling. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. 
Based on the explanations that URV has provided about its reasons for calculating the 
premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied its demonstrated theres not a material 
unevenness in the way the risk is spread for this policy. And Im satisfied that URV hasnt 
treated Ms W unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar circumstances. 
Having taken into account the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the 
Covid-19 pandemic, I think the offer which URV has made to refund Ms W £29.05 (which 
represents a higher amount than 1/12th of the policy premium for two calendar months (23 
July until 19 September 2020 and which is also equal to a 5% premium refund for five 
calendar months rather than two) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I do appreciate why Ms W felt the policy effectively became worthless to her once Covid-19 
restrictions were imposed and she was no longer able to travel, especially given shes told 
us that shes at a high risk of becoming seriously unwell with the virus. And I sympathise with 
her position.
But as Ive explained, I think URVs offer went further than the FCAs rules regarding refunds 
required it to do. Its also offered Ms W a higher premium refund than she was strictly 
entitled to under the policy terms. Im not persuaded that it failed in any duty of care to Ms W 
and I wouldnt have reasonably expected it to get in touch with each of its customers to 
check whether or not they wanted to continue cover. Many policyholders may still have been 
relying on cancellation or medical expenses cover (for example) for other trips they had 
planned.
Ms Ws also suggested that she tried to cancel her policy earlier and wasnt able to get 
through. Our investigator checked with Ms W whether she had any evidence of the calls 
shed made, to consider whether she had tried to cancel earlier. Ms W wasnt able to provide 
us with any further information. If she is able to find phone bills which show she tried to 
contact URV at an earlier date to cancel the policy, its open to her to provide this information 
to URV for it to reconsider whether it correctly calculated the cancellation date. If shes 
unhappy with the outcome of any further review by URV of her cancellation date, she may 
be able to bring a complaint to us about that issue alone.
This means that overall, I think URV has treated Ms W fairly and reasonably. So I wont be 
asking URV to pay anything more. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman