DRN-3592248
The complaint
Ms S complains Sainsburys Bank Plc missold her a legal expenses insurance policy as they 
failed to tell her about restrictions in relation to fees that would be covered.
What happened
Ms S bought legal expenses insurance (LEI) through Sainsburys Bank Plc in around June 
2020. She made a claim on the policy to pursue a claim against her employer. The insurers 
accepted her claim under the policy and said she could appoint her own solicitors. But the 
insurers refused to pay fees at the hourly rate her preferred solicitors wanted to charge. 
Ms S felt the insurers had restricted the solicitors she could appoint by the hourly rate they 
were prepared to pay so as to render her freedom of choice of solicitor meaningless. She 
has made a separate complaint about that to the insurers. Here she complains Sainsburys 
mis-sold the policy to her on grounds the hourly rate wasnt made clear and the standard 
terms on which the insurers would agree to appoint solicitors werent made available at the 
point of sale.
Sainsburys thought the information theyd given Ms S about the cover she was buying was 
sufficiently clear. But they apologised for some service issues in the handling of her 
complaint and offered her compensation of £50. Ms S was unhappy with their response, so 
she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator acknowledged Sainsburys hadnt drawn the limit on the hourly rate the 
insurers would pay to Ms Ss attention during the sales process. But she didnt think the 
relevant rules required Sainsburys to do so, since a limit of that sort wasnt unusual in LEI 
policies. And she didnt think it would have affected Ms Ss decision to take out the 
insurance, even if shed known about it. Since Ms S didnt accept our investigators view, her 
complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms Ss strength of feeling about what happened. And I note her disappointment 
in relation to our investigators view. The Financial Ombudsman is required to come to an 
impartial view in the individual circumstances of each case based on what is fair and 
reasonable to both parties. Having carefully considered the information the parties provided 
and listened to the calls Ms S had with Sainsburys representatives, and our investigator, I 
dont uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms S was clearly looking carefully into her options before she took out home insurance in 
June 2020. She spoke to Sainsburys on several occasions to check information theyd given 
her about the cover they could offer and said she was comparing it with other quotes shed 
obtained. 
Since Ms S was a Sainsburys customer with a loyalty card, and a new customer for home 
insurance purposes, they were able to offer her a quote from their full panel of insurers.     
Ms S was concerned about the price of the insurance and asked Sainsburys if further 
discounts were available to her. They confirmed they were not.
Although Sainsburys werent advising Ms S on the insurance, they were selling it to her. So, 
in line with relevant Financial Conduct Authority rules, they needed to provide Ms S with 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed choice 
about the cover she was buying and whether it was suitable for her needs and 
circumstances. To enable her to do that, wed expect Sainsburys to have pointed out any 
unusual exclusions or restrictions in the policy she planned to buy. 
Ms Ss policy said if she appointed her own solicitors, they must agree to the insurers 
Standard Terms of Appointment (the Terms) and that the insurers would pay the 
reasonable, proportionate and properly incurred fees, expenses, costs and disbursements 
Ms S incurred in pursuing a claim. The Terms limited the hourly rate the insurers would pay 
to any solicitors Ms S appointed to £120 an hour.
I acknowledge Sainsburys didnt tell Ms S about the Terms and hourly rate when she was 
discussing the policy with them on the phone. Sometimes a rate will be specified in the 
policy itself, but not always  as here. And its not unusual for fees to be restricted to those 
that are both reasonable in amount and reasonably incurred  as here. So, I dont think the 
terms relating to costs were unusual. And, because of that, I dont think its unreasonable or 
unfair that Sainsburys didnt draw them to Ms Ss attention.
Sainsburys sent Ms S policy documentation and told her she had 14 days within which to 
cancel the policy if she felt it didnt suit her needs and requirements. The documentation 
included the policy booklet which set out the wording Ive mentioned. And although the 
Terms werent part of the documentation, Sainsburys covering letter said she could request 
a copy if she wanted to read them. 
Its reasonable to expect a customer to review the terms to check they are getting the cover 
they want. Im not aware Ms S asked to see the Terms. If shed done so, she would have 
known about the hourly rate and could have cancelled the policy then if she felt it didnt give 
her the cover she wanted. On balance, I think Sainsburys gave Ms S sufficiently clear 
information to enable her to make an informed decision as to whether the policy met her 
needs and requirements.
Even if I thought Sainsburys should have drawn the limit on hourly rates to Ms Ss attention, 
I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of her complaint. Ms S has told us she 
wouldnt have taken the policy out. From the conversations Ms S had with Sainsburys, I 
think Ms S intended to take LEI out. She asked focused questions about the LEI insurance 
such as the events that would be covered, how pre-existing disputes would be dealt with and 
the overall limit of indemnity for legal costs. But she didnt ask about hourly rates. And she 
was concerned about the cost of the insurance and was looking at other quotes. From what 
Ive seen, Im not persuaded the hourly rate was something that would have caused Ms S to 
decline the LEI cover Sainsburys were offering. 
Even if the hourly rate had been a concern for Ms S when she was buying the policy, given 
LEI insurers commonly limit the hourly rates they will pay, I think Ms S would have found it 
difficult to find substantively better cover with an alternative insurer at a price she was willing 
to pay. Im not aware of what the other insurers Ms S obtained from were offering. And 
although shes mentioned shes had experience of other insurers paying hourly rates higher 
than those the insurers would pay in her case, she hasnt provided any details. So, Im not 
persuaded she would have acted differently and declined the cover Sainsburys were offering for LEI.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Ms S will be disappointed, I dont uphold her 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman