DRN-3117534
The complaint
Mr V complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank (YB) mis-sold him a 
personal loan. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr V took out a personal loan with YB to pay off an existing car finance agreement 
with another provider. Mr V said he chose the loan as it was a cheaper rate and he was told 
he was able to make lump sum payments and settle the loan early without charge. He said 
this was important to him as hes self-employed and his income varies. 
Mr V made lump sum payments in 2019 and settled the loan early in 2020. YB told Mr V they 
charged him 58 days interest on the 2019 lump sums and the final settlement amount paid in 
2020. Mr V didnt think this was fair as the loan agreement didnt include information about 
being charged 58 days interest. So, he complained. 
YB issued their final response in March 2020 and pointed to the key features document. 
They said this explained early repayments and the 58 days interest. 
Mr V said the key features document YB relied on when responding to the complaint wasnt 
the same document he received after he took the loan out. He remained unhappy with YBs 
response and felt they took far too long to investigate his concerns. So, he approached our 
service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She didnt 
think YB made the 58 days interest clear to Mr V and wasnt persuaded this was 
communicated to him. She also looked at the key features document Mr V provided and 
agreed the 58 days interest detail wasnt included in it. 
She recommended YB should refund the 58 days interest applied to the 2019 and 2020 
payments Mr V made and compensate him £150. 
YB agreed, but Mr V didnt. He didnt think the compensation amount fairly reflected the 
distress and inconvenience YB caused him, or the time hed spent dealing with the 
complaint. He said he was misled by YB and asked for an ombudsman to decide, so it was 
passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision to all parties on 5 October 2021, which follows. 
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my view, there are three key aspects to this complaint, namely: 
-Was the loan mis-sold to Mr V? 
-Was Mr V charged more interest than he should have been? And; 
-Did YB treat Mr V unfairly in some other way? 
Ill address each in turn. 
Was the loan mis-sold to Mr V? 
Mr V says he had some car finance debt and noticed he could refinance at a better interest
rate through YB. He says he attended a YB branch and made it clear he wanted a loan he
could repay early or in lump sums without any charge, interest or penalty. He says he was
told this loan met his needs. However, as he later realised, thats not quite the case, for
reasons Ill come on to.
Mr V has made it clear repaying his loan early was important to him, so I think its likely he
asked questions about it when deciding whether to take the loan out. And his actions upon
learning how interest would be charged and early repayment suggest his understanding was
incorrect. So, Im persuaded on balance, he was given incorrect and/or incomplete
information when he visited the YB branch. However, Im not persuaded it makes a material
difference. Ill explain why.
Personal loans are mostly, if not all, regulated. That means theyre set up in the same way
and the same rules apply. I dont think it would have been easy for Mr V to find an alternative
loan which wouldnt have treated early repayments in the same way as this loan did. Im also
mindful Mr V was attracted by YBs interest rate, which was significantly lower than the rate
he was paying on his car finance debt. So, overall, had Mr V been given different information
in the YB branch, Im not satisfied, on the balance of probability, he would have done
something different.  
Was Mr V charged more interest than he should have been? 
Mr Vs loan was regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. That means certain things,
such as early repayments, are set out in law. In brief, the relevant legislation says a lender
should calculate an interest rebate if early repayment is made. The rebate, however, can
include deferred interest, which I understand the given term of this loan was 58 days.
YB is unable to provide any details of the loan history. They cant, for example, show how
any of Mr Vs payments impact the interest he paid, or the balance. But Mr V has helpfully
provided some documents which show his 2019 payments had the effect of reducing his
monthly contractual payments. And I can see Mr V did end up paying less interest than he
could have had the loan run the term. So, Im satisfied, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, YB charged Mr V interest in line with the law.
Did YB treat Mr V unfairly in some other way? 
YB has let Mr V down at times. Finding out he was being charged more interest than he
thought would have been frustrating for him. But when he questioned how and why he was
being charged interest in the way he was, YB didnt respond in a timely or helpful manner.
They also referred to a document which wasnt applicable to the issue at hand. And lastly,
despite the recent repayment of the loan, their records have been insufficient to allow for a
full and proper review of the loan history, causing further delays and uncertainty for Mr V in
bringing this matter to a close.
Overall, I agree some compensation is due here. Though, whilst I accept Mr V will be
disappointed, I dont think what hes requested in terms of a monetary amount is fair. Ive
also seen Mr V told us the complaint has taken up much of his time  time he would have
otherwise spent developing his practice and with his family. I accept why hes requested wecompensate him for his time, but Im afraid our service doesnt award compensation based
on units of time.
It's been a frustrating period for Mr V and Ive no doubt YB has caused him to experience a
level of distress and inconvenience. So, I currently think YB should pay him £250 to resolve
matters. I think this brings a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I intend to uphold it, and require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Yorkshire Bank to pay Mr V £250 compensation. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr V and YB responded to my provisional decision and accepted the intended 
outcome.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V and YB accepted my provisional decision, so I dont need to go on to consider any new 
or further information provided by either party following this. Therefore, my final decision 
follows along the same lines to that of my provisional decision outlined above.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank must pay Mr V 
£250 compensation for any distress and inconvenience this matter caused.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold it, and now require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Yorkshire Bank to pay Mr V £250 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman