DRN-3068338
The complaint
 This complaint is about mortgage advice Ms Ms received from Mortgage Advice Bureau 
Limited (MAB) when she wanted a new interest rate deal. Shes unhappy at ending up with a 
higher rate than she could have got if MAB had assessed her immigration status correctly 
instead it assuming her situation was unchanged from the previous transaction it had 
arranged for her. 
The above summary is in my own words. The basic background to this complaint is well 
known to both parties so I wont repeat the details here. Instead Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The main facts arent in dispute, and Mortgage Advice Bureau has accepted fault and made 
an offer to settle the complaint. All Im required to decide is whether that offer is fair so I will 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
I dont have to decide if Ms M was the victim of mis-selling. Mortgage Advice Bureau has 
admitted as much and already offered to compensate Ms M for the extra interest shell pay 
because it put her on a new rate with her existing lender when a cheaper two-year deal was 
available from a different lender that Ms M would have been eligible for. Its also offered 
Ms M £100 compensation for her time, trouble and upset. 
Subsequently, it agreed to a recommendation by our investigator that it increase the latter 
from £100 to £250. Ms M doesnt agree with the proposed settlement and says shes been 
discriminated against. It falls to me to decide what a fair resolution should be for MABs 
admitted shortcomings.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the following conclusions:
MABs offer of redress for the extra interest cost of Ms M mortgage deal is fair. The deal 
that should have been provided for her would have run until January 2022; thats the 
known duration of Ms Ms financial loss, so thats the amount of time that should be used 
for the redress calculation. MAB doesnt have to pay redress for the additional 
three-months duration of the deal Ms M did end up with, as it cant be assumed shell 
suffer a loss during those months.
Ive thought hard about Ms Ms request to be paid interest at 8% on the redress. The 
reason we make such an award is to compensate for the consumer being deprived of the 
funds that make up the loss. But here, that loss arises in installments each month Ms M 
makes a mortgage payment thats higher than it needed to have been. At the time MAB 
made its offer of redress, the majority of Ms Ms loss was yet to occur. She was, in effect, 
being offered compensation in advance for a loss that, for the most part, hadnt yet 
happened. I appreciate more time has now elapsed, and the majority (albeit still not all) 
of Ms Ms loss has now happened. But MABs offer was fair and reasonable when made, 
so it wouldnt be appropriate to require it also to pay compensatory interest on top.
Ms M has characterized MABs actions as discriminatory. Without in any way playing 
down or disregarding Ms Ms feelings, I have no remit to assess her complaint in that 
context. The Financial Ombudsman Services role is to assess complaints in terms of 
maladministration and/or unfair treatment; and as Ive already explained, MAB had 
already admitted its failings and offered redress for them before the case came to us. 
On the subject of compensation for time, trouble and upset, this is very much a 
subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, especially in the 
moment. But I have to take a step back and assess things objectively. When I do that, 
Im not persuaded that MABs initial offer of £100 was quite sufficient. I agree with our 
investigator that a further £150, making £250 in all, is a fair settlement in all the 
circumstances.
For these reasons, although I understand Ms Ms strength of feeling, Im satisfied the current 
proposal for settling her complaint is fair and that theres no basis for me to order MAB to do 
more.
  
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Mortgage Advice Bureau to:
Reimburse Ms M £645.36 for the extra cost of funding her mortgage up to January 2022; 
and
pay Ms M £250 compensation.
I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman