DRN-4286459
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy about what happened when he contacted American Express Services 
Europe Limited (Amex) about an insurance policy offered through his Amex card. 
What happened
Mr G has travel insurance provided as part of his credit card. Last year he contacted Amex 
and discussed what his policy would cover. Issues relating to policy wording and coverage 
have been considered as part of a separate complaint against the insurer of his policy. 
Mr G says Amex told him that while the policy said it would only cover trips if booked on his 
Amex card a claim would still be considered if a merchant didnt accept Amex. Mr G is 
unhappy it wouldnt then confirm that in writing to him. And hes also unhappy it didnt 
provide a response to the complaint he subsequently made to it. 
Our investigator agreed this information wasnt contained in the policy wording. But he was 
satisfied what Amex had told Mr G matched an internal guidance document. And he didnt 
think there was any reason to think a claim wouldnt be assessed in this way by the insurer. 
So he didnt think Amex needed to do anything more. And he didnt think we could consider 
the concerns Mr G raised about how his complaint was handled. 
Mr G remained concerned Amex hadnt put this information in writing to him. And he asked 
for an Ombudsman to consider the matter. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says when he spoke to Amex it told him claims would be covered if he hadnt booked 
with his Amex card if that was because the provider didnt accept Amex. I appreciate that 
information doesnt appear in his policy. But it is included in general information Amex holds 
about the policy. So I dont think Amex was wrong to reference this when it discussed 
matters with him. 
I appreciate Mr G is concerned Amex wouldnt then put that information in writing to him. Im 
unclear why it wasnt able to do that though I can see its guidance says any specific 
questions about coverage should be referred to the insurer. In any case if there was an issue 
with a claim Mr G wanted to make on his policy hed still be able to reference what he was 
told by Amex if this was relevant to it. 
However, as he doesnt have a claim at the moment I dont see this is an issue I need to 
consider; Mr G hasnt lost out because of what he believes Amex got wrong. I appreciate he 
may be concerned about the impact on other policyholders but its only his complaint Im 
considering in this decision.  
Mr G is also concerned Amex didnt (and still hasnt) provided a response to the complaint 
he made. Complaint handling isnt one of the activities our rules allow us to consider. So I 
cant look at in isolation. I could look at it when thinking about the overall customer service 
Amex provided but I could only make an award for complaint handling if I was also doing so 
for something related to customer service more generally. That isnt the case here. So I 
wont be considering this issue further. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman