DRN-3873953
The complaint
Ms P complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited charged her the full years premium 
for her motor insurance policy after her car was stolen.
  
Skyfire is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Skyfire has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Skyfire includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
In February 2022, Ms P made a claim under her motor insurance policy with Skyfire after her 
car was stolen. She continued to pay monthly insurance premium payments while the claim 
was ongoing.
When Ms P called Skyfire for an update in April 2022, she was told shed only need to pay 
her premium payments until her claim was resolved. However, after her claim was settled in 
June, another premium payment was taken from Ms Ps bank account by direct debit. Ms P 
contacted Skyfire who told her that the full premium for the year was due. 
Ms P raised a complaint with Skyfire, who apologised for giving her incorrect information in 
April. It said that she wasnt entitled to a refund of her premium according to the terms of the 
policy. It said it would remove £125 from her outstanding balance as an apology for errors 
and delays. This would leave her with a balance of around £1,500.
Ms P remained unhappy, so she asked our service to consider her complaint. Our 
investigator looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator thought Skyfire had acted fairly, in line with the terms of the policy.
Ms P disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said she didnt feel she should have to 
pay the remaining five months of the policy for the mistakes Skyfire had made. She felt 
Skyfire should waive the remaining balance. She thought it was unfair she should have to 
pay for a policy when she only had the car for one month and it was no longer there to 
insure. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Most motor insurance policies are yearly contracts where the premium is payable upfront. 
From what Ive seen, it appears that Ms P took out a finance agreement so that she could 
pay the premium back to the creditor in monthly instalments by direct debit.
I can understand why Ms P feels she shouldnt have to pay for insurance, when the car was 
no longer there to insure. It was unfortunate that her car was stolen only a month after the 
start of her policy.
However, the policys terms and conditions say:
If any of the following apply, you may not receive any refund and you may still have to pay 
the balance of the full yearly premium. This applies in all circumstances no matter what 
payment method you use.
You have made a claim in the policy year or a claim has been made against your 
policy
Most motor insurance policies have similar wording. So, I dont find this unusual. 
If Skyfire had been able to recover what it paid out on the claim, I would expect it to refund 
some of the premium. However, Skyfire says it wasnt able to recover its outlay because its 
a theft claim and theres no third party to financially recover the claim costs from. So, I think 
it was reasonable for Skyfire to refuse a refund, in line with the policys terms.
I can see that Skyfire told Ms P it would usually expect the rest of the policy to be paid off in 
a lump sum if a policyholder needs to cancel after a claim. However, Skyfire also told her its 
collections team would be able to assist her with an affordable payment plan, which I think is 
fair. 
I appreciate it was upsetting for Ms P to be told that she needed to pay the full premium in 
July after shed been told differently in April. However, Skyfire has apologised for this, as 
well as for a delay in dealing with her complaint, and the time Ms P needed to spend on the 
phone. And I think the £125 Skyfire has given her, is enough to compensate Ms P for the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of these customer service issues.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Ms P, but Im satisfied Skyfire has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with the terms of the policy. So, I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman