DRN-2912497
The complaint
Ms K complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited provided her with a car that was not of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In March 2019 Ms K entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo. Under the 
agreement she was to take a used car for 60 months, paying just over £150 a month, 
including insurance. She paid a deposit of £3,200, and the cash price attached to the car 
was just over £9,000.
Ms K says that she started having problems with the car almost as soon as she took delivery 
of it. The dealership arranged for repairs to be carried out, including repairs to several parts 
of the cars cooling system. These repairs did not however completely resolve the problems 
and the car was returned for further repairs and a service a little later. Ms K indicated that 
she wanted to return the car and end the hire purchase agreement, but after further 
discussions agreed to allow further repairs to be carried out. Ms K collected the car in 
August 2019 and has said that she has had no further significant issues since then.
Ms K remained dissatisfied. She says she should have been allowed to reject the car. She 
also says that she lost her job because she needed the car for commuting. She referred the 
case to this service where one of our investigators considered what had happened. He 
recommended that MotoNovo refund the monthly payments made from March to August 
2019, refund the cost of the service Ms K had paid for and pay her a further £200 in 
recognition of the inconvenience she had been put to and the distress she had suffered. He 
also recommended that MotoNovo pay interest on the refunds.
MotoNovo did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. It said that Ms K had covered some 3,000 miles between March and August 
2019, so it would not be fair to refund the payments she had made in that time. It said too 
that she had delayed collection of the car from around the middle of July 2019, when the 
repairs were completed.  
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. I noted that MotoNovo appeared to 
accept that the car was not of satisfactory quality and that repairs should not have been 
necessary. I considered therefore what an appropriate remedy was, having in mind that 
repairs had by then been carried out at no cost to Ms K. 
I agreed with MotoNovo that it was not appropriate to require it to refund hire payments. 
Whilst Ms Ks enjoyment of the car had been impaired, she had been able to use for some of 
the time between March and August 2019. It would not be fair either to require MotoNovo to 
pay for the cars service  that was a normal cost of owning a car.
I did however suggest an increase in the level of compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience to which Ms K had been put. I suggested that a payment of £500 would be 
appropriate.
Neither Ms K nor MotoNovo accepted my provisional decision. Ms K said that MotoNovo had 
not been truthful in saying she had refused to collect the car. She said too that the mileage 
had been tampered with  a matter she had not previously thought important. She said that 
she had not been happy to allow the further repairs.
MotoNovo said that it thought that compensation of £500 was too high. Ms K had been 
without the car between 19 June and 16 July 2019, so it was fair that she should have a 
refund of one months hire; £150 would be enough to compensate her for the inconvenience 
she had suffered.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what both parties have said in response to my provisional decision. I do not think I can 
fairly conclude that the cars mileage was tampered with to make it appear that Ms K has 
had more use of it than was in fact the case. I do not believe either however that a refund of 
one months hire and £150 properly compensates Ms K for the inconvenience of a series of 
repairs and being without the car. 
Overall, I have not been persuaded that I should reach a different conclusion from that I set 
out in my provisional decision.   
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve this complaint, MotoNovo Finance Limited should pay Ms 
K £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman