DRN-2599537
The complaint
Mr K complains about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds (Assurant) decision to offer him 
a cash settlement for his laptop following his gadget insurance claim. He wants Assurant to 
offer him a like for like replacement laptop or to pay him the original value of the laptop. He 
also wants them to pay him compensation.  
What happened
Mr K took out gadget insurance with Assurant. And, one of the items covered by the policy 
was a laptop valued at £1,079. Mr K contacted Assurant to report a fault with his laptop. His 
claim was accepted so he sent his laptop to be fixed. After a couple of attempts at trying to 
repair the laptop, Assurant offered a cash settlement of £456.65.  
 
Mr K complained as he felt it was unfair Assurant were offering a cash settlement. Assurant 
responded and referred to the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy and said they couldnt 
source a replacement so they felt it was reasonable to offer a cash settlement. They 
accepted there had been an error and apologised that the laptop was still faulty after being 
returned on two occasions. They partially upheld the complaint and offered £50 for the 
inconvenience caused to Mr K.    
  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He thought Assurant hadnt acted unfairly in 
their handling of Mr Ks claim. And, he thought the £50 offer was reasonable for the laptop 
return issue. Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Assurants offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand 
Mr K will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Claim settlement 
Theres no dispute here that Mr Ks laptop is damaged and I can see the claim has been 
accepted by Assurant. So, Ive looked at whether Assurants offer of a cash settlement is fair 
and reasonable. My starting point is Mr Ks gadget insurance policy document. This sets out 
the terms and conditions and says, 
If your device is damaged or breaks down we will either:
repair the device, or
replace it with a device of the same make and model. If we cannot do this you will 
be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification. 
Then, under the heading Replacements, it says Where we replace the device the 
replacement may be a remanufactured (not brand new) device and In the event we are 
unable to provide a replacement we will contact you to discuss an alternative claim 
settlement. Later in the document, it also says the following, which applies to all claims, If 
we are unable to replace your device with the same make and model, we will contact you to 
discuss an alternative claim settlement.  
I can see from information provided by Assurant, the laptop is sent to them on three 
occasions. On the first occasion they carry out repairs and return it to Mr K. The laptop is 
sent back to them after Mr K tells them its still faulty. On the second occasion, Assurant 
cant identify a fault and return the laptop. Mr K then contacts them and explains theres still 
a problem and its again sent to Assurant. On this occasion, they decide to arrange 
settlement of the claim. Assurant say they couldnt provide a replacement due to stock 
unavailability so I can see they offer a cash settlement of £456.65. 
Taking this all into account, I think Assurant have acted in line with the terms and conditions. 
The information shows theyve tried to repair the laptop and, when this proved unsuccessful, 
theyve tried to source a replacement. They say they dont have the make and model of Mr 
Ks laptop in stock as its an item which has been discontinued. And, given they cant replace 
the laptop, theyve offered a cash settlement based on its market value. So, I dont think 
Assurant have acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
I note Mr K says hes not looking for a cash settlement and he wants a replacement device. I 
do understand Mr Ks reasons for this but my role is to look at whether Assurant have 
applied the policy fairly here. I can see theyve taken steps in line with the terms and 
conditions. And, while its unfortunate they dont have a replacement in stock, I cant say 
theyve acted unreasonably in offering an alternative  in this case, a cash settlement. Mr K 
says hes unable to buy a like for like device on the market for the sum being offered. I can 
see from information provided by Assurant theyve looked at three like for like replacement 
laptops and the offer theyve made is the average price of the three. Ive also been on an 
online sales platform and can see the cash settlement being offered would allow Mr K to 
purchase a like for like device. So, I think Assurant have followed a fair and reasonable 
process in arriving at the cash settlement figure and I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
I can see Mr K says, as an alternative to a replacement, Assurant should pay him the 
original value of the laptop. I cant see theres any terms in the policy which say Assurant will 
pay for the original value of a device. And, its general industry standards that an insurer will 
pay for the market value of an insured item if its damaged beyond repair. This is to put a 
consumer back in the position they wouldve been in had the damage not occurred. The fact 
that the terms and conditions refer to a replacement device not being brand new also 
supports this. The terms and conditions say, any replacement device, if one is available, 
may be remanufactured. So, the approach taken by Assurant here is similar in that the cash 
settlement isnt for the purchase of a brand-new laptop.   
Laptop return  
Assurant accept there has been an error which led to Mr K having to send his laptop in on 
three occasions. Theyve apologised and offered £50 compensation. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the frustration and inconvenience to Mr K. I can 
see from Assurants final response, they say theyve arranged for £50 to be paid to Mr K 
direct. Our investigator has spoken with Mr K who says he hasnt yet received this from 
Assurant. 
In summary, I dont think Assurant have acted unfairly or unreasonably in offering Mr K a 
cash settlement. I agree the service has fallen short in relation to the occasions Mr K had to 
return his laptop and I think the £50 already offered is fair and reasonable. 
My final decisionAssurant General Insurance Limited have already made an offer to pay £50 compensation to 
Mr K to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that, Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay £50 to Mr K, if they 
havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman