DRN-3970822
The complaint
Miss C complains about the information and service provided by Nationwide Building Society 
before her overdraft limit was due to reduce. 
What happened
Miss C had a graduate account and associated overdraft with Nationwide. In line with the 
account terms and condition, the overdraft limit reduced each year with a maximum limit of 
£1,000 in year three following graduation. In years one and two, Nationwide wrote to Miss C 
to give advance warning the overdraft limit was reducing. But it failed to do that in advance 
of the overdraft reduction that was due in late August 2022. 
On 15 August 2022 Miss C contacted Nationwide and explained she hadnt received a letter 
confirming its intention to reduce her overdraft limit. In addition, Miss C told Nationwide she 
could struggle to reduce the overdraft limit from £1,750 to £1,000 as shed just purchased a 
property. Miss C wanted to find out whether there was a way to reduce the overdraft limit in 
stages but has told us the agent confirmed that wasnt an option. Nationwides contact notes 
note the agent advised the overdraft limit was due to reduce on 27 August 2022. 
A few days later, Miss C spoke with another agent at Nationwide. They were unable to find a 
letter notifying Miss C of a reduction in her overdraft limit. And the agent explained they 
couldnt see anything that said Miss Cs overdraft limit would reduce on 27 August 2022 as 
claimed by the previous agent. 
When Miss C checked her bank account at the beginning of September 2022 she found it 
had been converted to a Flex Direct account with an overdraft limit of £1,000. That meant a 
deposit of £200 Miss C made around the same time was taken up and used to partially 
repay the outstanding balance above her new overdraft limit. Miss C was able to borrow the 
remaining funds from her mother and brought the account balance within the new overdraft 
limit on 15 September 2022. 
Miss C complained and Nationwide sent her a final response in October 2022. Nationwide 
agreed it had failed to send Miss C notification her overdraft limit was due to reduce in 
advance, as it had done in previous years. And Nationwide accepted Miss C had been given 
the wrong information when she called to query the next reduction in her overdraft limit. 
Nationwide upheld Miss Cs complaint and confirmed there was no impact to her credit file 
as a result of what had happened. Nationwide also paid Miss C £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Miss C asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I can see Miss C failed to receive advance warning of Nationwides intention to reduce her 
overdraft limit. And Nationwide accepts it shouldve written to Ms P in advance of the 
planned reduction. But the reduction was planned as part of the account terms and 
conditions. Miss C was aware that her overdraft limit would be reducing. So whilst I agree 
Nationwide failed to give Miss C prior warning, I havent been persuaded it acted unfairly by 
reducing the overdraft limit to £1,000 at the end of August 2022. 
Miss Cs told us Nationwide gave her the wrong information when she called. But when Miss 
C called on 15 August 2022 the agent she spoke with confirmed the overdraft limit was due 
to reduce on 27 August 2022. They asked Miss C to call back after that date to discuss an 
arrangement for balances over the agreed overdraft limit. But when Miss C called, the 
account was still operating within the limits at that time. So Im not persuaded it was unfair 
for Nationwides agent to ask her to call back after the overdraft limit had reduced in line with 
the terms to discuss arrangements to reduce the outstanding balance. 
Miss C spoke with another agent on 19 August 2022 but they mistakenly told her the 
overdraft limit wasnt due to reduce. I can understand why Miss C was surprised and 
unhappy when she checked her account at the beginning of September 2022 and found the 
new overdraft limit was £1,000. I agree that the information Miss C was given was wrong 
and the service provided shouldve been better. 
Miss C made a payment to her account for £200 at the beginning of September 2022 and 
has told us she intended to use these funds for living expenses in the month that followed. 
But because of the overdraft limit reduction, the funds were instead used to reduce the 
account balance. Whilst I understand the overdraft reduction was a surprise, the funds she 
paid into the account were used to repay her outstanding debt. So theres no direct financial 
loss to Miss C. 
In mid-September 2022 a payment of £575 was made to bring the account balance down to 
£1,000  the new overdraft limit. Miss Cs told us she had to borrow the money from her 
mother. But if Miss C hadnt reduced the overdraft balance, the account wouldve remained 
operating above the new limit. And that wouldve led to adverse information being recorded 
on Miss Cs credit file. In addition, Nationwide couldve discussed payment arrangements 
with Miss C, but any arrangement of that nature would also have been reported on Miss Cs 
credit file. Miss C took action to bring the account balance within the new overdraft limit 
which meant no adverse information was recorded on her credit file. 
Nationwide has since confirmed that because Miss Cs balance was brought within the 
agreed new overdraft limit in September 2022 no adverse information was recorded on her 
credit file. Im satisfied Miss Cs credit file hasnt been unfairly impacted by what happened. 
Miss Cs also complained about the way Nationwide responded to her Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR). But the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider technical breaches  
in terms of the way a DSAR is handled by a business. The Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) regulates how businesses handle information. If Miss C remains concerned 
about how Nationwide handled her DSAR, she has the option of referring the matter to the 
ICO. Nationwide accepts it provided incorrect information and that the service shouldve been 
better. Nationwide paid Miss C £75 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ive read and considered everything Miss Cs told us about how the problems she 
experienced impacted her. Having done so, Im satisfied the £75 settlement Nationwide has 
agreed fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused. To put it another way, 
the settlement Nationwide has agreed is very much in line with what I wouldve told it to pay 
had no offer been made. Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but as Im satisfied Nationwide dealt 
with her complaint fairly Im not telling it to increase the award or take any other action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that Nationwide Building Society had already agreed a settlement that is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman