DRN-4360783
The complaint
The trustees of a trust, which I will call T, complain that National Westminster Bank Plcs 
errors caused the trust to suffer investment losses.
What happened
T is a Small Self Administered Scheme, or SSAS. It has a professional trustee, which I will 
call B. One of its other trustees, Mr T, is also a beneficiary of the SSAS. Mr T brings this 
complaint to us on behalf of himself and his fellow trustees. 
Mr T told us:
T had two business accounts with NatWest. In July 2021, the trustees instructed 
NatWest to close those accounts. NatWest did not follow their initial instructions, and 
so the trustees sent new instructions in September 2021. The trustees had to 
exchange further correspondence with NatWest in order to ensure their instructions 
were carried out, and suffered inconvenience as a result.
The NatWest bank accounts were eventually closed in mid November 2021. That 
meant he could not invest Ts money as early as he wanted to do so, and the delays 
caused T to suffer a loss of around £36,000.
B and NatWest have both told him that they are not at fault, but clearly one or the 
other of them must be to blame.
NatWest told us:
The closure instructions it received in July and September 2021 were not signed in 
accordance with the mandate for Ts bank account, so it did not initially process 
them. It was however prepared to follow the closure instructions once it had carried 
out additional due diligence. One of the accounts was closed on 14 October 2021, 
and the other (which was a 35 Day Notice account) was closed on 18 November 
2021.
It believes there might be some confusion dating back to the opening of the accounts 
in February 2017. The signing rules were set as one signatory from group A and one 
signatory from group B. The closure instructions it received did include signatories 
from group A, but none from group B. 
For security reasons, it didnt provide full details of the signing rules in its initial 
responses to the closure requests. That is because its letters could have been 
intercepted, creating risk to the account.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint against NatWest, but did not recommend 
that NatWest make a payment. Briefly, she concluded:
She thought NatWest had made a mistake  but she thought that mistake was made 
in February 2017 when the accounts were set up, not in July/September 2021 when 
NatWest decided not to act on the closure requests.
The application form completed in February 2017 did not have enough space for the 
signatures of all of the people Ts trustees wanted to be able to give instructions on 
the accounts. The form gave specific instructions for what applicants should do in 
those circumstances, but those instructions were not followed.
If NatWest had reviewed the February 2017 application, it would have realised at that 
point that the trustees had not understood the relevant instructions. If NatWest had 
raised the issue back then, the trustees could have put things right well before 
anybody attempted to close the accounts. That would have meant the later closure 
instructions could have been processed without delay. 
However, she didnt think the delays in closing the NatWest bank accounts were the 
reason T suffered the investment losses Mr T claims. She noted that although the 
funds from NatWest accounts were available to the trustees in mid November 2022, 
they were not actually invested until February 2022. She didnt think NatWest could 
possibly be responsible for any delays experienced after November 2022.
In any event, she wasnt persuaded that T had suffered the £36,000 of loss Mr T 
claimed. Looking at the figures provided by Mr Ts independent financial adviser 
(IFA), she wasnt satisfied that the delays caused T to suffer a loss at all.
NatWest accepted our investigators conclusions, but the trustees did not. B said that it was 
unclear how she had come to the conclusion that the requirements of the form completed in 
February 2017 had not been adhered to. Mr T said he couldnt understand why the 
investigator had not recommended compensation, and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman.
I understand Mr T has also made a complaint to another ombudsman scheme in respect of 
Bs actions, but the Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider a complaint about 
NatWest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to further disappoint the trustees there is very little I can add 
to what our investigator has already said.
I agree with our investigator that the problem here occurred when the account was set up in 
February 2017. In July 2021, the trustees clearly had a different understanding from the 
bank as to the signing rules on the two accounts. But I wont address that issue in any detail 
in this decision, because I dont think it would be fair for me to award compensation 
regardless of whether (or when) NatWest made an error.
I consider that if everything had happened as it should  and nobody had made any 
mistakes at all in relation to the NatWest bank accounts  Ts money would have been 
available for investment around the middle of September 2021. The NatWest accounts were 
in fact closed by the middle of November 2021, but the cash they contained was not 
invested until February 2022. I cant see that there is anything that NatWest did (or failed to 
do) that could have caused any delays after the NatWest accounts were closed in November 
2021.I can also see that in January 2022, Mr Ts IFA estimated that T had suffered a loss of 
around £36,000 as a result of the delays in closing the NatWest account. However, that 
estimate was based on the assumption that those delays had prevented T from investing the 
whole of its assets, which at the time were worth approximately £2 million. The two NatWest 
bank accounts combined held less than £150,000  and it is difficult to see how NatWest 
could have done anything to prevent the rest of Ts money being invested.
In any event, Mr Ts IFA explained in another email that as at the middle of December 2021, 
the cost of buying the intended investment portfolio was 2.81% higher than it had been 3 
months earlier  and so a gain of £56,481 was lost. However, by the time investment was 
ultimately made in early February 2022, markets had fallen below where they were the 
previous September, and you were able to buy in at lower prices.
The IFA went on to explain that fortunately, markets fell back by the time monies [were 
invested in February 2022]  despite market conditions improving by the time investment 
could finally be made, it could easily have gone the other way making it a very anxious time 
unnecessarily. In addition, the 3-month delay to investing cash with [a named provider] 
equates to £115.50 in missed interest.
In the circumstances, my view is that in the end T did not suffer a financial loss as a result of 
the delays associated with closing Ts NatWest bank accounts. If everything had happened 
as it should, the trustees would have been able to invest Ts money in mid September 2021. 
They did not actually invest until February 2022  but by that time, the assets they intended 
to buy had fallen in value. The practical effect was that the delay meant they got more for 
their money.
Put another way, I think the banks actions meant that T was at risk of suffering a loss, but 
did not actually suffer one. I dont think it would be fair for me to make an award in respect of 
losses that T might have suffered but did not.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023. 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman