DRN-3822096
The complaint
Mr U complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund him for cash machine 
withdrawals.
What happened
Mr U noticed some cash machine withdrawals he didnt recognise and reported these to 
Halifax. Halifax responded and said it wouldnt refund them as theyd been made using 
Mr Us card and personal identification number (PIN).
Mr U complained and Halifax sent a final response, and it still wouldnt refund the payments. 
Halifax couldnt see how someone else had got hold of Mr Us card, he still had it in his 
possession. And Halifax didnt agree Mr Us card could have been copied.
Unhappy with this response, Mr U brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mr Us complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought the evidence showed Mr Us genuine card and PIN had been used.
And since Mr U hadnt lost his card, the investigator thought it was more likely Mr U had 
authorised the cash machine withdrawals. The investigator didnt think Mr Us card had been 
cloned or copied.
Mr U didnt agree with this outcome and said hed lost his bag some weeks before the cash 
machine withdrawal. In his bag was his card and PIN.
Mr U also said hed evidenced his card could be copied and there were signs up by one of 
the cash machines he uses to warn customers cards were being copied there. Mr U felt the 
investigator hadnt considered this point.
Mr U also said people he knows have received refunds in similar situations, so its unfair hes 
not getting a refund.
The investigator responded to say if Mr U had kept his card and PIN together, then hed 
been grossly negligent, so it was fair for Halifax to hold Mr U liable for the payments. Mr U 
asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule its fair for Halifax to hold Mr U liable for transactions where the technical 
evidence suggests he authorised them.
Ive looked at the evidence Halifax has sent in, and Im satisfied the transactions Mr Us 
disputed were made using his genuine card. The chip in the card was read and the correct 
PIN was used for each cash machine withdrawal.
Mr Us told us the other transactions on his account, mostly contactless card payments, were 
made by him. This means Mr U had his card in his possession through the period the 
disputed transactions took place.
So, although Ive considered what Mr U said about his bag and card going missing, I dont 
think its likely someone else was using Mr Us card. Mr U had genuine spend mixed in with 
the disputed transactions, so Im satisfied Mr U got his card back.
The other explanation is whoever had Mr Us bag was, after returning it, then taking and 
replacing the card without Mr U realising. I dont think this is likely in the circumstances.
Looking at the transactions Mr Us disputed, several are made soon after Mr U made 
genuine payments on his card. On 13 July 2022 Mr U used his card at 00.28 to make a 
purchase in a shop. At 00.38 £200 was withdrawn using a cash machine.
Mr Us disputed this £200 withdrawal. I think its unlikely someone was able to take Mr Us 
card in the ten minutes after the shop purchase to use the cash machine without his 
authority.
At 01.15 theres a further shop purchase. This means if someone was taking Mr Us card, 
theyd also have to then return it to him so he could use it again in the shop. I dont think its 
likely someone was able to do this, so I dont think someone else was using Mr Us card.
But Mr Us also said his card could have been cloned. Mr Us said he believes this is 
possible and said there were warning signs by a cash machine he uses.
Halifax considered this point, but because the chip on the card was read it doesnt think the 
card was copied. The general position on card copying, or cloning, is the magnetic swipe 
can be copied, but not the chip.
Ive considered what Mr Us said about his card being cloned, but I dont think this is a likely 
explanation for the disputed withdrawals. Again, Ive looked at the transactions that took 
place using Mr Us card.
Mr U used his card at 22.00 on 15 July 2022. This purchase was in a shop and Mr Us 
confirmed the payment was genuine. Mr Us disputed a £200 cash machine withdrawal at 
22.01, one minute later, and said he didnt carry out this withdrawal.
Ive looked at where the shop and the cash machine are, and theyre less than one minute 
walk from each other.
If Mr Us card was copied, or cloned, this would mean whoever had the copy of the card was 
also using cash machines close to where Mr U was making genuine, undisputed purchases. 
In the circumstances, I dont think this is very likely.
Also, Ive looked at the balance of Mr Us account during the period of disputed cash 
withdrawals. The first disputed withdrawal was on 11 July 2022, a withdrawal for £40.Mr U had over £1,500 in his account at this time, but whoever had the card only took £40. 
And the next disputed transaction doesnt take place until 13 July 2022.
If an unknown third party had a copy of Mr Us card, and the PIN, Id expect them to take as 
much money as they could and as quickly as they could. This unknown person doesnt know 
when Mr Us going to realise theres withdrawals he didnt make and cancel the card.
Instead, theres a small withdrawal on one day, nothing the next, then a £200 withdrawal the 
following day. And £200 wasnt the maximum amount available to withdraw each day. It 
seems odd, if Mr Us card was copied, that more money wasnt taken.
I dont believe, in the specific circumstances of Mr Us complaint, his card was copied. I think 
its more likely Mr U authorised these withdrawals. And because I think Mr U authorised 
them, its fair for Halifax to hold him liable for the withdrawals.
Mr Us explained he kept a record of his PIN in his bag, with his card, because he takes 
medication that affects his memory. In the circumstances I dont think this matters, as I dont 
believe it was anyone other than Mr U that made the disputed withdrawals.
And I cant comment on other peoples complaints or refunds from other banks. I have to 
decide Mr Us complaint on its individual merits, and I dont think Halifax needs to refund any 
of the payments Mr Us disputed.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman