DRN-2674373
The complaint
Mr P complains in his capacity as a director of and on behalf of a limited company A. Mr P 
complains that New Wave Capital Limited (New Wave) mis-sold a credit facility to A.
Mr P is represented in this case by a third party that I will call Ms W.
What happened
A entered into the agreement subject to this complaint in July 2018. Under the terms of the 
agreement New Wave undertook to provide A with running account credit with an initial 
credit limit of £6,000.
Following a complaint raised by Ms W, New Wave issued her with a final response letter 
(FRL). Under cover of this FRL New Wave said it didnt believe it had done anything wrong 
in advancing to A the credit that it did, when it did and on the terms that it did.
Ms W didnt agree, and the complaint was referred to our service for investigation.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it shouldnt be 
upheld. In summary he said he was satisfied that New Wave had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that it was appropriate to grant A running account credit 
with an initial credit limit of £6,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I would also like to make it clear that Im only considering in this 
decision Mr Ps complaint that New Wave shouldnt have provided A with running account 
credit with an initial credit limit of £6,000. Im not considering any other complaint Mr P, Ms 
W or A might have against New Wave.
New Wave has provided evidence to show that prior to providing running account credit to A, 
in July 2018, it  amongst other things:
checked various information filed with Companies House in respect of A including 
how long A had been trading
it had established that Ms W, from whom a personal guarantee was taken, was both 
a director and a shareholder of A
carried out a credit check on Ms W which returned nothing of any concern
Now given the amount of credit granted to A in July 2018, Im satisfied that the checks 
New Wave undertook were sufficient and appropriate. I would also add that I cant see that 
in granting the credit that it did in July 2018 New Wave breached any of its legal or 
regulatory obligations or that it acted outside what I consider to have been, at the relevant 
time, good industry practice.
I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed but taking everything into account Im satisfied that the 
credit facility provided to A in July 2018 wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman