DRN-3683608
The complaint
Mr M complains about advice given by Better Retirement Group Ltd (BRG).
In 2018, Mr M was provided advice by BRG to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension
scheme into a self-invested personal pension and to invest through SVS Securities acting as
a Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) arrangement.
Mr M says he isnt complaining about the advice to transfer out of his DB scheme, but that
BRG assessed his attitude to risk (ATR) incorrectly, and that the advice to invest through
SVS exposed him to too high a risk which has caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In January 2018, Mr M approached BRG, acting as his own introducer, seeking advice about
his pension.
BRG completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr s circumstances and objectives.
BRG also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be
highest medium.
BRG advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and invest the proceeds
through a DFM arrangement using SVS securities.
In January 2021, Mr M brought his complaint to this service after becoming aware of issues
with SVS, which had been placed in administration. We raised the issue with BRG on his
behalf. BRG didnt uphold his complaint.
Our investigator initially upheld Mr Ms complaint  but this was before this service had
received BRGs file. Once this was received, the investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint
again, with the new information and didnt think that it should be upheld. He thought that the
advice was suitable overall. And even if BRG had advised against transferring, he thought 
Mr M wouldve gone ahead anyway. The investigator didnt think BRG was responsible for
the loss Mr M had experienced as a result of the investments made by SVS.
Mr M disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. Ive 
previously issued a provisional decision on Mr Ms complaint, explaining why I didnt think it 
should be upheld, but providing some more detail as to why. 
I asked for any further comments to be made by 2 September 2022, but neither party has 
responded to my provisional decision  so I see no reason to depart from my findings made 
there, and will now issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Having 
done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given
by the investigator.
I know that this will be disappointing to Mr M, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should say that Mr M has explained to this service that he isnt complaining about
the advice to transfer out of his DB scheme  but rather that BRG assessed his ATR
incorrectly, which led to him being advised to place his investment through a DFM with SVS.
Mr M says that this investment was too high a risk for him, and that he has lost out financially
as a result of the way his investment has been handled by SVS.
Attitude to risk
BRG categorised Mr Ms ATR as highest medium  so Ive looked at how BRG has
determined this, along with what I know about Mr Ms personal circumstances.
In its fact find, I can see that Mr M confirmed the following;
Mr M was willing to accept risk with his investment.
Mr M was prepared to accept a loss to the value of his investment, either during the 
term or at maturity.
Mr M was willing to accept a larger degree of risk in exchange for the possibility of a 
higher pension in retirement.
Mr M wanted flexibility at retirement to control the way benefits are paid and wished 
to retain the flexibility to decide depending upon his circumstances at the time.
Mr M was prepared to accept potentially significant fluctuations (+/- 20%) in the value 
of his investment.
Mr M was willing to accept higher volatility for a chance to maximise the return of his 
portfolio and to outperform inflation over time.
Mr M considered himself an experienced investor and had made his own investments 
previously as well as having a career in finance.
I can also see that Mr M acted as own introducer when he approached BRG to discuss his
pension.
Taking this into account I think that the answers Mr M provided to BRG were in line with
what Id expect to see from someone who had a higher than average attitude to risk, which
was commensurate with his experience of investments.
However, along with this, I also need to consider Mr Ms capacity for loss  and if this had an
overall impact on the way his attitude to risk was categorised. I can see that Mr Ms DB 
pension scheme accounted for a significant part of his retirement planning  and that he had 
significant debts. So, I dont think that he had a large capacity for loss, and that its likely that 
the loss of his investments would have had an impact on his standard of living in retirement.
With this in mind, I think that BRG was incorrect in its overall assessment of Mr Ms ATR 
and it should have categorised it as balanced or medium instead. But even taking this into
account, I dont think that the recommendation of investing through a DFM with SVS wasunsuitable for Mr M.
Recommendation for use of a DFM through SVS securities
When considering the use of a DFM arrangement, the regulator, the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) has made clear that amongst other matters, firms need to take into account
issues such as:
Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a DFM 
ranging all the way up to bespoke arrangements for clients with larger funds.
Investors knowledge and experience: The FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of the 
underlying investments the DFM might make.
Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs cost of the arrangement were explained 
to the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) understand.
The regulator was clear there was a positive obligation on the adviser to carry out this
research, rather than supplying the DFM with a risk rating and hoping the investments made
would be suitable for them. As the adviser was recommending DFM as a solution to their 
clients needs, that meant looking under the bonnet.
So, Ive thought carefully about what this means for Mr M.
BRG would be charging Mr M a 4% transfer fee, and a 1% annual advice fee. There was
also a SIPP charge of £250 plus VAT. On top of this, the DFM would charge Mr M a 1%
annual management charge (AMC). Given that an AMC of 1% was not unusual for 
investments placed on standard platforms, I dont think the extra costs incurred by using the
DFM were excessive. And given that he had a sizeable fund to invest of around 
£126,633.00, I think he couldve benefitted from the expertise a DFM could provide him with.
Im also mindful that Mr M had significant experience of investing and also had a higher than
average degree of knowledge due to his career in financial services.
The client review form provided by BRG showed that Mr M had previously invested, without
taking financial advice, in pensions, stock and shares, and collective investments, and also
previously traded on the stock market, and he also reviewed his investments himself at least
every three months.
So, given Mr Ms own financial experience, I think that he wouldve been aware of how a
DFM worked, and what to expect. For this reason, I dont think the recommendation for Mr M
to invest through a DFM was unsuitable for him.
It seems to me that Mr Ms loss (and his reason for bringing the complaint) is attributed to
the use of SVS specifically. There were irregularities in the investments made and SVS has
since been placed in administration. BRG says that it couldnt have anticipated this and
carried out extensive due diligence before recommending its clients use SVS, of which there
were many.
BRG has provided documentation to demonstrate the due diligence measures it had in
place, and detailed information about the checks it completed in its dealings with SVS. It is of
course unfortunate that SVS strayed beyond its mandate  but I dont think that I can hold
BRG responsible for what happened here. The mismanagement did not become apparent
until mid-2019, despite ongoing efforts of BRG, after which the relationship between BRGand SVS broke down and SVS entered into administration. And I dont think that BRG 
couldve foreseen what was to happen.
I acknowledge that BRG may not have correctly assessed Mr Ms ATR  it should have been
recorded as balanced. But even if BRG had told SVS that Mr Ms risk profile was 
balanced, this wouldnt have affected the recommendation to invest through SVS. Instead,
Mr Ms funds wouldve been invested in line with a balanced portfolio. And I think it is
important to note here that the irregularities affected all customers, not just those invested in
higher risk portfolios. So, even if BRGs assessment of Mr Ms ATR had been correct, this 
wouldnt have affected how SVS ultimately acted. And I think Mr M would most likely be in
the same position he is in now.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)
Although I dont uphold  this complaint against BRG, Mr M may be able to explore the 
possibility of making a claim against SVS securities through the FSCS  and I would urge 
him to contact them directly to discuss this matter in the hope of recouping some
of his losses.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman