DRN-3369561
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited gave to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr D to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ds.
Similarly, a law firm replied to Mr Ds complaint on Acumens behalf. But, for simplicity, I will 
refer to the law firms comments as being Acumens.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr D was concerned about what his employers announcement meant for the security of his 
pension. So, he contacted Acumen for advice. Mr D met with it three times in total between 
August 2017 and January 2018. Acumen gathered information about Mr Ds entitlement 
under his current DB scheme and obtained a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report. It 
completed a fact-find with Mr D and an assessment of his risk appetite. Amongst other 
things it noted that:
Mr D was aged 49, married with two financially independent adult daughters.
He was employed and his yearly annual income was around £37,000.
His home was valued at £170,000 with no outstanding mortgage.
He had £9,000 in savings and had no outstanding debts.
He had two personal pensions, one worth around £33,000 and a second with a value 
of around £73,000, although Acumen referred to this value as around £72,000 in its 
suitability report.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
He was a deferred member of the BSPS and was also paying into a money purchase 
pension sponsored by his employer. Together he and his employer paid contributions 
of around 16% of his yearly salary into that pension.
He was a deferred member of another DB scheme from his former employer. That 
would pay him an income of £3,948 a year at age 65. It had a cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of £70,461. 
Mr Ds wife worked part-time earning around £6-7,000 a year.
Both Mr & Mrs D were expecting to receive around £70,000 inheritance each at some 
unknown point in the future.
Mr Ds current BSPS scheme had a CETV of £169,445. It would pay him a yearly 
pension of £10,878 at age 65.
The growth rate required (the critical yield) to match the benefits from the BSPS 
pension was 8.5% at age 65.
The PPF would pay him a yearly income of around £9,100 at age 65  although 
Acumen later gave this figure as £8,314. The critical yield required to match those 
benefits was 5.4%.
Mr D would like to retire at 58  although Acumen gave this age as 57 in its suitability 
report.
He wanted to access £20,000 from the pension at age 55 towards each of his 
daughters weddings.
His desired income in retirement was £1,500 per month.
His attitude to risk was recorded as lowest medium.
At the final meeting between Mr D and Acumen, in January 2018, on Acumens 
recommendation Mr D signed the relevant forms to transfer his DB schemes benefits to a 
personal pension. The next day Acumen produced a financial planning report setting out 
the reasons for its recommendation. Such documents are commonly known as suitability 
reports; so I will use that term when referring to it within this decision. Amongst other things 
Acumen said:
It recommended that Mr D should transfer the funds from his DB schemes to a 
named personal pension. 
The BSPS2 would only go ahead if it met certain qualifying conditions. If those 
conditions weren't met and Mr D had opted to move to the BSPS2 then his funds 
would automatically be transferred to the PPF. If that happened he would be unable 
to transfer out of it. 
Critical yields were unlikely to be met from a personal pension and as such from an 
investment perspective a transfer wasn't feasible. 
Mr Ds desire for flexible access to his pension and the higher lump sum death 
benefits, which were better from a personal pension, were more important to Mr D.
A personal pension would allow Mr D to take his benefits at any time after reaching 
55 years old.
He could take 25% of his fund as tax free cash (TFC).
A personal pension could sustain his desired level of income in retirement beyond his 
life expectancy.
Acumen subsequently arranged for Mr Ds DB benefits to be transferred to two separate 
funds within one account managed by the named personal pension provider.
Mr D complained to Acumen in August 2021. In brief he said he didnt think that its advice to 
transfer out of his DB scheme was suitable as it wasn't in his best interests. 
Acumen sent a detailed reply to the complaint in October 2021. Amongst other things it said 
it wasnt required to guarantee or ensure, particularly with the benefit of hindsight, that the transfer would prove to be suitable for Mr D. Instead it was required to exercise due skill and 
care to allow Mr D to make an informed decision, and to take reasonable steps to satisfy 
itself its advice was suitable. It said it believed it had done so. It said it couldnt have advised 
Mr D to opt into the BSPS2 as at that time it was only a consultation subject and he had no 
entitlement to join it. It said if Mr D had opted in to the BSPS2, and it didnt go ahead, his 
BSPS pension funds would have moved into the PPF. It said it had provided the appropriate 
suitability assessment, information, advice, comparisons and risk warnings. And as Mr D 
wanted the option of retiring early and the ability to pass on the capital value of his pension 
on his death, its advice to transfer was suitable for him.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She upheld the 
complaint and required Acumen to pay compensation including a sum of £300 to address 
the trouble and upset Mr D experienced because of the disruption to his retirement planning. 
Amongst other things she said that while Mr D was concerned about the security of his 
BSPS pension, Acumen should have given him reassurances about the protections provided 
by the BSPS2 and the PPF. Mr D had options, other than transferring from his DB scheme, if 
he wanted to leave a legacy on his death to his family. Given the high critical yields and the 
effect of fees on the personal pension Mr D was likely to be worse off by transferring out of 
his DB scheme. And the benefits available from a personal pension didnt justify the transfer.
Acumen didnt reply to our investigators assessment of the complaint so it was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and replying to it Mr D and Acumen have made a number of 
detailed points. I've considered everything on file. But, in this decision, I dont intend to 
address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
points at the heart of Mr Ds complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Mr D has also complained about Acumens advice to transfer funds from his other pensions. 
But, as we are looking at that complaint under a separate reference number, I dont intend to 
comment on the merits of that complaint within this decision.
Ive taken into account the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumens actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the investigator.
Acumens said that COBS 9 required it to use reasonable skill and care to ensure that Mr D 
had enough information to make an informed decision. And to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the advice was suitable for Mr D without ensuring that it would prove suitable. But, 
while I agree Acumen was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr D was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1), additional regulations also 
apply to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. In particular advising firms are required 
to start with an assumption that a transfer from a DB scheme is unsuitable (COBS 19.1.6). 
So, Acumen should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was 
in Mr Ds best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in his best interests.
Uncertainty around the future of the BSPS or the BSPS2 and the financial viability of a 
transfer
The BSPS closed in March 2017 and at the time that Mr D first approached Acumen the 
situation had been evolving for some months. There was some widespread concern about 
what moving pensions to the PPF meant for BSPS members. Its also well-known that this 
was a period of uncertainty for people in Mr Ds situation. But this only serves to emphasise 
the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the 
need for suitable advice. So in order to recommend that Mr D should transfer out of his DB 
scheme Acumen needed to be able to clearly demonstrate that doing so was in his best 
interests.
I dont dispute that when Mr D approached Acumen there was still the possibility that his 
pension could move to the PPF. And Acumen has argued that the BSPS2 may not have 
gone ahead. But I think Acumen overestimated the chance of the BSPS2 not happening.
Acumen began gathering evidence from Mr D in August 2017. It didnt conclude its advice 
process until January 2018. But, some months earlier, in May 2017, the PPF announced that 
the terms of the RAA had been agreed. Under the announced plans, Mr Ds employer 
agreed to set up and sponsor the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding 
and size being satisfied. The Pensions Regulator approved the RAA on 11 August 2017. 
And the confirmation that Mr Ds employer had made the required payment for it to go ahead 
was announced on 11 September 2017. 
Indeed by the time that Acumen made its final recommendation, in January 2018, the BSPS 
trustees had provided details of the BSPS2 to scheme members. But, while Acumen has 
provided a general overview of how the benefits from the BSPS2 compared with the PPF, it 
hasnt provided a comparison of the actual BSPS2 figures applicable to Mr D. However, I'm 
aware that the information the trustees would have given to Mr D said the BSPS2 would 
offer the same income benefits as the BSPS but the yearly increases would be lower. Of 
course, it was still a possibility that the BSPS2 might not have gone ahead, but I still think 
Acumen should have factored in the benefits available to Mr D through the BSPS2 when it 
gave its advice, so that he was able to make an informed decision. It didnt do that.Further the fact-find and suitability report said that Mr Ds preference was to retire at either 
age 57 or 58. I think reference to age 57 is a typing error as its fact-find and cashflow models 
refer to early retirement at 58. Acumen said its recommendation would allow him the 
flexibility to achieve that aim. But it provided very little comparison in its reports against the 
benefits from the BSPS, the BSPS2 or the PPF about what Mr D could receive from those 
schemes if he decided to retire early. 
Acumens TVAS provided projected retirement income rates and the critical yields to match 
those for both the BSPS and the PPF at age 65. But those projections are only if Mr D took 
his full pension and dont show how the figures would change if Mr D opted to take TFC at 
the date of retirement. And in order for Mr D to make a fully informed decision it should have 
done that.
Also the TVAS said that Mr D hadn't expressed an interest in retiring early. But that wasn't 
the case. As I've said above Mr D had said he might wish to retire at age 58. But the TVAS 
didnt provide any analysis or comparison about what Mr D could expect to receive from the 
DB schemes or the PPF if he chose to retire early. And in order to ensure that he had all the 
information he needed to make an informed decision about what he wanted to do with his 
pension benefits, that was something that I think Acumen should have provided. 
Thats particularly the case as the PPF was known to provide more generous benefits for 
those retiring earlier than the BSPS, particularly where TFC was taken  at least in the short 
term. But I've seen no evidence that Acumen provided an analysis of the benefit comparison 
between the BSPS, the BSPS2, the personal pension and the PPF if Mr D chose early 
retirement. And without that analysis I don't think it gave Mr D enough information on which 
he could reach a fully informed opinion of what was in his best interests.
Further I think its worth noting that Acumen quoted an incorrect figure for Mr Ds yearly 
pension entitlement from the PPF at age 65. The TVAS provides what Mr D could receive 
from the PPF broken down into his entitlement from two different periods (when pensions 
rules changed which affected the calculation of potential PPF benefits). So Mr Ds full 
entitlement from the PPF would be the combination of those two figures, which was around 
£9,100 a year. But Acumens suitability report only quotes Mr Ds entitlement to one of those 
periods of £8,314. So the figure it gave him wasnt right.
It follows that I dont think Acumen communicated with Mr D in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. In fact it could be argued that Acumen didnt exercise the required skill and 
care to give Mr D enough information to make an informed decision. And, by failing to gather 
and present all the information Mr D needed, its likely that Acumen was in breach of COBS 
rule 9.2.6. That rule says that firms should not make a recommendation to clients where it 
doesn't have all the necessary information to assess the suitability of its recommendation. 
And I'm not convinced that Acumen had all the information it needed when giving Mr D 
advice. 
Looking at the information Acumen did provide says that the relevant critical yield at age 65 
for Mr D taking a full pension from the BSPS was 8.5%. The critical yield required to match 
the benefits provided through the PPF at age 65 was 5.4%. While Acumen didnt, incorrectly 
in my view, present the BSPS2 figures, even without those we can assume the lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 would have likely decreased the critical yields compared to the 
BSPS. But, I think those would have been higher than the critical yield matching the PPF 
benefits at age 65.
Acumen gave its advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate, published by this Service, closest to when Acumen gave its 
advice which I can refer to was for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.3% a year 
for 15 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also 
remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. And its notable that the 
discount rate would drop to 3.5% when adjusted for Mr D retiring at age 58. Ive taken these 
figures into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds attitude 
to risk and also the term to retirement.
There would be little point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the 
lowest critical yield was 5.4%, which was based on Mr D taking a full pension through the 
PPF at age 65. The critical yield if Mr D took the same benefits through the BSPS at age 65 
was 8.5%. So, if Mr D were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at age 65 the 
critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer to 8.5%. And 
its notable that critical yields were likely to be even higher for Mr D taking early retirement as 
the invested funds would have less time to grow and so would need to do so at a higher rate 
in order to pay retirement benefits for longer. And given the discount rate of 4.3% and the 
regulators middle projection rate of 5%, I think Mr D was most likely to receive benefits of a 
lower overall value than those provided by the PPF and the BSPS2 if he transferred to a 
personal pension, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk.
Indeed its notable that Acumen acknowledged in its suitability report that the critical yields 
were unlikely to be matched. Similarly it said that, from an investment perspective, a transfer 
wasnt feasible. So Acumen recognised when giving advice that the transfer wasnt 
financially viable when compared with Mr Ds expected benefits from the DB scheme. So for 
that reason alone I don't think a recommendation to transfer was in his best interests.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And 
Acumen has argued that, as a result of its recommendation, Mr D could achieve his other 
objectives. So I've gone on to consider whether Acumen has clearly demonstrated that the 
advice to transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. 
When doing so Ive been mindful that Acumens role was to find out what Mr Ds wants and 
needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr D wanted without appropriate 
analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so, in order to ensure its recommendation 
was in his best interests.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems the main reason Acumen recommended Mr D transfer was for the flexibility it 
offered Mr D. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr D needed to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement.
Acumen said that by transferring to a personal pension Mr D could retire at age 58 and 
expect his funds to last him until he was 116 years old. It said that assumed that Mr D would 
take TFC in three lumps sums of £20,000 at age 55, £25,000 at age 60 and £25,000 at age 
65. Its not clear why Acumen chose those three ages or those amounts for Mr D to take 
TFC. I note Mr D said he might need funds to pay for his daughters weddings, at some point 
in the future, although he didnt know when that was likely to be. So it appears that Acumen has picked three dates somewhat arbitrarily to show that Mr D would be able to take lump 
sums from his pension funds which he couldnt take from his DB scheme.
Its true that Mr D couldnt take his DB scheme benefits in the same flexible manner as from 
a personal pension. Although he could choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, 
Mr D had to take those benefits at the same time. Similarly, while Mr D could have chosen to 
take his DB scheme benefits early, those would have been at a reduced rate. Although, as 
I've said above, Acumens advice didnt ever set out exactly how much that reduction would 
be or if Mr D could benefit from transferring his funds to the PPF. But, in any event, Im not 
persuaded that Mr D had any concrete need to take TFC and retire early, or to vary his 
income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a 
genuine objective.
Further, Acumens point ignores the funds that Mr D would have from other sources. At the 
time that Acumen gave its advice Mr D had two personal pension plans worth in the region 
of £106,000. And if those had modest net growth at 2% a year (the regulator's lowest 
projection rate at that time), then those would have been worth around £124,200 in total by 
the time Mr D reached age 58.
Similarly Mr D and his employer were contributing a sum to a money purchase pension 
scheme. There are contradictory figures on file about the actual level of the contributions. 
Acumen has recorded that Mr D contributed 8% of his salary and his employer 10%, which 
would be a total of 18%. But also recorded that the contribution level was 16%. Mr Ds 
evidence to us was that the total contributions were 17%. But, assuming contributions at 
their lowest rate of 16%, which didnt ever change or increase, and that those grew at a net 
rate of 2%, the fund could be worth around £51,900 by the time he reached 58. Therefore, 
Mr Ds three personal pension funds combined could have provided a fund of over £176,000 
by the time Mr D reached 58 years of age. And he could have used those funds to enable 
him to retire early or pay for his daughters weddings. 
In other words, at 58 Mr D could have taken an income of £1,500 a month  £18,000 a year 
 for the next seven years from his three personal pensions and still have had £50,000 left 
over to contribute towards his daughters weddings - should he need to. And that would be 
without considering Mr Ds wifes income, his savings or any income from his former 
employers DB scheme. And taking income from other sources would have allowed him to 
leave his BSPS funds untouched. That way the schemes early retirement factors wouldnt 
have come into play. Alternatively, Mr D could have accessed funds from the BSPS2 at 
some time before he turned 65 and in that instance the BSPS2 schemes early retirement 
factors would have less impact on his guaranteed income at the time he decided to take it. 
So I don't think Mr Ds only solution for retiring early from his current job was to transfer his 
funds away from the DB scheme.
Acumen provided a cashflow model which it says shows Mr D would have been able to retire 
early and meet his income needs despite the high critical yields. But I think its worth noting 
that some of Acumens assumptions in its models dont stand up to close scrutiny. For 
example Acumen assumed that the named personal pension would provide investment 
returns of at least 5% a year, every year. But, given the volatilities of the market and Mr Ds 
low-medium attitude to risk, a consistent return at that level seems unlikely. And, if there was 
a sustained period of poor performance then there was a very real chance that Mr Ds fund 
would grow at a much slower rate or could suffer losses. And in those circumstances Mr Ds 
funds could be depleted earlier than Acumen projected. 
Similarly, Acumen assumed that the total charges that would be deducted from the named 
personal pension would be 1.5% a year or less. But the named personal pension provider 
gave Mr D an illustration in January 2018 which showed that his fund charges (including investment expenses) would be 1.68% a year. Thats because 70% of the fund had a 
charge of 0.84% which is (0.84 x 0.7) 0.59% of the total fund. And the remaining 30% had a 
charge of 0.79%, which is (0.79 x 0.3) 0.24% of the total fund. On top of that there was a 
platform charge of 0.35% of the total fund. And Acumen also added an adviser charge of 
0.5% a year. So, in total the fees were likely to be 1.68% a year not the 1.5% a year Acumen 
had assumed. And an increase in fees of that nature  over the timespan of Mr Ds 
investment  could reduce the return. For example, the difference in return between fees of 
1.5% and 1.68% on an initial investment of £170,000, growing at a gross 5% over a period of 
15 years, would be a reduction of around £7,340. 
Acumen also assumed that Mr D would maintain his income at a set level and not increase it 
throughout his lifetime. And, in order to do so, once Mr D began receiving his state pension 
at age 67 of around £670 a month, Acumen assumed he would reduce the income he took 
from his personal pension by around £400 a month. In other words, in order to be able to 
sustain the flexible access to his funds Acumen was recommending, Mr D would need his 
state pension to top up his income when that became payable. Its also notable that 
Acumens financial model doesn't include any increases for inflation, so  in real terms  
Acumens model would see a reduction in Mr Ds spending power as inflation reduced the 
value of his pension pot. In contrast the benefits from his DB scheme, from whichever 
source he took it, was index linked and would continue to increase for the rest of his life. 
That income would be bolstered once his state pension became payable. But he would need 
to give up that guaranteed escalation by accepting Acumens recommendation. 
However, I've noted that, Mr D told Acumen that while he would like to retire at age 58, that 
may change in the future. And, as I've said above, like most of us, I can understand why 
Mr D would want to retire early at around age 58. But, for most people, early retirement 
means a significant drop in income. And that would dramatically reduce most individuals 
spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced with that prospect at an early 
retirement age, most people choose not to retire. Instead they opt to continue working to 
support their current and future lifestyle options. And that seems to be a more likely prospect 
for Mr D. But theres no evidence that Acumen seriously challenged Mr Ds objective of early 
retirement at age 58. So I dont think it met its obligations to challenge his objectives in light 
of what he would be giving up.
Mr D was still more than eight years away from 58. So he had no need to make an urgent 
decision to transfer out of his DB scheme as he could have opted to move into the BSPS2. 
And, if he still felt that he wanted to retire when he reached 58, and thought that the income 
from the BSPS2 wasnt enough for his needs at that time, he could have considered 
transferring his DB benefits to another scheme at that point. But that wasnt a decision he 
needed to make when he was still only 49 years old. But it doesn't appear that Acumen put 
that option to him.
As I've said above, at the time of Acumens advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. 
Although I think the communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic 
that the scheme operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr D had opted 
into the BSPS2 and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. 
At age 65 Mr D would have been entitled to a pension of almost £9,100 per year from the 
PPF. This was likely lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont 
think it would have been substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to 
Acumens recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr D wouldve had income from his other 
personal pensions and his other DB scheme to draw on until his state pension became 
payable. That is as well as his wifes pension to supplement their household income. So, I 
think Mr D couldve met his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and 
hed had to move with it to the PPF.Acumen said Mr D wanted £1,500 a month in todays terms, meaning that in reality his 
income at retirement would need to be a lot higher to produce the equivalent of £1,500 a 
month. But I dont think that demonstrates that it was in Mr Ds best interests to transfer his 
DB funds to a personal pension. As Ive set out above, Mr D was unlikely to obtain benefits 
of the same value at retirement by transferring. So, I still think Mr D had a better chance of 
achieving his target retirement income of £1,500 per month by opting into the BSPS2 (the 
benefits under which were guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on investment 
growth in a personal pension. He then could have used his other pension funds and savings 
to top up his income as and when it was needed.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr D could have met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF at age 65. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to 
transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt need.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. But in 
transferring out of his DB scheme Mr D was essentially giving up a guaranteed, index linked, 
increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum for his wife and family that 
they may not need for many years to come. And by that time, the fund could have been 
depleted by Mr Ds withdrawals from it in the meantime.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr D 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme or the PPF would 
have been useful to his wife if Mr D died before her. And I dont think Acumen made the 
value of these benefits clear enough to Mr D. They were guaranteed and escalated  the 
spouses pension would also be calculated as if no TFC had been taken under the BSPS2, 
had Mr D decided to take TFC. Further, it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
Acumen said Mr Ds pension fund would be depleted by age 116 if he retired at 58. So Mr D 
might have thought that guaranteed a significant lump sum for his wife and family on his 
death. But that was based on a consistent investment return of 5% each year. And as I've 
indicated above, if the fund grew by less than that sum, or suffered losses, then there would 
be less available as a death benefit. And the flaws in Acumen's models I've referred to 
above would also have decreased the amount left as a death benefit.
Further, the fund would reduce as Mr D drew down money from it. And if Mr D drew down 
heavily from it in the early years of his retirement, then those deductions would reduce the 
lump sum benefit available in the event of his death. And the fund would continue to deplete 
unless left untouched. 
If Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on investment 
returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Acumen could have 
explored life insurance with him. Mr D already had a significant death in service benefit 
through his employer. Its also notable that his home was mortgage free and would in itself 
provide a legacy to his family. But if he wanted an extra sum to cover his retirement years, 
that wasnt tied into his property then he could have taken extra cover out on a whole of life 
basis. But it doesn't appear that Acumen discussed this with him. And to my mind, the fact that life insurance wasnt explored further suggests to me that greater death benefits wasnt 
a genuine objective for Mr D, instead, it was simply a consequence of transferring his 
pension.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But Acumen wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Acumen was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr D 
about what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots 
like Mr Ds DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. And 
ultimately, I dont think the advice Acumen gave to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring to a 
personal pension Mr D was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when Acumen gave its advice, but I think 
it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr D had at least eight years to 
his preferred retirement age and 15 years to the schemes normal retirement age. So his 
needs in retirement could have changed in the meantime. And by opting into the BSPS2 
Mr D would have kept the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if 
he needed to. Also, Mr D was married and his wifes pension in the BSPS2 would be set at 
50% of his pension at the date of death. This would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement (if Mr D chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2 than PPF. So, I think Acumen 
should have advised Mr D to opt into the BSPS2.
Acumen says that Mr D made an informed choice to transfer. But for the reasons given 
above I think there were a number of gaps in Acumens advice process and I dont think it 
exercised reasonable skill and care to ensure that Mr D had enough information available to 
him to make an informed decision. 
In any event, I've gone on to consider whether Mr D would have gone ahead with the 
transfer anyway if it wasnt for the flaws in Acumens advice. But I'm not persuaded he would 
have done so. 
Thats because, Mr Ds BSPS pension accounted for a significant portion of his retirement 
provision at the time. So, if Acumen had provided him with clear advice against transferring 
out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests and that he would likely 
be worse off as a result of doing so, I think he would have accepted that advice. Im also not 
persuaded Mr Ds concerns about the future of the DB scheme was so great that he would 
have gone against the advice he was given, particularly if Acumen had explained the BSPS2 
was likely to be going ahead.
It follows that I don't think Acumens advice to Mr D to transfer out of his DB scheme was 
suitable for him. And I think it should have advised Mr D to opt into the BSPS2 instead. So, 
I think Acumen should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And, as this matter has been a 
source of distress and inconvenience for Mr D, I think Acumen should pay him £300 to 
address that.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document -
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. But, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it 
could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA published a policy statement on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules 
and guidance - https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will 
come into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. 
Mr D said he would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance/rules. So, 
I consider its fair that Acumen calculates Mr Ds redress in line with new guidance and rules 
when they come into effect. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme and transferred his benefits to the BSPS2. 
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr D.
Acumen must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon 
as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9). 
For clarity, while Mr D said he wanted ideally to retire at age 58, hes told us that he has no 
plans to retire at present. So, compensation should be based on him taking benefits at the 
schemes normal retirement age of 65. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly once any new 
guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Acumen has 
received notification of Mr Ds acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date any changes to DB 
transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Acumen to pay Mr D.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Acumen deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Acumen should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Acumen should also pay Mr D £300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Acumen should provide Mr D with a breakdown of its redress calculation in a clear and 
simple to follow format.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above 
on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman