DRN-3778939
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Equifinance Limiteds decision to lend to him was irresponsible. This 
is because it didnt have concerns about the fact that he gambled at the time the application 
was approved, and it didnt complete any further checks for changes in his circumstances 
when there was a delay in the advance being paid out. He has told us that in the three 
months between provision of evidence about his finances, and the advance being made, he 
gambled excessively, failed to make loan and mortgage payments and was in severe 
financial difficulty and experiencing mental health issues. 
In settlement of the complaint, Mr B wants Equifinance to refund to him all the fees and 
interest charged, and commission incurred.
What happened
In the spring of 2021 Mr B wanted to take out additional borrowing for home improvements 
and approached an independent mortgage broker for advice. It looked into the market and 
recommended a loan with Equifinance and an illustration for the loan was produced on 
19 May 2021.
An application was sent to Equifinance for a loan of £39,495, including fees, over 25 years 
on 8 June 2021. The information provided with the application indicated that Mr B had two 
credit cards with outstanding balances totalling £892 and a repayment mortgage. Alongside 
the application he provided an annual bank statement ending as at 3 May 2021 and an 
accountants statement confirming his income. 
Equifinance indicated that it would accept the application, but wanted evidence of the 
removal of the joint property owner from the property title before it could progress. 
Confirmation that an application to the Land Registry had been made was provided to 
Equifinance on 9 June 2021, but it was not until 13 July 2021 that the confirmation that the 
application had been successful was provided. The loan offer was issued to Mr B the same 
day. He accepted the offer and the advance was made two days later.
In the autumn of 2021 Mr B complained to Equifinance about his loan. He said he thought 
hed been sold a re-mortgage not a second charge loan. In addition, he said that the loan 
repayments were unaffordable, and this should have been obvious at the time. He pointed 
out that during the delay between the application being accepted and advanced, his financial 
situation had deteriorated.
Equifinance sent its response to Mr B on 8 December 2021. It confirmed details of the 
application it had received and the checks it had done to establish affordability. Equifinance 
said it was satisfied that the loan had been affordable based on the information it was 
provided with by Mr B, his accountant and broker. In relation to the time that had lapsed 
between the mortgage being approved and the advance, Equifinance pointed out these 
things happened on 9 June 2021 and 15 July 2021 respectively, so months hadnt passed. It 
explained that as there hadnt been a significant amount of time between the loan approval 
and the advance, it wouldnt request any further information, unless Mr B had made it aware 
there were foreseeable changes. 
The property the loan was secured on was sold in early 2022 and Mr B referred the 
complaint to this service shortly thereafter. When he did so, he explained that hed had a 
gambling problem at the time of the sale, which had been evident from his bank statements, 
and so the lending was irresponsible. 
When Equifinance provided its file of papers, it confirmed that the bank statement it had 
been provided with did not include any evidence of transactions with gambling organisations 
and it had been unaware that Mr B had a gambling problem.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. He provided various email conversations between 
himself, and the Land Registry or his broker, which he considered showed rules being bent 
and loopholes exploited to guarantee his credit, despite him not ever being in a position to 
afford the loan.
The investigator considered the information, but didnt change his conclusions. He 
highlighted that the email conversations were had with third parties, including Mr Bs broker, 
and Equifinance was not responsible for their content. Mr B then commented on the 
information the broker had before the application, including his gambling. He also repeated 
that three months wasnt an acceptable time period for his application to have taken to 
process. Mr B asked that the complaint be escalated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before commenting on the merits of this complaint, I would confirm that Equifinance and the 
broker Mr B used to source the loan are separate businesses and I cant hold Equifinance 
responsible for anything the broker did or didnt do. Nor can I attribute knowledge that the 
broker may have had to Equifinance unless there is evidence the broker forwarded that 
information to it. If Mr B has concerns about the advice or service he received from the 
broker, he would need to raise those issues directly with the broker.
While not part of his complaint to this service, I will address the point Mr B raised with 
Equifinance about believing he had re-mortgaged his house to it, rather than having taken a 
second charge loan in addition to his existing mortgage. As our investigator pointed out, the 
documentation from both before and after the application was clear that this was a second 
charge loan and not a re-mortgage. In addition, I note from the email conversations Mr B 
recently provided, in September 2021 when asking if he would be able to get a further loan, 
he referred to the Equifinance arrangement as just that, a loan, not a mortgage. There were 
then discussions about the possibility of a third charge loan being arranged. Overall, I am not 
persuaded that the information provided by Equifinance would have led Mr B to believe he 
had re-mortgaged his property to it. 
Mr B has said that it took months to process his application and so Equifinance should have 
asked for further evidence of income and expenditure before advancing the loan. His belief 
is that if it had, this would have evidenced that the loan was not affordable and/or that he 
had a gambling problem. As Equifinance didnt ask for further evidence, Mr B considers that 
the lending decision was irresponsible. I have looked at the dates involved in this case and while Mr B thinks the arrangements took 
months, I cant agree. The application was submitted to Equifinance on 8 June 2021 and the 
mortgage offer was issued on 13 July 2021  just 5 weeks later. The advance was then 
made two days after that. This was within the timescales I would expect an application to 
take to get to offer stage and I dont consider that there was any need for Equifinance to 
request further income and expenditure evidence, given what it had been provided with 
alongside the application. 
As for the checks that were actually done, it appears that Equifinance completed quite 
standard checks and requested the information I would expect. Lenders typically want bank 
statements for three months before the application and proof of income, which Mr B provided 
alongside his application. It also obtained a credit report for Mr B when the application was 
made and there were no significant issues showing on the report. 
Mr B has said that his broker knew about his gambling and Equifinance should have realised 
as it showed in his bank statements. However, there is no evidence that the broker told 
Equifinance about Mr Bs gambling, if it did know about it. In addition, the statement for the 
bank account Mr B chose to provide to Equifinance doesnt show any evidence of gambling, 
unlike those that he provided to this service, which do. In the circumstances, I cant find that 
Equifinance were negligent or inadequate in the checks it completed or that the lending 
decision was irresponsible, based on the information it had been provided.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
17 February 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman