DRN-2169543
The complaint
Miss A and Mr W are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home insurance with 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
What happened
Miss A and Mr Ws insurance policy with RSA started in 1997. They say the price increased 
gradually over the years, and they assumed this was just in line with the cost of living. The 
earliest date price data is available for is 2007, when the policy cost £267 for the year. The 
next year, 2008, it cost £271. 
Miss A and Mr Ws four adult children need full time care, which they provide themselves, 
and so are unable to work. They have very little social life or spare time. They didnt know 
that by shopping around or calling RSA they could have paid less. And they didnt really 
have time to do so each year. 
Miss A and Mr W have very limited income and have got into debt over the years which 
theyve struggled to repay. They had assumed that, as loyal customers who had made only 
one claim in 25 years, they would be getting the best deal available. And that RSA wouldve 
told them if there was a better deal available, as some other service providers have done.
In 2019, the renewal quote was for £319. This was unaffordable for Miss A and Mrs W, so 
they called RSA to explain this. They were immediately offered a £91 discount, which they 
were told was the best that could be done on this older policy. But that if they went online to 
get a quote as a new customer (for RSAs latest policy) it would be cheaper. When they did 
this, RSA offered to insure their home for just £68 (sixty-eight pounds) for the year. Miss A 
and Mr W didnt renew the policy. They took a policy with another insurer instead. And 
complained that theyd been treated unfairly. 
RSA said the price had been correctly calculated based on the risk covered by Miss A and 
Mr Ws specific policy. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss A 
and Mr W disagreed, so Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether RSA has treated Miss A and 
Mr W fairly throughout the period they held its insurance policy.
If I find that RSA hasnt treated Miss A and Mr W fairly, I will look to see what compensation 
would be fair. But in this case, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal  
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer knew, 
or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with the renewals 
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly  
and that they didnt take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because they didnt engage with the cost.
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly  theres nothing wrong with this.
Miss A and Mr W found that RSA would insure them for much less, as would other insurers. 
So, I can understand why they think this means theyve been treated unfairly. But insurers 
often include discounts in order to obtain new customers. The new quote with RSA and the 
other insurer they moved to include such discounts. Those discounts may mean that Miss A 
and Mr W wouldve been paying less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy. So, 
the prices they found in 2019 are not directly comparable the renewal quote. 
The home insurance market is constantly changing. Sometimes there is lots of competition 
and prices are low, and at others there is less competition and prices are higher. So, the 
prices found in 2019 dont mean that Miss A and Mr W wouldve been able to obtain cover 
for so little every year since they took out their policy. 
Insurance policies are not all the same  they have different levels of cover, excesses and 
differing terms and conditions that can affect the price charged. Each insurers costs vary 
depending on many things. So, just because the policy with RSA cost a lot more than their 
new policy  that doesnt mean the amount charged was unfair. 
From what Ive seen, it doesnt look like RSA was increasing Miss A and Mr Ws premiums 
unfairly. Im satisfied the increases reflected changes in RSAs rates, its view of the risk of 
insuring Miss A and Mr Ws house and its understanding of future likely claims. These are all 
fair reasons for RSA to increase the premium. Theres nothing to suggest RSA was charging 
Miss A and Mr W more for their insurance, just because theyd had their policy with it for a 
long time and werent engaging with the renewal cost.
While there were increases, there were also decreases. For example, the policy cost about 
the same in 2013 and 2017 as it did in 2007. And in 2011 and 2012 it cost less than it did in 
2007. And the increases in the other years dont appear excessive.
There are now rules (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers should, in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve had their policy for a number 
of years. RSA included this in the renewal invitations from 2016 onwards. But these rules 
didnt exist when Miss A and Mr W took out their policy with RSA. And even if they had, they 
dont go so far as to say that RSA should pro-actively tell customers of other policies it had 
available that may be cheaper.
Overall, while I understand why Miss A and Mr W are unhappy, and Im sorry to hear they 
have had financial difficulties, I dont think that RSA treated them unfairly when setting the 
price of their home insurance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman