DRN-2162269
The complaint
Mr B complains Zenith Insurance plc has avoided his car insurance policy (that is, treated it 
as if it never existed), has refused to pay his claim and is trying to recover the costs its paid 
to third parties on the claim.
What happened
Mr B took out his car insurance with Zenith through an online comparison site in July 2017.
 
In September 2017, he was involved in an accident and tried to claim on his car insurance.
Zenith refused to pay Mr Bs claim and avoided his car insurance policy (that is, treated it as 
if it never existed). It said this was because Mr B hadnt disclosed two driving-related 
convictions  an IN10 (driving without valid insurance) in June 2014 and an SP30 
(exceeding the statutory speed limit on a public road) in October 2015. It said if Mr B had 
disclosed these convictions when he was looking to take out his car insurance, it wouldnt 
have offered him cover. 
Zenith also told Mr B that, because effectively he didnt have car insurance at the time of the 
accident, he was personally liable for the damages, payments and related costs that arose 
because of it. Those costs are substantial  around £48,000.
When Mr B complained to us, the investigator who looked at his complaint didnt uphold it. 
He thought Zenith had acted in line with the law and hadnt treated unfairly or unreasonably 
in avoiding his policy and refusing to pay his claim. He didnt think Zenith had delayed 
unreasonably in telling Mr B it was avoiding his policy. And he also didnt think the costs 
Zenith had paid in connection with the claim against Mr B brought by the third parties 
involved in the accident were unjustified or had been signed off uncritically.
Mr B has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He says hes been living through 
a nightmare for three years and it was never his intention not to disclose any information that 
would have such a negative impact on his life. And he says he still hasnt had concrete 
evidence about how the costs of nearly £48,000 came about and were paid without his 
consent. He says this is highly concerning and adds to his financial worries.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
deeply. And I know hes experienced a lot of stress and trauma as a result of what has 
happened. I hope the reasons Im about to give help him towards an understanding of why 
his complaint isnt one I can uphold. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies as long as 
the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zenith says Mr B didnt take reasonable care when he took out his car insurance. As part of 
his online application in 2017, Mr B was asked:
In the last five years have you received any motoring convictions, driving licence 
endorsements or fixed penalties and/or have been disqualified from driving?
Mr B answered this question by disclosing a DR10 conviction for drink driving from 2014. But 
he didnt disclose the IN10 conviction he got on the same date. Nor did he disclose his SP30 
conviction from 2015.
Mr B says we need to look at the bigger picture of his insurance history with Zenith over 
time, and how he disclosed everything as he went along. He says used information from two 
years previously when he went on to the comparison site and didnt realise this didnt include 
his 2015 conviction. He says it didnt cross his mind. He says he didnt know he had the 
IN10, having only pleaded guilty to one charge in court. And he says if he had done, he 
wouldve disclosed it at the same time he disclosed the IN10.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B says. But the question on the comparison site was 
very clear. Mr B showed he understood it by disclosing his DR10. I appreciate Mr B copied 
across information from previous years when getting new quotes. But I think, if he was taking 
reasonable care, hed have checked all the information he was submitting to get the new 
quotes was correct before he submitted it. And I think making sure the information he gave 
about previous motoring convictions was correct shouldve been at the forefront of his mind 
when he did this. So it follows I dont think Mr B took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he took out the insurance.
Having decided this, I now need to consider if, for the purposes of CIDRA, Mr Bs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation. That is, would Zenith have done 
anything differently  for example not offered Mr B insurance or offered it to him on different 
terms  if he hadnt made the misrepresentation?
Zenith has showed us its underwriting criteria for Mr Bs insurance. It shows that, had Mr B 
disclosed all three motoring convictions (plus a previous disclosed fault claim against the 
named driver on his policy) it wouldnt have offered him cover at all. This means that, for the 
purposes of CIDRA, Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation.
Zenith has told us its treated Mr Bs misrepresentation as deliberate. In particular, it says 
because the IN10 conviction was given on the same date as the DR10 it thinks Mr B was 
fully aware of the conviction and deliberately opted not to disclose it when taking out the 
policy. As Ive already said, Mr B says it was never his intention not to disclose his motoring 
convictions.So now I need to consider, for the purposes of CIDRA, if Mr Bs misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless, or careless. We think a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if 
the person who was insured:
knew the information they gave was untrue or misleading or didnt care if it was 
untrue or misleading; and
knew the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or 
didnt care if it was relevant to the insurer.
Mr B says he didnt know about the IN10 conviction, and says he only pleaded guilty to one 
charge at court. And he says the SP30 conviction didnt cross his mind  but its clear he 
knew he had it. I dont think there can be any doubt Mr B wouldve known misrepresenting 
his motoring convictions was relevant to Zenith. And I think its likely hed have known about 
the IN10 conviction, especially since it was given on the same date as the DR10. So I think 
its more likely than not, based on the information Ive got, that Mr B knew the information he 
gave was untrue and knew it was relevant to Zenith.
That means Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was deliberate. So Ive gone on to look at 
the actions Zenith has taken as a consequence. It has avoided Mr Bs policy, refused to pay 
his claim and kept his premiums. It is also trying to recover the costs its paid to third parties 
on the claim.
Im satisfied Zenith was entitled to avoid Mr Bs policy in accordance with CIDRA. This 
means that, in effect, his policy never existed. And this in turn means Zenith doesnt have to 
deal with Mr Bs claim following the accident. And because CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Zenith to rely on it to avoid 
Mr Bs policy gives the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Mr B has raised other concerns about how Zenith has treated him. He thinks it delayed 
unreasonably in telling him it was avoiding his policy. But Zenith told Mr B what it was doing 
within around 14 days of the accident. I dont think thats an unreasonable time-frame in 
which to notify him. Mr B asks what wouldve happened had he been in an accident in that 
period. But had that happened, we wouldve made Zenith take responsibility for any liability 
that arose.
Mr B is also understandably concerned about the level of costs Zenith seeks to recover from 
him. He says these were paid without his consent. The policy Mr B bought says Zenith can 
take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim on Mr Bs behalf. So it is 
Zenith, and not Mr B, that has this right  Mr Bs consent to these costs isnt needed. The 
policy also says Zenith can recover from Mr B the amount of any claim its required to settle 
by law which the insurance wouldnt otherwise have paid under the policy. 
Mr B is especially concerned Zenith has paid out third party costs that he thinks arent 
justified and have been signed off uncritically. Our investigator noted Zenith had given Mr B 
two letters in which the costs relating to the accident were set out in some detail. And he 
said Zenith settled the claim on the basis of medical evidence given by an independent 
medical expert. Weve also asked Zenith to show us invoices for the costs it refers to in one 
of the letters Ive mentioned above. The invoices total almost £48,000. So, on the evidence I 
have, I cant see Zenith has done anything substantially wrong in how its dealt with the 
settlement of the third party claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman