DRN-2331640
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA is holding her liable for a credit 
account which she says she didnt open.
What happened
Mrs G had an ordinary PayPal account. She said she last used this account on 14 October 
2019.
In January 2020, she disputed three transactions to PayPal, which her bank refunded.
Subsequently, she found out there was a PayPal credit account in her name with a
maximum credit limit of £700. The credit account had been used to make several purchases,
totalling £736.18, from 25 November 2019 to 15 January 2020.
Mrs G raised a fraud complaint with PayPal in January 2020. She said she hadnt applied for 
the credit account and she hadnt given consent for anyone else to apply for it. She also said 
she didnt make the transactions on the account. She asked PayPal to close the account and 
stop pursuing her for the outstanding balance.
PayPal investigated her complaint but decided not to refund her. It said:
the account is user initiated which means only the PayPal user can apply for it
the application was made on 25 November 2019 and the person making it needed 
her PayPal login details
the credit agreement includes her name, address, income, email address and a 
digital signature
the credit account was linked to two other PayPal accounts by a card or a phone. Mrs 
G accepts that one of those two accounts is her ordinary account.
PayPal concluded, therefore, that Mrs G had opened the credit account and authorised the
disputed transactions.
As Mrs G disagreed with PayPals decision, she asked this service to investigate.
She told us that she lives with her partner and two infant children. She said she uses her 
iPhone to log in to her ordinary PayPal account, but no-one knows her login details. She said 
she hasnt written them down. She recognised the email address for the PayPal credit 
account. She said it was a genuine recovery email address, linked to her ordinary PayPal 
account. She uses the same email address for subscription services. She was adamant that 
she didnt apply for the credit account. 
I recently issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. In summary, I concluded it was unlikely that 
Mrs G authorised the disputed transactions given their nature and that, consequently, she 
didnt apply for the credit account either. I recommended that PayPal stop pursuing her for 
the outstanding balance and close the credit account
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Mrs G accepted my provisional decision.
PayPal disagreed with my conclusions. It said I had based my conclusions on assumptions 
and personal opinions rather than on fact. 
This case has now come back to me for an ombudsmans final decision. Ill refer to PayPals 
specific responses in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I may 
also draw inferences from the evidence. 
Its not my role to determine conclusively what did happen or who did make the disputed 
transactions. I must reach a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, 
after weighing up all the evidence and arguments, including inferences drawn from the facts.
Having done so, my decision remains the same. I dont believe Mrs G authorised the 
disputed transactions or applied for the credit account. I will explain how Ive reached this 
decision. Ill start with the disputed transactions because I think the nature of these 
transactions make it more unlikely that she applied for the credit account. 
PayPal is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). But
PayPal can hold Mrs G liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that its
more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.
Mrs G says she didnt make the disputed transactions. She wants the debt written off. So, 
my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think she authorised the 
transactions. I dont believe she authorised the disputed transactions for the following 
reasons.
The disputed transactions are multiple payments to iTunes, fashion retailers, uber
and Dominos pizzas delivery service. They occur frequently and almost daily. The most 
unusual feature is that the pizza deliveries were made to addresses in Liverpool, Nottingham 
and Hatfield between 11 to 15 December 2019. There are also deliveries for other goods to 
addresses in London and to university accommodation in Coventry. Mrs G got copies of 
receipts for some of the disputed transactions from the merchants. She said none of the 
telephone numbers on the receipts are hers. 
According to Mrs Gs bank statements, she was in Wales that week. Theres a card payment 
to her local supermarket that week. And as she was paying nursery fees, I assume her 
children were attending nursery, which means its more likely she was at home. Theres no 
spending on her debit card in Liverpool, Nottingham, Hatfield, Coventry or London or 
anywhere other than in Wales.In my provisional response, I concluded that the pattern of the disputed transactions 
reflected the spending of a young person or student, rather than Mr G who is in her late 30s 
and has two infant children. PayPal replied this was an age-based assumption, a stereotype 
and wrong. 
If I were referring generally to an age group, then this might be true. However, Im drawing 
an inference based on the facts in this case. Theres evidence that most of the transactions 
were made from a university IP address. Theres a delivery to university accommodation in 
Coventry and the fashion retailers are targeted at a younger consumer. Its possible Mrs G 
might buy from these merchants. However, Ive looked at her bank statements and theres 
nothing resembling this type of activity. She has used the same pizza merchant occasionally, 
but its a common high street take away service. Ive not seen the other merchants on her 
bank statements. And her children are too young to make these transactions.
Based on this evidence, I think I can reasonably infer that the person making the disputed 
transactions doesnt share Mrs Gs profile and is most likely a younger person. More 
importantly, the spending pattern is out of character and inconsistent with the spending 
pattern on Mrs Gs bank account.
But my main concern is the pizza deliveries to these different locations. I find all these 
transactions are very suspicious.  I appreciate she doesnt have to be physically in these 
locations, but I find it very odd that she would place these orders, especially as she wasnt 
benefiting from them. On balance, I dont think she did.
PayPal said it has identified three IP addresses from which the transactions were made. The
most frequently used address is based at the University of Hertfordshire. The other two IP 
addresses are in London and South East England. PayPal hasnt linked any of these IP 
addresses to any non-disputed purchases from her ordinary PayPal account, despite saying 
shed used these addresses consistently.
I appreciate that IP addresses arent conclusive evidence of a persons location. But being 
part of the universitys Wi-Fi system seems a strong indicator that the person using the Wi-Fi 
is in the vicinity. Mrs G said she has no connection with the university and doesnt know 
anyone working or studying there.
PayPal replied that we should discount the evidence of the IP addresses because we cant 
rule out the possibility she was using a virtual private network (VPN). I highly doubt Mrs G 
would go to the effort of creating a VPN simply to order pizzas, music, clothes and jewellery. 
Its hardly high-end fraud. Besides, its my understanding that a person needs to register with 
the university and get a password to use its Wi-Fi. Its not an open service. 
Ive thought about the delivery of paintbrushes to her home address. I said I thought it might 
be a ruse to make the disputed transactions appear genuine. PayPal said this was 
speculation and it wasnt likely a fraudster knew she was an artist. I dont disagree and I 
cant explain it but its not my role to determine what did happen. Its unfortunate Mrs G didnt 
query the delivery with the merchant. She said the transaction didnt appear on her bank 
statement, so she thought nothing more of it.
It is odd. But when I consider the likelihood of her authorising the disputed transactions, then 
I think the evidence of the spending pattern outweighs the fact she received paintbrushes. 
But as she kept the brushes, I do think she should now pay for them.
Taking everything into account I find, on balance, that its unlikely Mrs G authorised the 
disputed transactions and consequently, I dont consider she applied for the credit account.I think most of the personal details, which PayPal relies on to prove she applied for the 
account, would have been readily available to anyone she did business with online - whether 
a company or private individual. She would have provided a merchant with her name, 
address, email address and bank card details. So, I dont think its entirely implausible she 
was the victim of identity theft. In response to my provisional decision, PayPal said this 
wasnt a fair assumption to make. However, its a fact that these are the details we register 
when shopping online, so it is a fair assumption that there was an opportunity for a third 
party to use her personal details to impersonate her.
PayPal also said the person knew her login details and that a fraudster was unlikely to use a 
genuine email address as the risk of being caught out is high. It also said her card and or 
phone was linked to two other accounts. And its internal review showed her account wasnt 
compromised. Mrs G said the email was an old recovery email, which she used for 
subscriptions. She admitted that one of the accounts is her ordinary PayPal account. PayPal 
also said she wouldve seen the credit account when she logged into her ordinary account, 
but it hasnt provided any evidence showing she logged in with her mobile device after she 
made the last genuine transaction on 14 October 2019. 
Its possible someone she knew applied for the credit account. But I dont think she applied 
for it or consented to the application for the reasons stated above. But even if she had, the 
outcome would be the same because Im not persuaded she authorised the disputed 
transactions.
As I dont consider that Mrs G applied for the credit account, then that, simply, is the end of 
this dispute. She cant be held liable for the disputed payments if there is no contractual 
relationship between her and PayPal for the credit account. The terms and conditions of the 
User Agreement, which PayPal refers to, apply to her ordinary account which isnt the 
subject of this dispute. 
Putting things right
Ill now be asking PayPal to put things right. I also think its fair and reasonable to ask Mrs G 
pay for the paintbrushes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding this complaint and Im instructing PayPal Europe 
Sarl & Cie, SCA to:
stop pursuing Mrs G for the outstanding balance on the credit account
close the credit account and
remove any data relating to the credit account from her credit files.
Im also asking Mrs G to pay for the paintbrushes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman