DRN-4348807
The complaint
Ms F complains about a new car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge). The car suffered an 
engine failure and Ms F is unhappy the car now needs a replacement engine, which she is 
expected to pay for. 
What happened
Ms F acquired a new car in December 2019. The car cost more than £20,000 and the 
majority of the purchase price was met through a hire purchase agreement with Northridge. 
In August 2022, by the time the car had travelled approximately 37,000 miles, the car had a 
problem with the engine and this has led to the car requiring a replacement engine to 
remedy the issue. The engine failure is believed to be caused by the failure of the number 
two cylinder spark plug, which resulted in parts/fragments of the failed spark plug damaging 
the internal engine components. 
Ms F complained to Northridge and in support of her complaint provided an independent 
inspection report that ultimately concluded the car was not of satisfactory quality. Northridge 
has questioned the impartiality of the report and said that in its experience this inspector will 
always likely conclude the car was not of satisfactory quality. 
Northridge refers to a service schedule from the manufacturer which indicates the spark 
plugs should be changed at 32,000 miles and believes that as the spark plugs lasted longer 
than this, this shows the car was of satisfactory quality. 
Ms Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who explained why they 
considered there was sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint. They recommended Ms F 
be allowed to end her agreement with Northridge and receive a refund of her deposit and 
some repayments, plus the cost of the inspection report. 
Northridge did not accept the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been referred 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
The circumstances are of course well known to the parties involved in this complaint and I 
see no benefit therefore repeating them at length in this decision. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms F acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement with Northridge. Our service is 
able to consider complaints about hire purchase agreements and as Northridge is the 
supplier of the car to Ms F under the hire purchase agreement, we can consider complaints 
about the quality of that car. When considering the quality of a car the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 is appropriate legislation that would apply in this instance. The Act requires Northridge 
to supply goods that are of satisfactory quality. An element of satisfactory quality includes 
durability, which requires goods to last a reasonable period of time. Exactly what is a 
reasonable period of time will depend upon the circumstances and a number of factors. The 
test of whether or not the quality of the goods is satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory for the goods in question.
When assessing whether of not Ms Fs car was of satisfactory quality, the fact the car was 
new and cost in excess of £20,000 is a relevant consideration here. This is not an 
inconsiderable sum and understandably the expectations around the quality, and therefore 
durability, of the car are higher than when buying a used car for considerably less cost. Also 
relevant in my view is the fault or failure and the timing or mileage of the fault. 
There seems to be little or no dispute that the cars engine needs replacing and this is 
caused by the failure of one of the spark plugs. That failure has likely caused debris to be 
consumed within the engine and this has led to the much more significant failure of the 
engine as a whole. The failure occurred here after the car had travelled around 37,000 miles 
and the car was by that time around two and half years old. 
I accept that the problem has not occurred until some time into Ms Fs possession of the car 
and that the car had travelled 37,000 miles. But this again was a brand new car when 
supplied to Ms F and it is reasonable in my view to expect the cars engine, or the 
components that are connected to and key to its performance, to last for more than 37,000 
miles. I dont think a reasonable person would expect the cars engine to need replacing 
after merely 37,000 miles. This is especially so in my view where it is now clear that the 
failure of the component, the spark plug, can cause the catastrophic failure of the engine and 
require its replacement at significant expense. 
I accept that certain components do need servicing or replacing and I have considered very 
carefully the submissions from all parties around the servicing requirements of Ms Fs car. I 
understand Ms Fs owners manual refers to a service schedule for her car to be serviced 
every 12,000 miles or one year, which ever comes first. Ms F has from my understanding 
adhered to that service schedule, albeit I accept that not all servicing has been carried out by 
the suppling dealer, or a franchised dealer of the manufacturer. But even though Ms F did 
not use a franchised dealer for all her services, I am not persuaded this should impact the 
outcome of this complaint, considering the likelihood of the original spark plug being the one 
that failed. 
There is no mention in the owners handbook, to my knowledge, for the requirement to 
change the spark plugs at 32,000 miles. Northridge has produced a document from the 
manufacturer that refers to the spark plugs needing to be changed at 32,000 miles. But I 
have seen nothing that indicates Ms F was aware of this requirement. I note the document 
from the manufacturer has a section for a consumer to sign the form, but I again have seen 
nothing to indicate that Ms F had been provided with this service schedule. I have also noted the independent inspection has referred to the original servicing 
requirements for the spark plugs was at 50,000 miles and the inspector believes this was 
reduced because of known issues with the spark plugs. I havent seen any supporting 
evidence that indicates specifically that the spark plug servicing requirements for Ms Fs car 
reduced from 50,000 miles to 32,000 miles. But as already stated, I havent seen anything to 
indicate Ms F was aware of any servicing requirements for her spark plugs. One could argue 
that if the failure of the spark plugs could cause such a catastrophic failure requiring such an 
expensive repair, it would have been prudent to have told or reminded consumers of the 
need to replace the spark plugs at the certain interval. Replacing spark plugs is a relatively 
inexpensive task and I am confident had Ms F known of the potential consequences she 
would have ensured the spark plugs were replaced. 
I have also noted that Northridge considers the fact that the spark plugs did not fail until 
37,000 miles, therefore 5,000 miles after the 32,000 miles referred to as the servicing 
schedule. But this does not persuade me that the car and ultimately spark plugs were 
sufficiently durable. It is reasonable to assume that when a manufacturer sets a service 
schedule and recommends a component is replaced, that some flexibility is allowed to 
ensure components do not fail immediately when they reach the specified mileage period. 
Also in this instance I note the 32,000 mile service interval appears to conflict somewhat with 
the 12,000 miles or 1 year servicing requirements in the owners handbook. This arguable 
misalignment of servicing requirements has potentially significant implications for 
consumers whose annual service doesnt quite fall on 32,000 miles.
Ultimately, having considered all that the parties have said and provided, for the reasons set 
out above I am not persuaded the car Northridge supplied to Ms F under the hire purchase 
agreement was of satisfactory quality. as it was not sufficiently durable. Im satisfied that a 
reasonable person, who has serviced the car in accordance with the instructions they 
received, would not consider the car to be of satisfactory quality and it is for these reasons 
that I consider Ms Fs complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out a variety of remedies that may be appropriate 
where goods are found to not have been of satisfactory quality and I have had regard to 
those here. I have also considered the significance of the repair required now to remedy the 
issue and that some considerable time has now passed since the cars failure. 
Ms F has gone to great lengths with numerous parties to obtain a remedy, after being told 
she must fund the cost of repair herself. An engine replacement is a significant task, even for 
an authorised garage, and this comes at considerable cost. Having considered the specific 
circumstances of Ms Fs complaint, in particular that she has been without the car for a 
considerable period of time now, I consider that Northridge should allow Ms F to reject the 
car and end her agreement with them. Northridge should arrange to the collect the car, at its 
own cost, and settle any storage costs if required. 
Ms F has been without use of the car for some time and if she has made repayments to the 
hire purchase agreement since the car failed, these should be refunded to Ms F. If payments 
have not been made to the hire purchase agreement and any adverse information has been 
recorded with credit reference agencies, this should be removed from Ms Fs credit file. Ms F 
should also receive a refund of her deposit once the hire purchase agreement is cancelled. 
In support of her complaint Ms F has provided experts report and this is a detailed 
inspection and report into the car. This is a cost that Ms F need not have incurred had she 
been supplied with a car that was of satisfactory quality. So Northridge should also refund 
this to her. Northridge should add interest to any refunded sums and this should be calculated at 8% 
simple on each item from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
Finally, Ms F has been caused significant trouble and upset as a result of being supplied a 
car that was not of satisfactory quality. She has had to make alternative travel arrangements 
and been caused great inconvenience for some time. In addition to what I have already set 
out, Northridge should pay Ms F £400 to reflect this. 
If Northridge does not settle the complaint within 28 days of Ms F accepting this decision, 
interest, on the same basis as already set out, should be added to the £400.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Fs complaint against N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as 
Northridge Finance and direct it to settle Ms Fs complaint in accordance with what I have 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman