DRN-3931808
The complaint
Mr S complains that QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) agent behaved inappropriately, causing delays 
and that it unfairly declined his claim for the theft of his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr Ss wife contacted QIC to report the theft of their car. He says QICs 
agent advised that they should keep hold of his keys for a few days in case the car was 
found. This was to avoid potential storage charges by the police. Mr S says QIC requested 
the keys. But due to heavy snow he says the keys couldnt be posted to QIC for around a 
week. 
Mr S says the previous owner of the car owed him money. He says he took ownership of the 
car in payment for that debt. He says hes done everything hes been asked to do by QIC, 
but its agent has spoken to him rudely, acted aggressively and intimated he may be involved 
in the theft.  
QIC responded to Mr Ss complaint to say its agent acted professionally to ascertain the 
facts of his claim. It says there were a number of discrepancies with the information 
provided, which is why certain questions had to be asked. It says it doesnt believe its agent 
behaved unprofessionally or that the claim was delayed. 
QIC says it declined Mr Ss claim in line with its policy terms. It says there is evidence the 
car was used after the alleged theft and it isnt satisfied with the validity of the evidence 
provided. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He 
says QIC had fairly declined the claim in line with the policy terms. This was based on 
discrepancies in the account Mr S provided. He also refers to evidence from a key expert 
that showed anomalies with the mileage recorded and when the key fobs were last used. 
Our investigator didnt think QIC had behaved unreasonably. 
Mr S thought this outcome was unfair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I understand this will be disappointing 
for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Its for Mr S to demonstrate that he suffered an insured loss (fire, theft etc..). If he can do so 
then, generally speaking, QIC must pay the claim unless it can reasonably rely on a policy 
exclusion not to.  
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ss concern that QICs agent spoke to him rudely, was 
disrespectful and a bit racist with reference to him or his family/friends being involved in a 
fraudulent claim. 
When Mr S contacted QIC he was asked a series of questions. He was also asked to 
provide information so the business could validate his claim. I dont think this approach was 
unreasonable. This is what wed expect to happen in these circumstances. 
In its complaint response in September 2021 QIC says that having listened to recordings of 
calls with Mr S, the interview techniques used were very direct due to the nature of the claim. 
It says this may have caused Mr S to feel the way he does, but its agents are trained in a 
specific way due to the importance of the information they obtain in order to determine the 
correct outcome. 
QIC sent a partial transcript from two of the calls that took place. From this I think the 
questions its agent asked were appropriate in order to validate the claim. For example, Mr S 
was asked, who was the last person to drive the car, when was it last seen, where are the 
keys, when was each key last used, who paid for the vehicle, who lives in property, who has 
access to the keys, and how much money was owed by the previous owner of the car.
We asked QIC for recordings of the calls that took place between its agents and Mr S. It sent 
four recordings including the initial notification of loss call and the interview carried out with 
Mr S. Ive listened to these calls. I didnt identify inappropriate behaviour on the part of the 
agents. The interview was carried out in a business-like manner. Some questions had to be 
repeated and further explanations given to Mr S, so he understood what the interviewer 
wanted to know. But I dont think the interviewer was rude. Similarly, I didnt find any issues 
with how the conversations were handled in the other calls or with the information that was 
discussed. 
Having considered this, although Im sorry Mr S was upset, I dont think QICs agent 
behaved inappropriately when talking to him and asking for information to validate his loss. 
So, I wont be asking the business to do anything more in relation to this point.  
Turning to QICs decision to decline Mr Ss claim. I can see that he says the police were 
contacted to report the theft and that he was provided with a crime reference number. We 
asked him for a copy of the police report that had been produced. Mr S says the police 
advised that our service should contact it directly for this information. Unfortunately, having 
requested this information from the police we havent been provided with a report.
In its letter dated 10 December 2021 declining Mr Ss claim, QIC says it has been unable to 
validate Mr Ss ownership of the vehicle. It says he provided no evidence of any agreement 
with the previous owner. QIC says Mr S has recklessly or deliberately made false statements 
regarding the last authorised driver and when the vehicle was last used. It says one of the 
key fobs was used after the alleged theft, and that the vehicles computer showing the date, 
time, and mileage, had been altered. 
QIC says the CCTV footage shows the vehicles alarm stopped after four seconds, indicating 
a genuine key was used in the alleged theft. It says it has serious concerns with the validity 
of the evidence presented by Mr S and will not pay anything in settlement of his claim. QIC 
refers to the following policy terms and conditions to support its decision not to indemnify Mr 
Ss loss:
If you, or anyone acting on your behalf, upon applying for cover, renewing the policy,
amending the policy or making a claim, commit a fraudulent act, submit a false
document or make a false or exaggerated statement, cover under this policy may bedeclared void (where permitted by law) or otherwise cancelled immediately and you will
not be entitled to a refund of premium. Any claims made against the policy will also not
be paid.  
Ive watched the CCTV footage from the alleged theft where the alarm sounds. This can be 
heard for a few seconds only, which supports QICs comments that a key was used. The 
business says it was told that Mr S was the last person to drive the car. This was on 18 
January 2021 when he drove to his sons house. As they had both been working from home, 
they advised that the car had been parked on the driveway after this time. Mr S explains that 
they used his wifes car for going to the shops. He also told QIC that there was no-one else 
in the household and no-one else had access to his property or vehicle.
Mr S told QIC he saw the car parked on the driveway when closing the curtains on 20 
January 2021. The next morning, he noticed the car was missing. 
In its investigation report QIC refers to Mr S confirming he had two keys. Later in the same 
call it says he advised he had one fob and the second key is the plastic emergency blade. 
One of the key fobs was missing, but Mr S says this is all he had received from the previous 
owner of the vehicle. 
QIC says Mr S later posted three keys to its office. This included two key fobs and the plastic 
emergency blade. It sent the keys for expert testing. Ive read the expert report that was 
provided to QIC. This shows a discrepancy with the mileage that is recorded between the 
two key fobs. Two different scans were used on each of the fobs. The first showed the 
information recorded from the vehicle. The key expert says this information can be adjusted 
whilst inside the vehicle. He says the second scan shows the mileage, which is recorded in a 
different place, and that this cant be altered. 
In the report the mileage on key fob one is recorded as 60,379, and this was last updated on 
20 January 2021 at 3.02pm. The mileage on key fob two is recorded as 59,124 and this was 
last updated on 4 September 2020 at 7.32pm. 
From the second scan, key fob one shows the same mileage as in the first scan. However, 
key fob two has a last recorded mileage of 62,675. This is 2,296 miles more than key fob 
one and significantly more than the mileage recorded for this fob in the first scan. 
In his report the key expert explains that because there is a discrepancy between the two 
scans this means an adjustment has been made to the vehicles mileage. He says the data 
from key fob one has been shown to be accurate as its consistent between the two scans. 
But the last key used has to be key fob two. The expert says this is because the mileage is 
higher using the scan data, which cant be adjusted. 
The key expert says the car is not vulnerable to relay theft. Meaning entry to the vehicle 
would likely need to be forced if the thief didnt have a key. Based on the scan data the 
expert concludes that Mr Ss car had been used extensively since 20 January 2021.
In its investigation report QIC says all the keys were sent to it on 27 January 2021. It says 
this means key fob two has been used to drive the vehicle 2,296 miles since the last use 
was recorded on key fob one, which was on 20 January. It says this doesnt fit with Mr Ss 
testimony or the average mileage estimated from the information available on previous 
MOTs. QIC says this is roughly the distance from the UK to Eastern Europe. 
In a later call to Mr S, QIC says he passed the phone to his wife who explained their son had 
used the car on 20 January 2021. It was subsequently explained to QIC that the son had 
driven the car twice on this day. And had brought the car back around 10pm. This is a different version of events from that Mr S initially provided. He has since said that his son 
lives with him and his wife. And that his son has permission to drive his car. Again, this is at 
odds with his initial testimony that it was only he and his wife living in the property, and that 
no-one else had access to his car. 
From its investigation report I can see that QICs agent questioned Mr S around how he 
came to have possession of the car. Mr S said he had lent his sons friend £13,000 to help 
with moving home. The agent thought this was a lot of money to lend someone in these 
circumstances. Mrs S advised it was £5,000 initially and that they kept loaning him a bit 
more each time. QICs agent noted that Mr S and his wife needed to check the name of the 
friend when asked for this information.
Mr S supplied CCTV footage to QIC recorded by a neighbours doorbell camera. In its 
investigation report QICs agent says this is timestamped from 21 January 2021 and shows 
a dark figure in the background. It says the footage shows lights flash and a beep is heard 
as though unlocking a vehicle. In its letter declining the claim QIC says the alarm can be 
heard to sound for four seconds before stopping. 
I can see that the key expert commented on this point. He says a key fob would be needed 
to stop the alarm. He says its possible to add a new fob if there is access to the onboard 
diagnostic (OBD) port, by using a blank fob and a laptop with an OBD interface. But he says 
this will take 30 to 35 minutes. The expert says there is one company that has been shown 
to do this in around 20 seconds. But the CCTV suggests a pre-coded key fob was used in 
this instance, given it took only four seconds for the alarm to stop. 
Having considered all of this evidence Ive thought carefully about whether it was fair for QIC 
to decline Mr Ss claim. I think it was. The terms are clear that a claim wont be paid where 
there is evidence of false statements being provided. 
I note Mr Ss comments that he thought QICs agent was asking about the last time he drove 
the vehicle. Not when it was last driven. This is why he answered the way he did. He also 
says he was stressed and anxious as a result of the theft, and this was also the one-year 
anniversary of the death of his mother. He says this caused him to become confused. 
Ive listened to the call recording when the QICs agent interviewed Mr S about his claim. I 
acknowledge Mr Ss comments, but I think the agents questions were clear. He reworded 
and repeated several of the questions when this was necessary. The same applies in Mrs 
Ss case and the questions she was asked. Im sorry Mr S was caused upset, but I think it 
was reasonable for QIC to rely on the testimony he initially provided. It was also reasonable 
to query this when his account later changed. Mr S told the business the last time his car 
was driven was on 18 January 2021. This is clearly very different to the car being driven by 
his son two days after this. 
Ive seen the evidence Mr S provided to support his account of lending money to his sons 
friend. This shows a number of withdrawals from a bank account amounting to £8,000 during 
2017 and 2018. This doesnt show who the recipient of the money was and is less than the 
£13,000 he says he lent to his sons friend. I think QICs concerns are fair that it seems 
unusual to lend this amount of money for the purpose stated. Particularly to someone Mr and 
Mrs S didnt appear to know that much about. I would also expect there to be evidence of the 
full amount of money they provided and when this happened. 
The testimony provided by QICs key expert is persuasive. He shows how the mileage 
recorded on key fob two must mean the car was driven after the last use date showing on 
key fob one, which was on 20 January 2021. As well as the key data not matching Mr and 
Mrs Ss testimony, it shows the car mustve been driven after the date it was allegedly stolen, using this key fob.
In addition, QICs expert explains the vehicle isnt susceptible to theft by the relay technique, 
so it would need a key to open the car. The fact that the alarm only sounded for a few 
seconds further supports it being taken using a pre-coded key fob in the CCTV footage 
provided. 
In summary, I havent seen evidence that shows QICs agent behaved inappropriately when 
interviewing Mr S or his wife. The questioning was carried out in a business-like manner, but 
I dont think the agent behaved unreasonably. Similarly, I think QIC has investigated Mr Ss 
claim fairly. It has reasonably declined to indemnify Mr Ss loss under the terms of its policy, 
because of the discrepancies with his testimony and with the evidence discussed here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman