DRN-4236184
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Assicurazioni Generali SpAs decision to decline his income protection 
claim. 
What happened
Mr M has income protection with Generali. In November 2021, Mr M was admitted to 
hospital having contracted the COVID-19 virus. He spent 14 days in hospital and was 
admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) for half that time. He was discharged at the end of 
November, although continued to suffer with several symptoms, including breathlessness 
and coughing, owing to blood clots having formed on his lungs.
Mr M said hes still too unwell to return to work. He also explained he had arterial fibrillation 
(AF) in March 2022 which further compounded his recovery and overall health. Mr M would 
like Generali to pay his claim.
Generali said Mr Ms policy has a 26-week deferred period. It also explained the policy is for 
any other suited occupation. Generalis position is that the medical evidence doesnt support 
that Mr M was incapacitated for the whole of the deferred period. It highlighted reports from 
specialists showing Mr M was recovering well during that time and that his lung capacity had 
vastly improved. It acknowledged the AF and said this was an isolated episode for which 
hed been prescribed medication to help manage those symptoms. Generali said Mr M could 
potentially return to work with reasonable adjustments and so it declined his claim. 
Our investigator said Generali had declined Mr Ms claim fairly. She said that it relied on 
medical evidence to do so. She explained that where there were differences of medical 
opinion, itd rationalised its decision-making and relied on the medical opinions of the most 
suitably qualified specialists. 
Mr M disagreed with her view. In summary, he said that hes continued to suffer with many 
other symptoms commonly associated with long COVID, such as, breathlessness on 
exertion, memory fog, fatigue, changes in mood and difficulty maintaining concentration. Mr 
Ms also unhappy with the investigators synopsis of his physical capabilities and referred to 
her comments about his gym frequency and other physical activities, such as dog walking. 
Mr M explained these are all prescribed and recommended forms of rehabilitation suggested 
by medical professionals responsible for his care. And that to perceive this as his readiness 
to return to work, or that he has an increased physical capacity, would be artificial. So, its 
now for me to make a final decision on whether Generali declined Mr Ms claim fairly.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator. Im satisfied Generali relied on appropriate medical 
evidence to decline Mr Ms claim. Ill explain why.
I should start by saying the test here isnt simply whether Mr M is unwell. To be clear, Im 
satisfied Mr M was very unwell for a period and this is supported by his admission to ICU. I 
also dont doubt that Mr M continued to suffer with symptoms of long COVID. I think the 
contemporaneous medical evidence is consistent about that. But the real test in the 
circumstances of this complaint is whether Mr M was incapacitated as defined by the policy 
terms, and whether Generali declined his claim fairly. The Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS) says an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and not reject a 
claim unreasonably. And so, Ive also considered Generalis responsibility in that regard.
The policy terms say;
The Definition of Incapacity 
As a result of illness or injury, the member is incapable of performing the material and 
substantial duties of their occupation, or any occupation to which they are suited by 
education, training or experience, and they are not carrying out any other work or 
occupation
Definition of Deferred Period 
Means the period of Incapacity which must elapse before Benefit may become payable. If 
the Member is on statutory leave or granted leave of absence, the Deferred Period will start 
from the date of Incapacity and Benefit payments will start from either the end of the 
Deferred Period or the agreed return to work date whichever is the later
Material and substantial: 
Means duties that are normally required for the performance of a members occupation and 
cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by their employer
The suited to any other occupation part of the policy is important because it means that Mr M 
must also demonstrate that hes unable to fulfil the responsibilities and demands of other 
occupations that hes suited by way of education and experience, like a sedentary home-
based role.
Im satisfied the medical evidence shows that Mr M, although initially incapacitated in 
November 2021, didnt satisfy the 26-week deferred period. I say that because I note the 
improvements with his health described by his doctor. To be clear, the deferred period 
expired on 12 May 2022. On 25 March, some seven weeks prior to the end of the deferred 
period, Mr Ms consultant explained his lungs had recovered excellently and Mr M even 
noted his function was between 65  70% of their original capacity prior to his COVID 
admission to hospital. For clarity, Mr Ms claim was borne from his contraction of COVID-19 
and the complications with his recovery. 
I think this adequately demonstrates Mr Ms recovery was going well. And for Mr M to satisfy 
the policys incapacity criteria, such a vast improvement on his original reason for absence, 
would make it difficult to explain why he continued to be incapacitated and unable to return 
to work in his current, or a suited occupation. Im satisfied Generali interpreted and relied on 
this piece of medical evidence fairly for these reasons. 
Ive considered the other arguments made by Mr M about his impaired cognitive function and 
although I dont doubt hes experienced the symptoms hes explained, its difficult for me to 
rely on this because hes not produced any medical evidence to support his perceived impaired function by a suitably qualified professional. In addition, when I consider it in 
conjunction with medical opinions that are consistent that Mr Ms health had vastly improved, 
I find that argument less persuasive. 
I understand the challenge Mr Ms put forward here and the reference to the large numbers 
of people that suffer from long COVID and their collective reporting of similar symptoms. But 
Generali is entitled to make its claims decision based on medical evidence related directly to 
Mr M. And other than his self-reported symptoms inhibiting his functional capacity, Ive not 
seen anything persuasive thats explored this, or produced any tangibly persuasive medical 
evidence explaining the extent of Mr Ms cognitive symptoms in detail, or how this prevented 
him returning to work from March 2022.  
Mr M explained the FIT notes issued by his GP are evidence that he was too unwell to work 
and to be clear, thats not in dispute. But its also not the test he needs to meet. He must be 
able to demonstrate his incapacity as defined by the policy to receive benefit. So, although 
the FIT notes are an important piece of medical evidence, theyre not the full story. Thats 
why our investigator and Generali referred to other pieces of medical evidence that better 
explain Mr Ms illness and functional capacity. 
Im not persuaded Generali cherry picked evidence to simply decline his claim. Im satisfied 
it placed more emphasis on available evidence from the specialists, that reviewed Mr M and 
provided detailed assessment notes, rather than relying on FIT notes which were 
significantly less detailed. I should say its for Mr M to show he has a valid claim and Im not 
persuaded hes done that because the medical evidence available shows hed made an 
excellent recovery by March 2022. Im not at all saying he was fully recovered, but Im 
satisfied with Generalis interpretation that he was well enough to consider a phased return 
to work, with reasonable adjustments because thats what the consultant said. 
The cardiac issue
Mr Ms explained he feels this was a subsidiary issue and that Generalis reference to his AF 
is perhaps another way to decline his claim. I have to say I dont agree with that. I think it 
important that Generali demonstrate itd considered this issue as this could have significantly 
impaired Mr Ms functional capacity as this happened at the end of March. As things stand, 
this was an acute issue, meaning theres no on-going treatment needed. 
I note the consultant cardiologists comments that this episode was likely arterial fibrillation 
and that a change in medication was needed. He made no further comments about Mr Ms 
ability to return to work and so Im less persuaded that his heart problems were an on-going 
issue that would preclude a phased return to work. 
I think Generali considered all the medical evidence related to this issue fairly. I say that 
because the cardiologist recommended that Mr M not drive for three months after the issue. 
And I noted Generali, when considering Mr Ms readiness for work, considered the travel-
element of his role. Generali said Mr M could likely return to work, provided he didnt have to 
travel to see clients. 
Ive considered Mr Ms role and it was estimated he had to travel around 30% of the time. 
And so, it recommended that he should not have to fulfil those obligations as a reasonable 
adjustment  which I thought was fair. Its also important to highlight the suited occupation 
part of the policy as the medical evidence doesnt support that Mr M would not have been 
able to fulfil the remaining deferred period working from home. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman