DRN-4237342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money they say they lost to a 
scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T invested in an unregulated property scheme (that Ill call W). They made two 
payments from their HSBC joint account to the scheme. Those payments were £10,000 on 3 
April 2017 and £5,000 on 4 April 2017. W subsequently entered administration and, 
eventually, liquidation. 
Mr and Mrs T complained to HSBC through a representative in 2022. They argued that 
HSBC had breached its duty of care by failing to question the payments and, had it done so, 
the scam would have come to light and the loss would have been prevented. HSBC said that 
the payments were not considered suspicious and it acted in accordance with the 
procedures it had in place at the time.
Mr and Mrs T referred the matter to our service, but one of our Investigators didnt uphold 
the complaint. They thought that HSBC ought to have considered the payments suspicious 
and intervened but, had it done so, it wouldnt have been concerned about the investments 
based on information that was available at the time. 
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives maintained that had HSBC intervened it would have been 
able to identify several concerning aspects of the investment, such as the way in which Mr 
and Mrs T had been contacted, the fact the scheme had been inappropriately marketed to 
them and that theyd have no protection if something went wrong. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position in law is that Mr and Mrs T are responsible for transactions theyve 
carried out themselves. Theres no dispute about that here.
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, HSBC should, fairly and 
reasonably, have been on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions, as well 
as other indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
I agree with the Investigator that given Mr and Mrs Ts previous account activity, the size of 
the first payment and the fact it was going to a new payee, HSBC ought to have identified a 
scam risk and questioned the first payment before it debited Mr and Mrs Ts account.
 
However, its difficult to see how any intervention would have prevented their loss. After all, it 
doesnt appear that any significant concerns were raised about W until after this payment 
was made. While theres no dispute that W was unregulated, it appeared to be operating 
legitimately at that time and, I understand, paid returns to some investors for some time after 
Mr and Mrs T made their payments. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ts representatives submissions carefully and I do recognise 
that there were some concerning features of the investment. But I also have to consider 
what would reasonably come to light in a relatively brief telephone conversation between the 
bank and Mr and Mrs T. I think some of the suggestions made by Mr and Mrs Ts 
representatives, such as the bank being able to establish that W or intermediaries acting on 
its behalf did not act in accordance with relevant regulations (for example by breaching rules 
around the marketing of unregulated investments) are likely to have been beyond the scope 
of such a conversation. 
While the bank might have advised Mr and Mrs T that they would lose their money if 
something went wrong, it would not have been able to establish that Mr and Mrs T were 
definitely falling victim to a scam. And, Im not persuaded that merely highlighting the risk to 
their money would have deterred Mr and Mrs T from going ahead with the payments when 
set against the weight of evidence that W was operating legitimately.
Overall, based on what appears to have been known at the time, I cant reasonably conclude 
that an intervention by HSBC would have prevented Mr and Mrs Ts loss.
Finally, any chance of recovering Mr and Mrs Ts funds so long after the event would have 
been very small. Despite that, HSBC did try to recover their money but was unsuccessful. I 
think its efforts to recover their money were reasonable.  
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs T have lost out, but Ive decided that HSBC arent responsible for 
their loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman