DRN-3654658
The complaint
Ms T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly provided her with 
credit she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Capital One approved a credit card application for Ms T in November 2021. They provided a 
credit limit of £200 and that limit was never increased. The account was paid off and closed 
in March 2022.
Ms T says Capital One were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for her.
Capital One disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they 
reviewed Ms Ts credit file and found she had no arrears, defaults, or County Court 
judgements. They said they didnt see any signs of financial difficulty and that Ms Ts 
declared income and their statistical modelling of her likely expenditure suggested she had 
sufficient disposable income to sustainably afford repayments. They thought the information 
suggested the lending was affordable for Ms T.
Our investigator agreed but Ms T didnt. She explained she was on maternity leave when the 
card was approved, and her income was reduced. She asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think Capital One completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. They 
reviewed Ms Ts credit file and gathered some information from her about her income and 
circumstances. 
That information suggested Ms T was earning about £24,491 per year (about £1,690 net per 
month). I cant see Capital One were told Ms T was on a reduced salary due to maternity 
leave so I dont think they could be expected to have taken that into account. Ms Ts credit 
file showed she had outstanding credit commitments totalling £653. There were no defaults 
or County Court Judgments registered against her and the payment history Capital One saw 
suggested Ms T was managing her accounts quite well. There were no missed payments in 
the last three months. 
The credit being provided was relatively small and I dont think there was anything in the 
information Capital One reviewed that would give cause for them to consider the lending was 
unaffordable for Ms T, the information they gathered would have suggested Ms T would 
have enough disposable income to sustainably meet repayments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman