DRN-1789498
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain as directors of H, a limited company, about the way Aviva Insurance 
Limited dealt with a claim on Hs business protection insurance, including delays dealing with 
the claim and the amount paid, and about Avivas decision not to renew Hs policy.
What happened
H operated from rented premises. Following a fire in 2019 that destroyed the premises, H 
made a claim on its insurance policy. It has had insurance in place for a number of years, 
with the most recent renewal before the fire being in June 2018. H claimed under the 
property damage section of the policy for damage to tools and equipment, and on the 
business interruption section of the policy for loss of profit as it wasnt able to continue 
trading after the fire.
The insurer made payments to H but did not pay the business interruption claim in full. It said 
H was insured for loss of gross profit of £60,000 per year but its actual gross profit was much 
higher. So it only paid a proportion of the claim.
Mr and Mrs H complained on behalf of H about the way Aviva handled the claim. They said 
there were delays, the loss adjusters appointed to asses the claim were unhelpful, items 
were disposed of without their knowledge, and the claim wasnt paid in full. Aviva said 
neither it nor its loss adjusters were seeking to avoid paying the claim, but they need 
information to be able to assess the losses and had difficulty getting this information from H. 
Aviva said it agreed to make a settlement offer without H having quantified the claim or 
providing a quantified list of items with supporting evidence. Aviva also said the claim for 
business interruption was assessed correctly on the basis of the information it had; a 
proportionate settlement was paid because H was under-insured. And it said it wasnt 
involved in disposing of any items; that was dealt with by the landlord of the premises.
When H brought the complaint to this service, our investigator said there were some delays 
but this hadnt affected the way the claim was assessed. He thought Aviva had acted fairly in 
settling the property damage claim without having full supporting evidence and was entitled 
to make a proportionate settlement of the business interruption claim; if H was under-
insured, that arose from the way the property was sold and would be considered separately. 
He didnt think Aviva was responsible for the disposal of items. And finally he said it was a 
matter for Aviva to decide whether to renew the policy again and it hadnt acted unfairly in 
deciding not to do so.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed and provided further comments. The investigator reviewed the way 
the business interruption claim had been settled and thought the calculations were not 
correct. But after considering further information from Aviva concluded that the settlement 
was fair.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers should deal with claims promptly and fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help 
a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress; and should not 
unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy includes cover for property damage up to the limits set out in the schedule, which 
are £51,066 for portable hand tools; £76,599 for machinery; plant, fixtures and fittings; and 
£6,128.00 for computer and diagnostic equipment. There are other limits for other sections 
and more specific limits per claim (such as £1,000 per individual for tools).
It also includes cover for any interruption to the business resulting from damage to property 
at the premises for up to two years, with a limit of £122,560 (so £61,280 per year). These 
claims are settled using a calculation of the loss of insured profit based on the rate of insured 
profit in proportion to turnover. The settlement clause includes the following:
If at the time of the Damage the Sum Insured is less than the sum produced by applying the 
Rate of Insured Profit to the Annual Turnover, proportionately increased where the Maximum 
Indemnity Period exceeds 12 months, You will be Your own insurer for the difference and 
bear a rateable share of the loss.
So if H was under-insured, there would be a proportionate settlement.
Handling the claim
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy about the way the claim was investigated. They say the loss 
adjusters were unhelpful and they were very unhappy with the investigation into the cause of 
the fire. Aviva acknowledged there was a short delay initially and the loss adjuster only 
attended 11 days after the fire. But I dont think that affected the way Hs claim was 
investigated or changed the outcome for H. A report was prepared and H was able to 
comment on that. Some of the delay was due to Aviva wanting further information from H. 
Its for a policyholder to prove their claim and its reasonable that Aviva wanted evidence of 
the losses to validate the claim and make a settlement proposal.
The loss adjuster sent an email explaining:
what the policy covered;
how the business interruption claim would be calculated, and how under-insurance 
would be dealt with; and
how the damage claims would be dealt with and calculated.
The email requested turnover figures and a list of the items damaged together with details of 
the amounts claimed, quotations from suppliers to support the replacement costs and details 
of other parties who had a financial interest in the property. 
So Aviva explained to H what was needed and, even though H hadnt provided evidence of 
all the losses claimed, agreed to make a settlement offer. It also made a number of interim 
payments while waiting to hear from H.
In view of this, Im satisfied the way the claim was handled was reasonable. 
What caused the fire didnt affect how Aviva settled Hs claim. So even if there was a delay, 
that didnt affect the outcome of these claims. It may have affected any claims made by third 
parties whose property was at the premises at the time, but if Mr and Mrs H are unhappy 
about how those claims are dealt with that could be considered as a separate complaint.Property damage
 
Aviva paid a total of £133,443 to settle the claim. This is equal to the policy limits for the 
relevant elements of cover that I have set out above (less the excess payable). So although 
H wasnt able to document all the property losses sustained, Aviva has paid up to the 
full sums insured on the policy and theres nothing more it could do.
Business interruption
Aviva has explained the calculations it used to work out the business interruption claim. This 
was based on the calculation in the policy terms, using Hs gross profit as a proportion of 
turnover. Its based on Hs accounts for the periods before the fire, together with a projection 
of potential revenue after that.
The gross profit for the period before the fire was about 65% of turnover. H had business 
interruption cover for up to 24 months. Calculating the estimated gross profit for the two 
years after the fire at 65% of estimated turnover produced a figure of approximately 
£351,000. The actual sum insured was £122,56  about 35% of the sum that H should have 
been insured for. So Aviva paid 35% of the claim for business interruption.
Im satisfied the settlement of this element of the claim was in line with the policy terms and 
was fair in the circumstances. The sum insured was based on information H had provided. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs H say they were not advised properly about the information they 
needed to provide (in particular, using gross profit rather than net profit) but that concerns 
the actions of the broker that sold the policy and is being looked at separately. In this 
complaint Im only considering how Aviva calculated the payment when settling the claim. 
Aviva wasnt responsible for the fact H was under-insured.
Items removed from the premises
After the fire, various items belonging to H were removed from the premises. I know Mr and 
Mrs H are unhappy about this but Aviva wasnt responsible for the removal and didnt 
authorise it. As I understand it, this was dealt with by the landlord of the premises.
Not renewing the policy
Mr and Mrs H have said their new broker indicated that Aviva refused to renew Hs policy 
because there were three claims in less than six months, they had complained to the 
ombudsman, and hadnt secured new premises. At each renewal, a new contract is entered 
into. Generally its for an insurer to decide what risks it wishes to take on and its not for me 
to tell an insurer whether it should offer a policy to a customer. Where claims have been 
made, that may affect an insurers decision but as Ive said, it was a matter for Aviva to 
decide whether to offer cover. I haven't seen any evidence that Avivas decision was due to 
the complaint being made. 
Summary
Mr and Mrs H say that even though Aviva may have paid out on the policy to the full amount 
required, they still hold it responsible for not checking that the policy was adequate or 
questioning information from the broker. They also say if Aviva had investigated the claim 
more quickly Hs property would not have been disposed of and its losses would have been 
lower. But for the reason set out above, I dont think Aviva was responsible for any unnecessary delay. It was entitled to ask for evidence before settling the claim. And the way 
it settled the claim was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman