DRN-2331390
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S complain that QIC Europe Ltd voided their home insurance policy and 
refused to pay their claim.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr S took out a home insurance policy with QIC through a comparison website. 
They were then redirected to the insurers website where they confirmed the details of their 
application.
Mrs K and Mr S made a claim under the policy after the theft of jewellery from their home. 
QIC declined the claim and voided the policy due to underinsurance. Mrs K and Mr S had 
selected £20,000 worth of cover for contents, but after the theft QIC said the value of the 
items stolen was over £40,000. QIC said the policy Mrs K and Mr S took out has a limit of 
£20,000 for contents and had they have known the real value they wouldnt have offered a 
policy.  
QIC said Mrs K and Mr S answered the question about the amount of contents cover 
required incorrectly. And they considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled them to void the policy and decline the claim. QIC did however refund the 
premiums that had been paid.
Mrs K and Mr S brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought there had been a 
qualifying misrepresentation. He agreed it was a careless misrepresentation and that QIC 
was entitled to void the policy and decline the claim.
Mrs K and Mr S didnt agree with the investigator and have asked for an ombudsman 
decision. They feel they acted in good faith and they believed £20,000 was sufficient cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC thinks Mrs K and Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they declared the value of their contents.
Ive looked at the questions Mrs K and Mr S were asked when applying for the policy. On the 
comparison website they said they needed cover of up to £20,000. On the insurers website 
the question was asked Is a total of £10,000 enough to cover all valuables (each worth less 
than £2,000 or less) inside your home? Mrs K and Mr S answered no this question and 
selected cover for £20,000 from a drop down menu.
I dont think Mrs K and Mr S took reasonable care when answering these questions. The 
question made clear that the amount selected should be enough cover all valuables in the 
home. Cover for £20,000 was selected, but it turns out that the valuables were worth over 
£40,000. Mrs K and Mr S disagreed with the valuation amount saying they think the value is 
around £35,000. Either way the difference is quite substantial, and I think this means Mrs K 
and Mr S failed to take reasonable care to answer the question correctly.
QIC has provided evidence showing that had Mrs K and Mr S not made a misrepresentation 
they wouldnt have offered cover. The policy has a limit of £20,000 of cover for contents. Had 
Mrs K and Mr S entered, or attempted to enter, the correct amount of cover they required, be 
that £40,000 or £35,000, the application wouldve been rejected as it is over the policy limit 
and QIC would not have offered cover.
This means Im satisfied Mrs K and Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
QIC has said they are happy to class the misrepresentation as careless, and I agree this is 
fair. Looking at the evidence I think Mrs K and Mr S didnt make the misrepresentation 
deliberately. Classing the misrepresentation as careless allows for the most favourable 
outcome for consumers under CIDRA, so I think QIC are acting fairly by doing so.
As Im satisfied Mrs K and Mr Ss misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive 
looked at the actions QIC can take in accordance with CIDRA. 
Having done so Im satisfied QIC was entitled to void Mrs K and Mr Ss policy in accordance 
with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  their policy never existed, QIC does not 
have to deal with this claim following the theft of jewellery. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing QIC to rely on it to void 
Mrs K and Mr Ss policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Having looked at everything Im satisfied that QIC acted fairly and reasonably when dealing 
with the claim, and when making the decision to void the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman