DRN-4356444
The complaint
Miss B complains that Admiral Financial Services Limited trading as Admiral Loans (Admiral)
are holding her liable for a loan agreement she didnt enter into.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In February 2022 Admiral received an
application and subsequently issued a loan for £5,000. The loan had a term of 24 months
and the money was paid into Miss Bs bank account. Later the same month, Miss B
contacted Admiral and told them that the loan had been taken in her name without her
knowledge or consent.
She described how shed been the victim of an online scam perpetrated through social
media. Shed shared certain details with a third party who she believed was going to help her
reduce her debt and improve her credit score. She said multiple loans had been taken in her
name and shed been persuaded to pass the loan funds on to the scammer.
Admiral investigated but didnt agree that the loan was fraudulent. Being unhappy with this
outcome, Miss B raised a complaint with the support of our service.
Admiral considered the complaint but didnt change their position. One of our Investigators
looked into the complaint and ultimately concluded it was more likely than not that Miss B
had entered into the loan agreement, and so she didnt recommend that Admiral needed to
do more.
Miss B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint.
In September 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different outcome compared to that of our
Investigator. So, Im issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to
comment before finalising my decision.
Im aware of Miss Bs linked complaints about other lenders, but this complaint only relates
to Admiral. Im sorry to hear of the difficult personal circumstances Miss B has described in
recent times. And Ive no doubt of the impact the whole situation has had on her. Im pleased
to see our Investigator has already signposted Miss B to organisations who may be able to
provide further support. But my role requires that I remain impartial and reach an outcome
based on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
With that in mind, my first consideration is whether Miss B entered into the loan agreement
or whether this was done without her knowledge and consent as she alleges. Miss B has
disputed loans with several lenders and her testimony hasnt always been consistent.
There was a call in January 2022 between Miss B and her bank N. In this call Miss B
agreed she had taken loans which she later went on to dispute. The inconsistencies
between what Miss B said at the time to N and what shes later told the lenders and our
service, make it difficult for me to place a lot of weight on her testimony as reliable and
credible evidence.
So, Ive had to consider the other evidence that is available. The call Ive referred to above
that took place between N and Miss B predates the application for the Admiral loan.
Therefore the loan relevant to this complaint cant be one of those that Miss B accepted
taking during that call.
The other evidence Ive considered is a copy of a chat conversation between Miss B and the
alleged scammer where she asks why he has taken the Admiral loan in her name without
her knowledge. This documentary evidence is dated 1 February 2022 when the loan had
been agreed and shortly before it was paid into her account with N. This doesnt support that
Miss B herself entered into the agreement. Ive placed more weight on this evidence of the
chat between Miss B and the scammer as it is effectively a contemporaneous note of what
was said at the time. From what Ive seen at this point there was no motivation for Miss B to
deny knowledge of the application. Such motivation could arise at a later time, when a
person discovers theyve been the victim of a scam. And whilst I appreciate Admirals point,
that Miss B still had the opportunity at that time to cancel the loan and not receive the
payment, this doesnt change my mind as to whether she knowingly entered into the
agreement  which is the key consideration.
The evidence is compelling that by the time Miss B received the loan funds (and sent them
on), that she was well aware that it was a loan in her name. So, I think its fair for Admiral to
pursue her for the principal amount. But as I dont think she entered into the credit
agreement with Admiral, they shouldnt hold her to its terms. This means they shouldnt seek
repayment of any interest or charges in relation to the loan. I also think Admiral should
remove all reference to the loan from Miss Bs credit file.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either
Miss B or Admiral, I intend to uphold this complaint in part.
I intend to direct Admiral Financial Services Limited trading as Admiral Loans not to pursue
Miss B for more than the principal loan amount of £5,000 (less the full amount of any 
repayments already made). They should also remove reference to this loan from Miss Bs
credit file.
Admiral responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. Miss B made some further 
comments that Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has re-iterated her position that she didnt take out this loan  this is something my 
decision supports. She has also highlighted the difficult position she is currently in and that she feels unable to repay the loan. She also mentioned that the case is with the police as 
she says she was coerced into sending the money on. 
Ive considered all Miss B has said, but it doesnt change my mind as to the outcome of this 
complaint. The fact remains that the loan funds were paid to Miss B by Admiral. And the 
evidence is clear that Miss B knew the nature of those funds before she sent them on (albeit 
on the instructions of a scammer). So, in these circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be 
fair to remove Admirals ability to pursue her for the principal sum, should they choose to do 
so. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Admiral Financial Services Limited trading as Admiral Loans not to pursue
Miss B for more than the principal loan amount of £5,000 (less the full amount of any 
repayments already made). They should also remove any reference to this loan from 
Miss Bs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman