DRN-2541855
The complaint
Mr E complains that a delay in transferring his ISA held with Santander UK Plc led to his 
money losing its ISA status and tax benefits.
 
What happened
Mr E held a structured ISA plan with Santander that hed started in 2014. It was due to 
mature on 23 June 2020 and about six weeks prior to this he was sent a maturity pack, 
which gave information about his options. It was explained that Santander had to be 
provided with maturity instructions by 8 June 2020. 
Mr E called Santander on 26 May 2020 to say that he intended to transfer his ISA to another 
provider. He was told that he needed to arrange for a transfer form and other related 
documentation to be received by Santander from the new provider by 8 June 2020. 
Santander did then receive some documentation, but not until 9 June 2020, the day after the 
deadline. And the re-registration form provided by the new provider couldnt be used 
because it was for an in-specie (stock to stock) transfer. Although Mr Es maturing ISA was 
a stocks and shares ISA, it wouldve matured and be held in cash by the time it was 
transferred.  
Santander wrote to the new provider to explain that a cash transfer was required, but it 
appears that no response was received. Over the coming weeks Mr E tried to get the matter 
sorted out, eventually opening a cash ISA with Santander with the aim of transferring into 
that instead. However, despite his attempts and the help of Santanders staff, the process 
didnt complete in time and the matured cash was paid into a saver account, losing its ISA 
status.
Mr E complained to Santander, but it didnt feel it had done anything wrong. It highlighted 
that it had not received the correct documentation  including the very important new plan 
managers acceptance of the transfer  before the deadline date. And it said that it also 
hadnt received Mr Es option form from the maturity pack. It also noted that when it had 
received the incorrect documentation from the new provider it had written back the next day 
to explain what was required. 
Santander felt it had provided sufficient notice of what was required and that its staff had 
done everything they could to try to help Mr E, despite the deadline having passed when it 
first received documents and him then not getting back in contact until the day before 
maturity. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as Santander. Mr E didnt accept this, so the matter was referred to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Es frustration with the situation that arose, but I dont think Santander can be 
held responsible for the loss of ISA status of the matured funds. 
Although Mr E contacted Santander prior to the deadline date to inform it of his intended 
maturity option, the necessary paperwork was not received in time. Although documents 
were sent by the new provider, they arrived the day after the deadline and were incorrect 
and incomplete. The plan managers acceptance was not included, and the re-registration 
form was the wrong type. 
Santander alerted the new provider to this promptly but by the time it had in turn contacted 
Mr E and hed contacted Santander again it was very near the maturity date. Further it 
appears there was some confusion about what the problem was. Although the maturing ISA 
was a stocks and shares ISA, the transfer itself would be a cash transfer and this appear to 
have created the impression that the maturing ISA was a cash ISA. 
But in any event, despite the paperwork having arrived with Santander late and incomplete, 
its staff nevertheless tried to help Mr E when he contacted it the day before maturity to 
explain about the new cash ISA and his intention to try and transfer to that instead. 
Again, I understand it wouldve been frustrating that the alternative option didnt get 
processed in time, but I dont think the Santanders staff did anything wrong. I think it was 
simply a case of the process being too near to the ISAs maturity at this point.
I note what Mr Es said about other providers maturity and transfer processes. But I dont 
think Santanders process was unreasonable. Mr E was given several weeks notice of what 
would be required upon maturity.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman