DRN-2047111
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund a transaction made from his account, 
which he says he didnt make.
Mr Ss complaint was brought with the assistance of a representative, but as the account is 
in Mr Ss name  Ill refer to him throughout the decision.
What happened
In March 2019 a payment was made from Mr Ss account for £500 using his online banking 
facility.
Mr S told us he received a call from someone pretending to work for Metro. He says they 
took him through security, asked for certain details, then told him they were calling due to 
fraudulent activity on his account. They shared with him some of the places hed recently 
spent money which he says gained his trust, then asked him to share his passcode  which 
he did. He says he received a text shortly afterwards and was startled at his low account 
balance, and on checking his account found a payment had been made for £500. 
Mr S called Metro and raised a fraud claim, asking them to refund the £500.
Metro investigated Mr Ss complaint and declined to refund him saying the payment was 
made via online banking. This meant the person making the payment wouldve needed      
Mr Ss 12 digit online banking number, his password and his security number. As well as a 
One Time Passcode (OTP) which was sent to Mr Ss registered mobile number. Also, the 
payment was to a new payee that was set up using the 16 digit long number from the front of 
Mr Ss card as well as an OTP. Metro said they couldnt see how Mr Ss online banking 
details and phone were compromised, based on what hed told them.
Mr S wasnt happy with Metros response, so he brought a complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and requested some additional information from 
Mr S about what happened, due to some discrepancies.
 
During calls with Metro Mr S had initially told them he hadnt received any suspicious calls, 
emails or texts. In later calls Mr S told Metro that he had received a call two weeks before 
the payment was made, but that he only provided his 12 digit customer number  although 
he wasnt sure if he provided the whole number or only some of the numbers. He said that 
when he was asked for the security number and password he ended the call, as he was 
being asked for too much information. 
Whereas Mr S initially told us that he was tricked into making the payment during the phone 
call with someone pretending to work for Metro, and that he gave them his OTP.
In response to the investigators request we were told that Mr S did give the passcode out to 
the caller, but that he didnt remember this when he initially spoke to Metro about the fraud. 
He said it was during later calls when Metro asked him additional questions that his memory 
was jogged as to what had happened. And the reason he hadnt shared this with Metro was 
because theyd told him he wouldnt be refunded if he had shared his information.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. They didnt feel the payment was so unusual 
and out of character that they wouldve expected it to flag with Metro, so Metro couldnt 
reasonably be expected to have stopped it. And that Metro had got in touch with the 
beneficiary bank as soon as Mr S reported the fraud, but the funds had already been 
withdrawn by the recipient meaning Metro were unable to recover Mr Ss funds.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying we hadnt ascertained how his details 
were compromised in order for the payment to be made. He felt Metro had failed to keep his 
personal details safe and therefore should be held responsible. Also, that Metro hadnt done 
enough to trace where the payment went to.
The investigator responded to Mr S explaining that there was no evidence to suggest that  
Mr Ss details were leaked or compromised because of the actions of Metro.
 
As Mr S disagreed, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same answer as the investigator for these reasons:
Its unclear how Mr Ss personal details and security information were compromised, 
but there is no evidence that suggests this was due to Metros actions or a breach of 
their system. Fraudsters can obtain personal and account information in a number of 
different ways. Also, its not entirely clear how much information Mr S shared with the 
person who called him pretending to work for Metro.
I appreciate that its a lot of money for Mr S, but the payment of £500 wasnt so 
unusual or out of character that I wouldve expected it to flag with Metro. Therefore, I 
wouldnt expect Metro to have contacted Mr S or intervened prior to processing the 
payment. And I cant see how Metro couldve prevented this payment from being 
made. Especially as an OTP was sent to Mr Ss registered mobile phone number and 
was used to authorise the payment from Mr Ss account. 
From what Ive seen Metro contacted the beneficiary bank as soon as they were 
made aware Mr S had been the victim of fraud. Unfortunately no funds could be 
recovered as they had been withdrawn from the recipients account the prior day. So 
there was nothing more I wouldve expected Metro to do in trying to recover the 
funds.
I appreciate that Mr S would like to know how his details and information were compromised, 
but our role isnt to find an answer to that question. In reaching a decision on this case, I 
have to look at Metros actions and whether or not they have acted fairly and reasonably, or 
if there is anything more I wouldve expected them to do in the circumstances.
Having considered everything, I cant fairly say that Metro couldve or shouldve done 
anything to prevent this payment being made, therefore I cant fairly ask them to refund       
Mr S.
 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman