DRN-1622624
 
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy because Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has declined a claim under his 
travel insurance policy. 
Any reference to Aviva also refers to their agents.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr W travelled to France for a holiday. During the trip, an awning attached to 
his motor home, was damaged. 
Mr W contacted Aviva to make a claim under his travel insurance policy for the value of the 
damaged awning. When taking the details of the claim, the call handler suggested the 
awning would be covered. However, upon further consideration, Aviva declined Mr Ws 
claim.
Mr W complained to Aviva. They said the awning was a fixture of his motor home so it 
couldnt be considered a personal belonging under the terms of the policy. They advised Mr 
W to contact the providers of his motorhome insurance policy instead. However due to the 
incorrect information given at the time of registering the claim, namely that the awning would 
be covered, Aviva offered £50 compensation to Mr W. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr W referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld for similar reasons as Aviva. They said the 
awning was a fixture of the motorhome given it needed to be professional removed and not 
an item that could be carried. They believed Aviva fairly declined the claim in line with the 
terms of the policy.
Mr W disagreed as he believed there was ambiguity over the travel insurance definition of 
'possessions and he said Aviva had differing opinions which is why he was first told the 
awning would be covered. He said the awning didnt have to be professionally removed, he 
could do this himself. Lastly he disagreed with investigators interpretation that a personal 
belonging was an item that could be carried.
So the matter has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive considered the terms of the policy. Under personal baggage cover, it says We will cover 
you for the loss, theft or accidental damage to your personal belongings and valuables 
during your trip. In the event of a successful claim, the terms say the most the policy will pay 
is £1,500 per insured person, but no more than £400 for any one article.Firstly, I think its important to note that personal belongings is not defined by the policy. So 
Ive considered whether Aviva acted fair and reasonably by saying Mr Ws awning cant be 
considered as one.  
To do this, Ive thought about what a person would reasonably expect a personal belonging 
to be in the context of a travel insurance  this may typically include items such as clothes, 
shoes, personal electronic devices, pushchairs, etc.
A dictionary definition says personal belongings are items that belong to someone and that 
are small enough to be carried. Other travel insurance policies often define personal 
belongings as luggage, its contents, valuables and anything you wear or carry with you 
when travelling, which belongs to you.
Mr W has provided documents which suggest the awning measures approximately four 
metres in length. Its an attachable accessory which is fixed to the exterior of the motor 
home. Its primary use is in connection with the motorhome and it cant be used 
independently. So on that basis, I believe Aviva acted fairly by saying it cant be considered 
a personal belonging under the terms of this particular policy.
Ive also thought about the list of items in the policy which is considered valuables. It lists 
items such as jewellery, precious stones and mobile phones. An awning isnt specifically 
listed. Even so, I dont think itd be fair or reasonable for me to suggest that Aviva should 
consider it as a valuable under the terms of the policy alongside items such as this.
Having reviewed the rest of the policy terms, I cant see any other cover which Mr W could 
make a claim for his damaged awning. Mr W might want to review his other insurance 
policies such as home or motor to see if they would cover this particular claim.
Overall, I am satisfied Aviva acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms of the 
policy in declining Mr Ws claim. I understand this will come as a disappointment for Mr W, 
especially after he was initially told it would be covered.  However, Aviva has offered £50 
compensation for this error and I believe this is fair in the circumstances so I wont be asking 
Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Simona Charles
Ombudsman