DRN-3543528
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made on his
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Towards the end of 2019 Mr B booked a holiday abroad to a country Ill refer to as A. His
flight was due to depart the UK on 1 March 2020 and his return flight was booked for the end
of March 2020. Also, on 1 March 2020, Mr B took out a single trip last minute travel
insurance policy, underwritten by URV (the policy). The policy covered the dates of his trip
to A.
On 23 March 2020, whilst in A, Mr Bs return flight to the UK was cancelled by the airline.
He managed to arrange another indirect flight back to the UK on 27 March 2020, but that
flight was also subsequently cancelled due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. He
eventually booked a return flight on 5 April 2020 and returned to the UK the next day.
During his extended trip, Mr B stayed with a family member who lived in A and he says he
paid them some money to cover his prolonged stay. Mr B managed to get a refund for the
return flight to the UK hed originally booked, and also the other flight booked for 27 March
2020 but also cancelled. Mr B made a claim on the policy for the cost of his return flight to
the UK (less the amount he was able to recover from the airline for the original return flight
hed booked) and daily diems.
URV declined the claim. It said the circumstances which led to the claim werent covered
under the section of the policy terms and conditions entitled: if a major incident occurs while
you were away (the trip disruption section of the policy). Thats because it said that the
circumstances didnt amount to a major incident.
Unhappy, Mr B complained to URV. URV maintained its position, so he referred a complaint
to our service. Our investigator didnt think URV had fairly declined a claim under the trip
disruption section of the policy. In his view the Covid-19 pandemic amounted to a major
incident. Our investigator recommended URV pay Mr Bs out of pocket expenses for the
return flight to the UK and a certain amount of money to cover his daily expenses, paid to the
family member he stayed with. He said URV could deduct the £100 policy excess from the
amount paid.
URV disagreed. In summary URV said its unreasonable to interpret an act of nature to
include Covid-19. And even if Covid-19 could be said to be an act of nature, it didnt first
arise during Mr Bs trip. 
This complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. I issued my 
provisional decision in June 2022 explaining in more detail why I was also intending to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. And why I was intending to direct URV to reassess his claim on the 
basis that a major incident includes the Covid-19 pandemic and is covered under the trip 
disruption section of the policy.
An extract of my provisional decision is set out below:
.
URV has an obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline an insurance claim.
The policy provides cover if Mr Bs trip was disrupted due to a major incident. Pages 16 and
17 of the policy terms and conditions set out the section if a major incident happens when
you are away. It says:
If your trip was disrupted due to a major incident.
This is what we will do:
We will pay you up to:
- £1,000 for reasonable additional travel expenses to enable you to return home,
or move to a safer area.
- £100 for each 24-hour period for up to a maximum of £700 for additional
accommodation.
- £30 for each 24-hour period for food up to a maximum of £210.
- £150 for the emergency replenishment of baby essentials or prescription
medication, if your existing supplies run out during the period that you are
delayed.
Deductible amount is £100 per person, per incident
Trip in this section is defined as: travel during the period of insurance.
Mr B bought the policy on 1 March 2020. The trip was booked at the end of 2019 and began
on 1 March 2020. So, Im satisfied that travel took place during the period of insurance. From
what Ive seen, Im also satisfied that Mr Bs trip was disrupted due to the Covid-19
pandemic and thats what ultimately led to his pre-booked return flight to the UK being
cancelled by the airline. So, the crux of the issue for me to determine is whether the Covid-
19 pandemic can fairly and reasonably be said to amount to a major incident.
Under the trip disruption section of the policy, major incident is defined as:
war, invasion, acts of foreign enemy, hostilities or warlike operation (whether war be
declared or not), civil war, mutiny, military rising, insurrection, rebellion, revolution,
military or usurped power, climatic conditions, volcanic eruption and other acts of
nature which first arise during your trip
But the phrase other acts of nature isnt defined under the policy. And in the absence of the
phrase being defined by the policy, Ive carefully considered whether URV has fairly and
reasonably concluded that this phrase doesnt include a virus pandemic. For the reasons Ive
set out below, I dont think it has.
The dictionary definition
Ive first taken into account the definition of nature in the Cambridge English Dictionary.
Although not definitive, I think its relevant that nature is defined as all the animals, plants,
rocks, etc. in the world and all the features, forces, and processes that happen or exist
independently of people, such as the weather, the sea, mountains, the production of younganimals or plants, and growth.
So, the dictionary definition doesnt expressly include a microscopic virus. However, I think
the definition  taken as a whole  is wide enough to include it. After all, a virus is organic
material that invades living cells and uses its chemical machinery to exist and to replicate
itself. As such, a virus could be viewed as part of the natural world. And given that the policy
doesnt define nature or other acts of nature, I dont think the policy contradicts the
dictionary definition of nature.
The legal position
Investors Compensation Scheme Limited v West Bromwich Building Society and Others is
relevant caselaw which sets out several principles for the construction of contracts (the
principles). They include:
Interpretation is the ascertainment of the meaning which the document would convey
to a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would
reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they were at
the time of the contract.
That background knowledge is subject to the requirement that it should have been 
reasonably available to the parties and that it is not part of previous negotiations 
between the parties. It includes anything which would have affected the way in which 
the language of the document would have been understood by a reasonable person.
The meaning which a document (or any other utterance) would convey to a 
reasonable person is not the same thing as the meaning of its words. The meaning of 
words is a matter of dictionaries and grammars; the meaning of the document is what 
the parties using those words against the relevant background would reasonably 
have been understood to mean.
The rule that words should be given their natural and ordinary meaning reflects 
the commonsense proposition that we do not easily accept that people have made 
linguistic mistakes, particularly in formal documents. On the other hand, if one would 
nevertheless conclude from the background that something must have gone wrong 
with the language, the law does not require judges to attribute to the parties an 
intention which they plainly could not have had.
The policy was taken out on 1 March 2020. Applying the principles to the policy, its possible
that the parties did have the global spread of a microscopic virus in mind when entering into
the contract of insurance. After all, Covid-19 had started spreading amongst the human
population at the time of entering into the contract.
I also think a reasonable person with all knowledge of the background at the time of entering
the insurance contract could reasonably conclude that other acts of nature would
encompass all aspects of the natural world  including viruses. And different types of
coronaviruses have emerged over the years and have affected certain countries along with
other viruses such as the Zika virus and Ebola. Im persuaded this is something the parties
wouldve been aware of at the time of entering into the contract of insurance.
Although, not legal authority arising out of the courts of England and Wales, the US District
Court in the Southern District of New York in JN Contemporary Art LLC v Phillips
Auctioneers LCC (No. 20-CV-4370) held that [i]t cannot seriously be disputed that the
Covid-19 pandemic is a natural disaster for the purposes of a force majeure clause in anauction agreement which expressly referred to natural disasters. I dont think thats
inconsistent with the spread of a microscopic virus falling within the definition of an act of
nature.
Ive also taken into account the rules of language applied by the courts which say that a
sweeping up phrase will be of the same type as the previous specific provisions set out in
the clause. Applying the rules of language to the policy definition of major incident could
lead to the conclusion that the sweeping up phrase of any other acts of nature at the end of
the definition includes only acts of nature along the lines of volcanic eruption and climactic
conditions, not microscopic viruses (such as Covid-19). However, the curtailment section of
the policy, separately defines natural disaster. And when defining major disruption in the trip
disruption section of the policy, URV couldve included the term other natural disasters but
didnt. The phrase other acts of nature was used. If it had instead referred to natural
disasters when defining major disruption, then this may have been clearer for the
policyholder to understand. So, in this case, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and
reasonable to equate other acts of nature with the term natural disaster  as defined by the
policy.
Having considered all of the above, and in the absence of being separately defined
elsewhere in the policy, I think the phrase other acts of nature has more than one meaning.
Im also satisfied that the policy terms and conditions amount to a consumer contract. So, I
think The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) is a relevant consideration here.
Section 69(1) of the CRA says: If a term in a consumer contract, or a consumer notice,
could have different meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer is to
prevail. The meaning most favourable to Mr B would be that the phrase other acts of
nature includes microscopic viruses such as Covid-19.
Other relevant considerations
When deciding whether URV has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr Bs
complaint, Ive not only considered relevant law. Rule 3.6.4R of the Dispute Resolution
Rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook says, when considering whats
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, I should take into account: the
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice
and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses, which URV must follow, including that a firm must:
-conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2).
-pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
-pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate information to
them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading (Principle 7).
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers of financial
services in certain circumstances to do to ensure that customers are treated fairly. And this
Guide explains that firms should take account of what information the customer needs to
understand the product or service, its purpose and the risks, and communicate information in
a way that is clear, fair and not misleading.
I also think its good industry practice for underwriters of travel insurance policies to clearly
set out the terms on which someone is insured, including what they are and arent coveredfor. And they ought to provide clear definitions of any words or phrases which could be
ambiguous and have various different meanings. Ive explained above why I consider the
phrase other acts of nature to be ambiguous and, without the phrase being separately
defined, that it has different interpretations.
Overall, Im satisfied that its fair to conclude that URV hasnt acted fairly and reasonably by
declining Mr Bs claim under the travel disruption section of the policy in the circumstances
of this case. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for the phrase other acts of nature to
include the Covid-19 pandemic.
The policy exclusions
The trip disruption section of the policy also goes on to list what isnt covered and that
includes if: you booked your trip, or travelled after the announcement of a major incident.
Ill refer to this as the exclusion.
Under the policy, travelled isnt separately defined but Im satisfied that it would be fair and
reasonable to interpret this as the date of travel from the UK. The travel disruption section of
the policy expressly provides cover for: up to £1,000 for reasonable additional travel
expenses to enable you to return home or move to a safer area. So, if travelled in the
context of the exclusion is interpreted more widely to include all travel  including travel back
to the UK after the announcement of a major incident - then a policyholder is unlikely to ever
be able to claim on the policy for a return flight home after a major incident is announced.
Even though there is separate cover for such a scenario under the policy.
Im also satisfied that the announcement of Covid-19 being a major incident first took place
on 11 March 2020. Although, there were reports of people contracting Covid-19 before
Mr B travelled on 1 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) didnt declare
Covid-19 as a pandemic until 11 March 2020. So, I dont think the exclusion is applicable to
the circumstances of this complaint, as Mr B booked his trip - and his outbound flight
departed the UK - before the WHO announcement on 11 March 2020.
.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B replied saying he was happy with my provisional decision, but he restated his losses 
and what hed like URV to do to put things right. URV had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B was happy with my provisional decision and URV had nothing further to add, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings set out above. 
I therefore uphold Mr Bs complaint for the reasons fully set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Mr B would like URV to pay his claim outright under the trip disruption part of the policy. 
However, I direct URV to assess Mr Bs claim on the basis that a major incident includes 
the Covid-19 pandemic and is covered under the trip disruption section of the policy. Thats because the claim is subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  including 
(but not limited to) the financial limits of this section of the policy and any applicable excess.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right as Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman