DRN-3396725
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tilney Financial Planning Limited previously trading as Edward Jones 
Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his pensions to a Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP).
All references to Tilney will include information provided by, and actions of, Edward Jones. 
Further, Mr B is being represented by a Claims Management Company. 
All references to Mr B will include information and submissions provided by his 
representative.
What happened
Mr B established a SIPP with Suffolk Life in 2008. Two SIPPs, both with Suffolk Life, were 
set up at that time as legislation didnt allow for protected and non-protected rights to be held 
together. The two plans were merged in January 2019 following legislative changes. 
The SIPPs were set up following advice from Tilney which started in on around June 2007. 
At the time of the advice, Mr B held an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) (non-
protected) and two personal pension plans with Standard Life, one of which was non-
protected (SL1) and the other had protected benefits (SL2). Collectively Ill refer to these 
as the SL plans. The total transfer value of all the pension plans held by Mr B, was 
estimated to be around £84,000.
The Tilney adviser (the adviser) completed a number of documents including a fact find, 
an attitude to risk questionnaire and suitability letters dated 17 December 2007 and 
8 January 2008. 
The adviser recorded Mr Bs circumstances as follows:
He was 43 years old and employed.
He was married with three children who were all financially dependent on him.
His annual income was £50,000 before tax.
He was in good health.
He home was valued of £350,000 with a mortgage of £155,000. 
He had cash of £7,000 for emergency purposes.
He had pensions valued at around £84,000.
The adviser set out Mr Bs responses to his attitude to risk, which included the following:
Reducing potential losses is more important than achieving high returns. From the 
options of strongly agree, agree, somewhat disagree and disagree, Mr B answered 
he agreed.
How comfortable are you with risk. Mr B said he was moderate risk, moderate 
return.
Mr B chose the following statement to describe his investment philosophy: I dont 
mind periodic fluctuation in the value of my portfolio, but I would prefer to avoid a 
portfolio that has the potential to generate big losses.
In answer to what the most appropriate portfolio for him would be, Mr B said he 
wanted one which was focused on growth.
The adviser categorised Mr Bs attitude to risk as medium, which he said meant he (Mr B), 
was prepared to accept some risk of financial loss of his pension funds in order to have the 
potential to receive a higher pension. And he was prepared to have a substantial proportion 
of his investments and retirement funds invested in equities.
The adviser said Mr Bs main objective was to provide for his retirement at age 60 and he 
wanted to invest for growth. And that Mr B placed particular importance on the following:
Greater flexibility and control of choosing from a wide range of investments.
Consolidating his pensions into a single pension plan.
The ability to invest his retirement funds in a tax-efficient manner.
To grow his investments to meet his income needs.
To appoint a Financial Adviser to help with the management of his pension funds.
The adviser noted that given Mr Bs annual income and his expenditure, he (Mr B) wasnt 
intending to make any further contributions towards his retirement savings. The information 
from the OPS said Mr B was a preserved member and confirmed he wasnt making any 
contributions. The adviser said his advice to Mr B was that he should contribute into his 
existing occupation pension scheme as these may provide added options.
The adviser noted that Mr B wanted to retire at age 60 with a yearly income of £45,690 net 
of tax. The adviser said assuming Mr B retired in seventeen years (from 2007/ 2008), the 
annual shortfall in income with his current OPS, SL1 and SL2 arrangements, was likely to be 
around £23,348 per year.
The adviser said Mr Bs current arrangements didnt meet his needs and priorities because: 
Your current policy offers eleven different funds to choose from. However, it does not offer 
direct investment into equities, corporate bonds, gilts and property. I understand that you 
wish to take an active role in managing your pensions by building a portfolio of investments 
in relation to your risk tolerance by your financial adviser. The adviser also said Mr B 
wanted to consolidate his pensions into a single pension plan.
The adviser also noted that: It is important to recognise that fund performance is never 
guaranteed. For this reason, [Tilney] does not recommend that clients transfer solely on the 
basis of performance.
The adviser recommended Mr B switch his pension plans to a Suffolk Life MasterSIPP (the 
SIPP) The adviser said the SIPP met with Mr Bs medium risk tolerance. The adviser went 
on to explain that a SIPP would allow Mr B to make his own investment decisions such as 
equities, mutual funds, gilts, and corporate bonds. He also noted that upon retirement, up to 
25% of the accumulated pension fund could be taken as a tax-free cash lump sum. 
The adviser said Mr Bs OPS allowed him a tax-free cash entitlement of £11,609 based on a 
fund value of £43,005. The adviser went on to say (bold Tilneys emphasis): This represents 
26.99%. This excess entitlement is protected under your current plan and will be lost 
should you decide to transfer out of your current scheme.The adviser also noted: As part of our transfer analysis we typically compare the projected 
fund values of your current policy with those which might be achieved under an alternative 
policy. The adviser went on to say that because the OPS charged £300 to produce 
projections, it was unable to obtain this information for comparison purposes. The adviser 
noted however, that the OPS didnt have an administration fee or fund management charge 
for scheme members. The only charges paid were the annual fund management charges.
The adviser gave Mr B information about the different types of pension arrangements he 
could transfer into which were a stakeholder pension, personal pension, or a SIPP. But in 
the case of the first two options, the adviser noted that whilst they had lower fees, Mr B 
would not have as much investment choice as a SIPP. The adviser said that as this was 
Mr Bs main objective, he (the adviser) wasnt recommending the first two options. The 
adviser also noted that when considering transferring, Mr B would lose his entitlement to the 
excess tax-free cash which he was entitled to under his OPS.
The adviser made the following investment recommendations:
Invesco Perpetual Monthly Income Plus - £14,000
Invesco Perpetual High Income - £12,000
Standard Life UK Equity High Income  £10,000
Mellon Newton High Income - £7,000
Capital International European Equity - £7,000
Fidelity Inv European - £8,000
Standard Life UK Equity Growth - £8,000
Standard Life European Equity Growth - £5,000
Resolutions Pacific Growth  £4,000
Threadneedle European Smaller Companies - £4,000
Threadneedle Latin America - £4,000
Cash on Deposit - £2,000
In terms of the charges that applied to the SIPP the adviser noted that: Charges for a SIPP 
are generally more expensive than other investment products or personal pensions. Mr B 
was provided with details of the fees that applied to the SIPP.
The adviser provided Mr B with illustrations which set out what Mr B could receive at age 60 
depending on particular rates of growth. The illustrations also set out information about the 
fees and the impact of these on the growth of the funds. It should be noted that the 
illustrations were based on a total transfer value of £85,700 whereas Mr Bs total transfer 
value by the time he transferred was £81,829. As Mr Bs plans were being split into two 
SIPPs to hold the non-protected benefits (OPS and SL1) and the protected benefits (SL2), 
an illustration was provided for each SIPP. Ive combined these totals in the tables below:
Investment growth 5% per year (£) 7% per year (£) 9% per year (£)
Estimated total value of funds 140,000 192,000 262,700
Providing a pension annuity of 6,260 11,110 18,820
Or
Total tax-free cash lump sum 34,900 48,100 65,700
and a reduced pension annuity of 4,700 8,330 14,170
Amongst other charges, the illustration showed the SIPP would be subject to the following:
0.25% (plus VAT) annual service fee payable to Tilney  this was capped at £1,000.
Establishment fee to Tilney of £100.
Annual administration fee of £240.Initial transaction fees of £2,323 (for both SIPPs).
1.5% payable on mutual funds of which 0.5% is paid to Tilney.
The transfer into the SIPP was follows (total £81,829):
SL1 - £5,916 (non-protected rights)
SL2 - £30,520 (net) (protected rights)
OPS - £45,393 (protected rights)
By the time of Mr Bs complaint in 2019, the SIPPs value was £127,032. Amongst other 
things, Mr B made the following points in his complaint to Tilney:
The adviser told Mr B that he (Mr B) would make more money by transferring. He has 
actually suffered losses as a result of the advice.
He was told hed be investing in low risk investments and he should not worry as his 
returns that were likely to be really high.
Tilneys advice was negligent for a number of reasons including that it hadnt 
adequately assessed Mr Bs attitude to risk and it hadnt provided him with sufficient 
information about the risks he would be taking with his pension funds. 
The investments chosen for Mr B were only for more sophisticated investors.
He wasnt fully told about the charges that applied.
Tilney rejected the complaint and in summary, it made the following points:
The allegations it had been negligent was unfounded. 
Theres no evidence Mr B suffered a loss as a result of its advice.
The fact find shows Tilney took sufficient steps to establish Mr Bs full circumstances 
before providing him with advice and when assessing his attitude to risk. 
Mr B was correctly categorised a medium risk investor based on his responses to its 
questions about his investment experience.
Theres no evidence that its adviser had told Mr B he would make more money if he 
transferred. Or that he was told he would be investing in low risk investments. 
Its illustrations made it clear the level of investment growth wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr B was told his retirement income would depend on, amongst other things, 
investment growth.
Tilney was astounded that Mr B could suggest the SIPP was only suitable for 
sophisticated investors. It said the funds and investments recommended were 
suitable for Mr B.
In terms of the charges Mr B was provided with a full list of the charges.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. In terms of the SL plans, she noted 
that part of this came with valuable guarantees. From information provided by Standard Life 
this showed that prior to the transfer, Mr B was invested in the following funds:
Pension With-Profits Fund (Pension WP fund)
Standard Life Managed Pension Fund
Pension Millennium With-Profits Fund (Millennium WP fund)
The Pension WP fund was guaranteed to grow by at least 4% a year before charges. The 
Millennium WP fund had a guarantee that it would not fall. Standard Life aimed to increase it 
over time by adding bonuses therefore increasing its value. Our investigator said these guarantees werent mentioned in the suitability letters, and there 
was no justification given as to why the transfer was suitable by giving these up. She also 
didnt think Mr B was given sufficient information to make an informed choice about whether 
to transfer his OPS plan. She thought it was likely that Mr B would not have transferred from 
these plans if his attention had been drawn to their respective benefits. Our investigator 
recommended that Tilney carry out a loss assessment based on the notional values of the 
previous pension plans. And that it should pay Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
it caused to his pension planning.
Tilney disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, it said: 
Its advice was suitable as it met with Mr Bs objectives, particularly in respect of the 
income he was seeking to reach by age 60. 
When Mr B transferred he was mostly invested in equities and Tilney considers he 
was happy to with this level of risk, which it classified at medium, because he would 
helped him to make up some or all of the £23,000 per annum shortfall in his desired 
future retirement income.
Mr B had approximately £30,000 (35%) of his total pension fund split between the 
Pension WP fund (£20,000) and the Millennium WP fund (£10,000). Information from 
the provider of the SL plans shows that at time of the advice, Mr B wouldve been 
aware the Pension WP fund had provided growth of 4% for the preceding three 
years. And the Millennium WP fund 3.25%, 2.5% and 2% over the same period. This 
meant the performance of both funds were below the lowest regulatory illustrative 
figure of 5%. So, it looked very unlikely if Mr B remained invested in these WP funds 
he would be able to reach his desired amount of retirement income. This was a very 
strong reason for Mr B accepting its advice. 
By also combining the OPS funds and investing in accordance with a medium 
attitude to risk, Mr B had more chance of meeting his target retirement income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, I understand 
that all the parties involved in this complaint, have raised a number of points during their 
contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point theyve raised, Ive 
considered everything the parties have said but limited my findings to the areas which 
impact on the outcome of the case.
At the time of the advice, the relevant regulations under COBS (Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook) 9.2.1 (R) said that when assessing suitability the firm needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a decision to trade, is 
suitable for its client. Firms were also required to make sure the information provided to 
clients was clear, fair and not misleading. 
The main concern I have in terms of Tilneys advice, is the lack of comparative analysis 
between the recommended SIPP and the pension benefits Mr B would be giving up. For 
example, in terms of the OPS he wasnt told about the potential projections for this pension 
because it would cost £300 to get this information from the OPS administrators. But given he 
was being told that moving to a more expensive plan was suitable for him, I think this 
information was critical to deciding whether the transfer was in his best interests. It was also 
important as it would have helped Mr B make an informed choice.Whilst the OPS wasnt a defined benefit scheme, Mr B did give up an enhanced tax-free 
cash element by transferring. As our investigator said, the suitability report doesnt really say 
why this was worth giving up. In terms of the SL plans, these contained valuable guarantees 
that applied to around £30,000 of Mr Bs pension funds. Around £20,000 of this was 
guaranteed to grow by at least 4% a year. In respect of around £10,000, it was guaranteed 
not to fall and bonuses were added to ensure this didnt decrease in value. From what I can 
see, these guarantees werent discussed in any of the suitability letters. 
According to Tilney Mr B wouldve been aware of the growth that had happened in the three 
years prior to the advice. Its unclear how much Mr B knew about these guarantees as no 
record was made of discussions around this. It also doesnt explain why the adviser didnt 
include this as part of the advice. I think the adviser needed to give Mr B sufficient 
information such that it allowed him to make an informed choice. The adviser also needed to 
ensure the recommendation was based on all of the significant advantages/ disadvantages 
of transferring. I consider giving up guarantees at whatever level, was a clear disadvantage 
that needed to be considered before deciding the transfer was suitable for Mr B.
It should be borne in mind that by transferring, Mr B was increasing the costs involved in 
managing his pension plans. Mr B was provided with clear guidance as to what these fees 
were, and the impact on the investment through the illustration documents provided to him. 
But there was no comparison made of the impact of the (lower) fees if hed stayed with his 
previous providers. So, I dont think there was sufficient information to show there were clear 
benefits to Mr B transferring from his lower cost pension plans to the higher cost SIPP. 
I consider before making the recommendation to transfer, the reasons for switching needed 
to be sound. So, amongst other things, the potential to be better off had to be enough to 
more than compensate for the risks that Mr B might end up worse off. Given the lack of 
comparison with Mr Bs current arrangements, the advice he was given doesnt strike me as 
being a particularly comprehensive assessment of the options available to him.
Tilney points out the returns from the WP funds were performing below the lowest regulatory 
illustrative figure of 5%. So, in its view, it looked very unlikely that if Mr B had remained 
invested in these funds, he wouldve been able to reach his desired retirement income. But 
as the adviser said at the time of the advice: It is important to recognise that fund 
performance is never guaranteed. For this reason, [Tilney] does not recommend that clients 
transfer solely on the basis of performance. 
Further, even with the highest illustrative figure, it was unlikely Mr B wouldve reached his 
desired yearly retirement income of £45,690 net. None of the illustrations provided to him 
showed that his income with the SIPP, would reach anywhere near this figure. I accept the 
illustrations didnt take into account what Mr B would have received in state pension benefits, 
but as Tilney has said, whichever option Mr B had chosen, there would have been a 
shortfall. And as it also said, the returns in its illustrations werent guaranteed. So, Im not 
persuaded that transferring was the best option for him particularly taking into account the 
higher fees and increased risks.
In terms of the risks, Mr B was categorised as a medium risk investor. The adviser said this 
meant Mr B was prepared to: have a substantial proportion of [his] investment and 
retirement funds invested in equities. But I think he was on the cautious end of the medium 
risk category. Mr B had very little investment experience. And he didnt have much of a 
capacity for loss. His total pension savings at age 43 was around £82,000 and he was 
unable to make any further contributions to his pension. His only other assets were his family 
home and £7,000 in cash for emergencies. Given his circumstances, I dont think Mr B could 
afford to take the increased risks that came with having a substantial proportion of his 
retirement funds invested in equities.Ive considered whether the other objectives as set out in the suitability report, made the 
recommendation suitable for Mr B. His main objectives were that he wanted to consolidate 
his pension plans and also have more choice in the types of investments he could access. 
Tilney says by combining the pension funds and investing in accordance with a medium 
attitude to risk, Mr B had more chance of meeting his target retirement income. 
However, I dont think having a wider range of investment choices made the 
recommendation suitable. I dont consider this objective outweighed the benefits of having 
guaranteed returns. And whilst transferring to the SIPP gave Mr B a wider range of 
investments to choose from, it also came with increased risks. 
That said, I can see Mr Bs SIPP did consist of a mix of equities and funds that invested in 
bonds/ gilts. I dont agree these were only suitable for more sophisticated investors as Mr B 
says. But moving to a SIPP involved increased costs compared with his previous plans. As 
Ive said, I dont think its clear this increase in costs outweighed the loss of the guarantees 
and/ or the loss of an OPS that had a selection of at least eleven funds.
Whilst Tilney says Mr B was satisfied with the objectives in the suitability letters and had 
agreed to them, I think its the advisers responsibility to give the consumer suitable advice. 
Just because Mr B was attracted to the features of the SIPP when he was told about them, 
doesnt mean he needed it  or shouldve been recommended it. Looking at Mr Bs past 
investment experience, which seems to be mostly through his pension plans, Im not 
persuaded that having access to a wider range of investments was a priority for him. 
In terms of the consolidating objective, the adviser gave no clear reasoning as to the benefits 
of this for Mr B. This is particularly the case, given the protected and non-protected rights 
had to be split into two separate SIPPs. Whilst they were with the same provider, I cant see 
what tangible benefit it was to Mr B to have his pension plans with one provider. 
Turning now to what Mr B would have done if hed been properly advised, from what I can 
see Mr B was simply taking the opportunity to take advice about his pension policies. There 
didnt appear to be any particular urgency to transfer. He first sought advice in June 2007, 
but he only transferred the following year. 
As Ive said, I cant see that Mr B had much in the way of investment experience, so I think 
this made him particularly reliant on the advice of the adviser. Overall, I think if Mr B had 
been given a suitable recommendation along with all the information about the respective 
advantages/ disadvantages of transferring as Ive set out above, I think its more likely than 
not he would have followed the advice to stay with his current provider.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I take the view that Mr B would have 
remained with his previous providers. Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable in this situation.
What must Tilney Financial Planning Limited do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Tilney Financial Planning Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
If the notional values of the previous provider(s) are not available for any reason, 
then the benchmark to be used is for half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds.
Tilney Financial Planning Limited should add interest as set out below.
Tilney Financial Planning Limited should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If Tilney Financial Planning Limited is unable to pay the total amount into Mr B's 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay 
into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt 
a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction 
after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience to his retirement planning. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Tilney Financial Planning Limited deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Tilney 
Financial Planning Limited should give Mr B a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From 
(start date)To 
(end date)Additional 
interest
The Suffolk Life 
MasterSIPP Still exists and 
liquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providersDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investments at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr B's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the end date. Tilney Financial Planning Limited should request that the previous provider 
calculate this value. As set out above, if the notional values of the previous providers are 
not available for any reason, then the benchmark to be used is for half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds
Any withdrawal from the Suffolk Life MasterSIPP should be deducted from the notional 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid, so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Tilney Financial Planning Limited totals all those payments 
and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting 
periodically.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Tilney Financial Planning Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. Tilney Financial Planning Limited should provide 
details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B either to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman