DRN-2444226
The complaint
Miss H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time as Abbey National) 
mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out by Miss H in 1994. The 
policy was sold in a meeting. Miss H was covered against accidents, sickness and 
unemployment. The last mortgage that the MPPI policy covered ended in 2005. The MPPI 
policy also was cancelled in 2005.
Miss H says she was mis-sold the MPPI policy. She says it was applied without her 
knowledge or she was told the policy was compulsory. She says she wouldnt have gone 
into the branch to take out an MPPI policy. She says the costs were not made clear to her.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
It is not clear when the first mortgage covered by the policy was arranged, whether this was 
at the same time as when the MPPI policy was taken in 1994 or before this date. Both 
parties have not been able to recollect this or having any supporting documentation that 
would let us know what happened here. But this is understandable due to the many years 
that has passed since. Santander has provided a screenshot that shows Miss H took out 
MPPI in a branch in 1994. So, although I do not know when the mortgage was originally 
taken out, I do know that Miss H was sold an MPPI policy in a branch in 1994, so I will 
proceed on that basis.
I have decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Here are my reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Miss H were given a choice to have the MPPI 
policy. This has been a difficult issue for me to consider as I havent been able to see the 
sales documentation that would have been used at the time. 
I have though considered what I know of sales that happened at that time and also read 
Miss Hs recollections. Having done this, I cant be sure what was discussed between 
Miss H and Santander during the meeting. Its completely understandable that Miss Hs 
recollections are not detailed and as I have already said the sale took place many years 
ago. And because of this and considering what I know of sales carried out by Santander 
at that time, I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say Santander 
didnt explain that MPPI was an optional feature in the meeting. I havent, on this 
occasion, seen enough evidence to be able to safely draw that conclusion.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Miss H or not 
during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure the policy 
was suitable for her. On looking at the very limited information provided and also taking 
into consideration what the parties have said, and what I know of Santander sales during 
this time, I think advice was given.
And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Miss H. I say 
this after considering Miss Hs circumstances at the time of sale. Because, although she 
says she would have had 6 months sick pay, the MPPI policy would have paid out in 
addition to her means and for longer (36 months per claim for accidents and sickness). 
Having the policy in place would mean Miss H could use any provisions she may have 
had to cover other expenses. So, I think she would have found some use by having the 
cover. Miss H has mentioned she would have had equity in a house, but I am not 
persuaded this would have been readily available to her in a time of need. So, I dont 
think this would have made the policy unsuitable for her.
Miss H was also not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits 
such as, for example, those that affect self-employed people or policy holders with pre-
existing medical conditions. It is unlikely Miss H needed better advice or information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations and if she had received clear information on 
these terms, I dont think it would have put her off. So, I am persuaded the policy was 
suitable for Miss H.
 
I am not sure if Santander gave Miss H clear information about the costs of the policy, 
but even if it did, I dont think Miss H would have done anything differently for the same 
reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided 
about this sale, but based on what I have, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman