DRN-2931490
The complaint
Mr P complains about Quickly Finance Limited (QFL) and the settlement fee theyre chasing 
him for following a successful claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).
What happened
On 11 June 2019, Mr P completed an online application instructing QFL to complete a free 
PPI check on his behalf. As part of this application, Mr P needed to add an electronic 
signature to the letters of authority (LOA) QFL needed to contact the lenders on his behalf.
Following this application, QFL submitted Data Subject Access Requests to several lenders. 
This complaint refers to one of these lenders, who Ill refer to as lender S. Some time after 
QFL conduct their free PPI check, lender S confirmed Mr P had PPI present on his account. 
So, QFL contacted Mr P to make him aware of this. And they asked that Mr P complete an 
PPI questionnaire to support his PPI claim.
But Mr P didnt respond to these requests as he didnt want QFL to continue with the claim. 
As QFL didnt hear from Mr P, they submitted his claim to lender S on 28 August, the final 
day before the PPI deadline.
On 30 January 2020, lender S wrote to both Mr P and QFL explaining they were still 
investigating his PPI claim. And on 25 November, they sent their final decision letter to both 
Mr P and QFL, upholding Mr Ps claim and offering him a PPI refund. On 4 January 2021, 
QFL sent Mr P and invoice for their settlement fee. But Mr P was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr P was unhappy that QFL were asking him for a settlement fee following his successful 
PPI refund. He said hed only instructed QFL to complete a free PPI check and he didnt 
authorise them to complete a full claim. He said he purposely didnt respond to their requests 
for further information to prevent this. So, he didnt think QFL had acted fairly and wanted the 
outstanding settlement fee to be waived.
QFL didnt agree. They thought Mr P had agreed to their terms and conditions when he 
signed the LOA and completed his online application. And they thought these terms made it 
clear theyd continue to make a full claim if PPI was identified, unless Mr P cancelled the 
agreement with 14 days. And, they didnt think Mr P did. They recognised Mr P didnt provide 
a complete PPI questionnaire, but they didnt think this meant they had no authority to 
continue with the claim. They were also satisfied it was Mr P who signed the LOA, providing 
IP address details and explaining the signature was completed electronically so unlikely to 
match his wet signature completed. So, they thought their fee remained payable. Mr P 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Mr P had agreed 
to QFLs terms and conditions when completing his online application. And she thought 
these terms made it reasonably clear QFL would continue to make a full claim if PPI was 
found unless he cancelled the agreement. And she didnt think Mr P did. She recognised he 
thought not responding to QFLs requests would prevent QFL taking any further action but 
she didnt think this was the case. And she was satisfied the work QFL completed led to the 
PPI refund Mr P received, as lender S provided the offer letter to both QFL and Mr P. So, 
she thought QFL had acted fairly when invoicing Mr P for their settlement fee, in line with 
terms and conditions of the agreement.
Mr P didnt agree. He maintained his view that hed only asked QFL to complete a free PPI 
check. So, he maintained her view that the settlement fee they were charging was unfair and 
he thought it should be waived. As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr P. Ive no doubt Mr P 
assumed that, by not responding to QFLs request for further information, he was preventing 
them from submitting any full claims on his behalf. So, when he received an invoice from 
QFL for their fee, I can understand why hed be concerned and upset. Due to the length of 
time it took lender S to make a decision, it had been some time since QFL had spoken to Mr 
P so I can appreciate why receiving that invoice would come as a shock. But for me to say 
the fee should be waived, Id need to see one of two things. Either, Id need to be satisfied 
that QFL didnt hold the necessary authority to submit the claim. Or, if I think they did, Id 
need to be satisfied they completed no work of value on the successful claim. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about the authority QFL held on the claim. Im aware Mr P has disputed the 
signature on the LOA QFL used to submit the claim with lender S. But, this was an electronic 
signature that wouldve been inputted when Mr P made the online application. And Mr P 
doesnt dispute he made this application as hes confirmed he did so for a free PPI check 
only. So, on the balance of probability, Im satisfied this was the signature Mr P included.
And Ive seen the LOA makes it reasonably clear that by signing it, Mr P was agreeing to the 
terms and conditions of the agreement. So, Id expect Mr P to ensure hed read and 
understood this before signing the LOA and continuing with the online application.
These terms and conditions explain the following:
Claims Services means:-
i) conducting a PPI Check to ascertain if You have/had PPI with each Company You tell Us
You have dealt with; and/or
ii) Preparing and Submitting Your Claim(s) to/with the Company, in the event that FTR
locate PPI
I think this makes it reasonably clear that QFL would look to submit a claim to lender S if PPI 
was identified. And by signing the LOA, I think Mr P agreed to this. So, I dont think I can say 
QFL have done anything wrong when they submitted the claim on Mr Ps behalf as I think 
they had the authority to do so.But I have thought about Mr Ps comments relating to QFLs request for further information 
and that by not retuning them, he was disengaging from QFLs service. And I do appreciate 
why Mr P would think this. Ive seen the requests QFL sent to Mr P, and they do explain they 
may be unable to progress a claim without that information. But crucially, they explain they 
may be unable to progress a claim, not that they definitely couldnt. In this situation, they 
were asking for a completed PPI questionnaire which would support Mr Ps application. This 
is standard industry practice. But claims are able to be submitted without them.
Im aware our investigator said Mr P did sign a questionnaire. And I think he did, but for a 
separate claim and not the one Ive looked into. So, I dont think a questionnaire was 
completed for the claim with lender S and QFL have stated the same. But I dont think this 
means QFL shouldnt have submitted the claim. And I dont think it means the agreement 
was ended at this point.
The terms and conditions explain that Mr P was able to cancel the agreement with the 14-
day cooling off period, free of charge. I cant see that he did so. And the terms explain that 
Mr P could cancel after this time, in writing or verbally, but that a fee will be due if PPI had 
been identified by that point. Again, Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr P did so. Without 
evidence of this, I cant see that the agreement was cancelled by Mr P and so, I think it was 
still in place when Mr P received a PPI refund from lender S. So, I think QFL were fair to 
charge a settlement fee in line with agreement.
Ive then thought about the work QFL completed, to ensure it was of value to the claim. Ive 
seen QFL submitted Mr Ps claim on the final day of the PPI deadline, after no questionnaire 
was provided. If a claim was submitted after this time, its likely lender S wouldve refused to 
investigate it further as the claim wouldve fallen outside of the deadline. Ive seen no 
evidence to show Mr P was in contact with lender S directly at this time so, without the claim 
being submitted by QFL, I dont think its likely Mr S wouldve received a PPI refund.
And Ive seen lender S final decision letter, which they sent to QFL. This satisfies me lender 
S saw QFL as Mr Ps representative and this wouldve been because the successful claim 
was submitted by QFL. So, I think the work QFL complete led to the successful refund and 
because of this, I think theyve acted fairly and reasonably when invoicing Mr P for their fee. 
So, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping for. And I do recognise it leaves Mr P 
with a fee to pay, a considerable amount of time after it was first invoiced for. But as Ive 
explained, Im only able to say the fee should be waived if QFL have done something wrong. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Quickly Finance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman