DRN-3068632
The complaint
Mr M complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse), trading as Land Rover Financial 
Services withdrew their offer to allow him to reject a car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I was very sorry to hear that after Mr M had come to an arrangement with Black Horse to 
allow him to reject a faulty vehicle, it was the subject of an arson attack.
When Black Horse agreed to allow Mr M to reject the car it was on the basis that they would 
get the car back and would be able to sell it on to recoup any losses. As the car has been 
written off it is of no value to Black Horse and it wouldnt be fair to expect them to provide the 
same redress.
Mr M was insured, and the insurer has therefore made a payment towards the balance on 
the account that is equivalent to what they believe is the market value of the car. Im afraid 
the balance isnt something Id fairly expect Black Horse to waive. It was always Mr Ms 
responsibility to fund that gap in such circumstances.
But the £450 Black Horse agreed to pay Mr M in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
and loss of enjoyment hed experienced, wasnt linked to the value of the car and should still 
be paid. Im therefore pleased to see Black Horse havent retracted that £450 offer and I 
believe its still available to Mr M in what I think is a fair settlement of this issue.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman