DRN-2478198
The complaint
Mr K complains Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Scottish Widows Bank (SWB)) linked his Offset 
Saver Account (OSA) to the wrong mortgage account. 
What happened
Mr K has a mortgage with SWB. He opened an OSA to run alongside his mortgage. This 
means that any savings in there would be offset against interest being charged on his 
mortgage. He has three separate mortgage accounts, each with a different balance and rate 
of interest.
Mr K recently noticed that the OSA was being offset against a different account to the one 
hed requested. He complained to SWB about this. He said hed asked for it to be offset 
against the mortgage account with the highest rate of interest and because of this mistake 
hed paid more interest. He wanted SWB to refund the additional interest hed been charged.
SWB agreed it hadnt linked the OSA to the correct mortgage account. However, it said Mr K 
shouldve been aware of this from his mortgage statements. So, it wasnt willing to refund 
any interest. It said it would switch the OSA to the correct mortgage account and that Mr K 
would be called back within a few days. But it didnt call Mr K back. Mr K complained again. 
SWB offered £100 compensation for the mistake it had made in not calling Mr K back. And it 
linked the OSA to the correct account. But it still refused to refund any interest. Mr K referred 
the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things. He explained that the complaint about the OSA 
not being linked to the correct mortgage account hadnt been referred to us in time. So, it 
wasnt one we could consider. He did agree we could consider the point that SWB didnt call 
Mr K back when it said it would, but he felt £100 was fair compensation in this regard.
Mr K didnt agree. He said hed asked for the OSA to be linked to a specific account and had 
assumed this had been done correctly. He didnt think the mortgage statement was clear 
enough in showing which mortgage account the OSA was linked to. And that he was very 
busy with work and had only recently become aware of the error. He asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules under which we operate, known as the DISP rules and found within the FCA 
handbook, set out the time limits of when a complaint needs to be referred to us. The 
relevant rule in this complaint is DISP 2.8 which says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:
(2) More than:
(a) Six years after the event complained of: or (if later)
(b) Three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
The mistake being complained about occurred in 2012. Mr K didnt refer his complaint to us 
until 2020. This is clearly more than six years ago. So, I need to consider whether Mr K 
ought to have reasonably known that he had cause for complaint more than three years ago.
Ive been provided with a copy of the mortgage statement Mr K was provided with in 2013  
after he asked for the OSA to be linked to a particular mortgage account. This statement 
shows all three mortgage accounts separately, and then shows the OSA. Above the OSA 
mortgage account number is the mortgage account that the OSA is linked to. I accept this 
may not make it completely clear that this is the account which the OSA is linked to. 
However, it also shows the balance of the mortgage account that the OSA is offset against. 
Given that Mr Ks three mortgage accounts had significantly different balances, I think this, 
and my previous point make it sufficiently clear which account the OSA is linked to.
I accept Mr K may not have actually been aware of the mistake, but the rules dont require 
him to be aware. Instead the complaint must be referred to us within three years of when 
someone ought reasonably to have been aware a mistake had been made. And I think, for 
the reasons set out above, the mortgage statements from 2013 onwards ought to have 
reasonably made Mr K aware there had been an error. Because of this, I dont think that Mr 
K referred the complaint point to us in time, so I cant consider it.
The rules do say we can set aside the time limits if there are exceptional circumstances 
which prevented Mr K from referring the complaint to us sooner. But the bar for exceptional 
circumstances is a high one. I accept Mr K is busy with his job. But this isnt enough for me 
to say he couldnt refer the complaint to us sooner.
I appreciate Mr K will be very disappointed by this. And I want to make it clear that Im not 
expressing any opinion on SWBs mistake or whether what it has done to put things right is 
correct. Simply that this is a complaint point I cant consider.
Moving on to the fact that SWB said it would call Mr K back but didnt. I appreciate this 
wouldve been frustrating for him. But it has since spoken with him and linked the OSA to the 
correct mortgage account within a few days of the original call. I think the £100 
compensation SWB has offered is fair for this particular mistake. So Im not going to ask it to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr K £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman