DRN-3377588
The complaint
Mr M is complaining HiFX Europe Limited (referred to as Xe) wont refund a transaction he 
didnt authorise. 
What happened
Mr M said he was called by someone who claimed to be from BT Broadband Security 
on 21 September 2021. He recalled they told him there were several international 
users using his broadband account and they would need to be removed for security 
reasons.
Mr M remembered that he was sent a link to AnyDesk to resolve the security 
problem. He was told the screen would go blank and come back, which he noted 
happened on several occasions.
That day, a transfer for €10,381.84 was made from his Xe account  paid for by 
transferring £8,965.32 from Mr Ms account with another bank.  
Mr Ms other bank agreed to refund 50% of the money transferred. Xe disagreed that 
its liable for the other half. It said its terms and conditions dont suggest that Mr M 
gets his money back from unauthorised scams, where the payment was correctly 
authenticated. And that he failed to keep his security details safe. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr M isnt liable for 
payments he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
Ive firstly considered whether Mr M authorised the payment. Xe highlighted 
regulation 75(1) of the PSRs, which broadly says that where Mr M has denied 
authorising a payment, its for Xe to show it was correctly authenticated. Xe 
submitted that because its done that, Mr M cant claim it wasnt authorised.  
But that contradicts regulation 75(3) of the PSRs. This broadly says that a payments 
correct authentication isnt enough to show that a payment was authorised.  
Instead, to determine authorisation, I must consider regulation 67 of the PSRs. This 
says that a payment is to be regarded as authorised if Mr M consented to it  and 
that consent must have been given in the form, and in accordance with the 
procedure, agreed between Xe and Mr M.
To understand what the form and procedure was, Ive reviewed the account terms 
and conditions Xe has provided our service. Under regulation 14.6 Consent to carry 
out a payment, it says 
You can place Requests for Payments in writing or via telephone or via any 
other method we make available to you. Your Request: (a) should include all 
the details we require (including relating to the Beneficiary Account) to 
perform a Payment; and (b) will be treated by us as your consent to us to go 
ahead with and our authorisation to execute that Payment. 
You is defined you, our customer. So, practically speaking, to consent to a 
payment Mr M needed to make a request with all the details asked for. 
Here, its not been disputed that a fraudster was able to access Mr Ms account and 
requested the transfer  using the remote access software they convinced him to 
download. So I dont think hes given his consent, as per the agreed form and 
procedure, to authorise this transaction.
Im also not persuaded that Mr M gave the fraudster permission to consent to the 
transaction on his behalf. Im satisfied he thought he was cooperating to secure his 
broadband. And, given the remote access and what hes consistently said about his 
screen going blank, that he wouldnt have been aware of the transaction. So I dont 
think he couldve given someone else permission to make it.  
It follows that Im not persuaded he went through the form and procedure to consent 
to the payment or gave someone else permission to consent to the payment on his 
behalf. It was, therefore, unauthorised.
This means Ive gone on to consider whether Mr M failed with intent or gross 
negligence to comply with his terms and conditions or keep his personalised security 
details safe. 
I dont think, and its not been argued, that Mr M failed with intent. It seemed he 
genuinely believed what he was doing was to resolve his internets security issues.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr M failed with gross negligence. Xe suggested 
that because he failed to keep his personalised security details safe (in line with 
regulation 72 of the PSRs), that amounts to gross negligence. 
But regulation 77(3) of the PSRs is clear that Mr M is liable for unauthorised 
transactions if he failed with gross negligence to keep his details safe. So its not 
enough that he failed. Were instead looking at whether he failed to such an extent 
that he was significantly careless; whether it meant he acted so far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done; or seriously disregarded an obvious risk.
Here, the fraudster posed as someone from BT, Mr Ms genuine provider  and Mr M 
said they knew his name, phone number and details of his BT account. So I can see 
why he was persuaded that the person calling was from BT. 
Mr M explained that he was told people were accessing his broadband, which 
needed to be stopped for security reasons. To sort that, he was asked to download 
AnyDesk, a remote access software. Given his trust in who he was speaking with, and that AnyDesk is legitimately used to help people with IT problems, I can 
understand why he followed these instructions. I think lots of people wouldve done. 
For the fraudster to transfer money, they wouldve have needed to log on to his 
online account with Xe. This involved two-factor authentication  where a codes sent 
to Mr Ms mobile to be entered on the screen. Xe hasnt provided evidence to show 
that a further code wouldve been needed to complete the transaction. 
Its not exactly clear how they logged on. I can see from Mr Ms browser history that 
the fraudster visited validator.w3.org. We know scammers commonly use this 
(legitimate) website to convince their victims that the websites they commonly use, 
like their online banking, arent safe and need securing. I think its likely that 
something similar happened here  and thats how they convinced Mr M to log on to 
his online account, so they could secure it. 
In doing so, I dont think Mr M was significantly careless. Thats bearing in mind that 
Mr M thought he was dealing with a trusted professional. And that most people arent 
experts in cyber security  to understand the genuine signs theyre at risk and what 
steps are needed to keep their internet secure. 
In saying this, Ive considered Mr Ms testimony that he didnt share the codes he 
was sent. But its not clear that he wouldve needed to. It seems they were only used 
to log on, so he wouldve only entered them on the screen. And given that Mr M 
didnt realise the extent of their control with remote access, I can see why this 
wouldnt have alarmed him at the time. 
And even if Im wrong and codes were shared, Im still not convinced this means Mr 
M failed with gross negligence. From our experience dealing with similar scams, we 
know how fraudsters cleverly coach their victims into revealing information, under the 
guise of securing the website. And Ive noted that the codes here arent clear what 
theyre for, nor is there a warning not to share them. 
So, in all, I dont think Mr Ms actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
wouldve done that it amounts to gross negligence. I conclude Mr M isnt liable for the 
transaction under the PSRs. 
Xe said its terms and conditions dont suggest its liable to refund victims of fraud and 
where there was no compromise of its system. But its terms do set out that itll refund 
customers for unauthorised transactions in line with the PSRs, which is what Ive 
considered here. I also remind Xe that it cant contract out of its obligations under the 
PSRs, as per regulation 137. 
Putting things right
Given that Mr Ms other bank has already refunded 50% of the amount taken, Xe 
should refund the remaining 50% (£4,482.66). 
It should pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the 
unauthorised transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible). 
In line with regulation 76 of the PSRs, Xe shouldve refunded this much sooner. 
Thats caused Mr M to worry over his finances, so I also award £75 to reflect distress. My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order HiFX Europe 
Limited to settle this complaint as per what Ive said under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman