DRN-3837620
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) didnt advise him that applying a breathing 
space to his account would affect his credit file. He would like his credit file amended and 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate the difficult personal circumstances Mr C had in 2022. But I cant agree 
that HSBC didnt make him aware of the excess on his account. It has evidenced it  
wrote to him several times from March to May 2022. It also called him in April 2022 to 
discuss the account and again in May 2022 as Mr C didnt, as agreed, return the April 
phone call as it hadnt been convenient for him to talk at that time. I appreciate Mr C 
has told us he moved out of his house. But I understand he had weekly access to his 
mail and online access to his account. So, I do believe the information was provided 
for Mr C to be aware of the issue with his account.
I also cant agree that HSBC didnt make Mr C aware that applying a breathing space 
to his account would impact on his credit file. From what I have seen that was made 
clear to him in a phone call in May 2022 and in a letter sent the same month.
I cant see any evidence that HSBC advised Mr C of alternatives to a breathing space 
but from the phone call in May 2022 there was no indication Mr C was able to pay off 
his arrears, so a breathing space seems a sensible option to me. Mr C has since told 
us that he had funds in other accounts he could have used to pay off the excess on 
his account. But if that were the case I dont know why he didnt offer that at the time. 
Consumers do have some responsibility to manage their accounts and if other funds 
were readily available that would seem a potential solution to the issue he had. I 
dont think that HSBC were at fault in not looking at alternatives. The impact on Mr 
Cs credit file was made clear to him and in the phone call he seemed to understand 
and accept that. And the way in which he described his financial situation didnt seem 
to allude to other funds being readily available.
I do appreciate the impact on Mr Cs credit file, but I think he entered a breathing 
space arrangement knowing this. Its important that credit files accurately reflect 
account history, so I dont feel I have any grounds to ask HSBC to alter Mr Cs credit 
file. 
I also dont feel I have any grounds to ask HSBC to compensate Mr C. I think HSBC 
treated Mr C fairly. It advised him of issues on his account , contacted him to discuss 
this and agreed a solution that seemed to suit Mr Cs circumstances based on what 
Mr C told with HSBC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman