DRN-3798757
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent irresponsibly when it approved two credit 
cards.
What happened
Mrs I applied for a credit card with Capital One in April 2021. Capital One approved the 
application and gave Mrs I a credit card with a credit limit of £200.
Mrs I applied for a second credit card in January 2022. Capital One approved the application 
and gave Mrs I a card with a credit limit of £500.
Mrs I complained that Capital One had lent irresponsibly. Capital One didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs I brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at both credit cards but 
didnt think the Capital One had lent irresponsibly. 
Mrs I accepted that the first credit card hadnt been approved irresponsibly. But she said she 
did think she shouldve been given the second card because she had significant other credit 
commitments at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs I has accepted that the first credit card wasnt approved irresponsibly. So Ive limited my 
decision to the second credit card.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that Capital One had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mrs I could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The nature 
of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will depend on various factors, including 
the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost of the 
credit and the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
Capital One says it took into account the information it already held about Mrs I. It says it 
looked at how her existing credit card account had been managed and carried out a credit 
search.
Ive looked at the information Capital One gathered from these checks. Mrs I had an annual 
income of around £30,000. The credit search showed that Mrs I had two other credit card 
accounts, three mail order accounts, an unsecured loan and a hire purchase agreement. 
The credit search found no arrears or missed payments and no recent defaults.
The credit search showed that Mrs I was paying around £421 per month towards the hire 
purchase agreement, £42 per month towards the unsecured loan, £9 towards one of the mail 
order accounts and £28 towards one of the other mail order accounts.
The checks showed that Mrs I had around £1579 of existing debt across the mail order 
accounts and the other credit cards.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Capital One were reasonable and 
proportionate. I dont think there was anything in the information obtained which wouldve 
given Capital One cause for concern or which warranted further checks.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
Ive reviewed the information obtained by Capital One. Theres nothing to suggest that the 
credit card wouldve been affordable for Mrs I. There was no adverse information on Mrs Ls 
credit file which wouldve given cause to think that she was in financial difficulties. Mrs L did 
have some other credit commitments, but having taken account of the repayments that Mrs 
L was making, she still had sufficient disposable income to cover the credit card, even if 
shed used all of the available credit on it. Theres nothing in the information Ive seen to 
indicate that the credit card was unaffordable for Mrs I.
Ive taken into account what Mrs I has said about her first credit card with Capital One being 
used to its limit. The statements for the account show that Mrs I was using the card regularly 
and was paying off the balance in full each month. There were no missed or late payments. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mrs I was managing this account well.
Mrs I has also made the point that she had other debt. The fact that a consumer has other 
debt doesnt automatically mean that any further lending is irresponsible. As Ive explained, 
the lender has to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that the lending is 
affordable. In this case, I can see that Capital One was aware of Mrs Is overall debt position, 
but the checks it carried out showed that she was managing the debt and that the credit card 
was affordable.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that the checks carried out by Capital One were reasonable and 
proportionate and that the decision to lend was fair.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman