DRN-2252955
The complaint
Ms D complains that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) prevented her from 
completing a payment of £10,000 by asking her a security question she could not know the 
answer to.
What happened
On 31 December 2019, Ms D called NatWest to ask it to process a payment of £10,000. 
Shed been unable to do so herself as her local branch was closed and the limit on her app 
was £750.
When Ms D called NatWest, it took her through various security questions, including some 
enhanced security. Ms D was asked to confirm her branch, but she said she did not know it 
as she had opened the account online.
Ms D was then asked to confirm the month and year her account was opened, but she said 
she didnt know the month. NatWest declined to complete the payment because Ms D had 
failed security.
Ms D complained. She said it was unfair to ask her what her branch was as she had opened 
her account online. NatWest maintained its position and declined to complete the transfer. It 
sent Ms D a final response letter on 3 January 2020. NatWest explained that additional 
security questions are selected by a computer at random when a new payee is set up. And 
that those questions have to be answered in order to pass security. It said its security 
protocols were in place to protect both its customers and the bank from fraud. So, it rejected 
her complaint.
Ms D brought her complaint to our Service. Our investigator reviewed her complaint and 
decided NatWest had not made an error, so she didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
Ms D remained unhappy so she asked for an ombudsman to review matters afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed Ms Ds complaint, I have 
decided not to uphold it for the following reasons.
Ms D has said its unfair of NatWest to ask her a security question to which she cannot know 
the answer. And while it might be the case that NatWest confirmed Ms Ds branch to her 
when it opened the account, I accept that she was unlikely to have known the answer off the 
top of her head.
However, that doesnt mean NatWest isnt entitled to ask the question. NatWest has 
explained to Ms D that its security protocol is in place to protect the bank and Ms D from 
fraud. And I cant reasonably criticise it for taking what I consider to be reasonable measures 
to verify the identity of its customer, when processing a £10,000 payment to a new payee. 
Its security protocol is a commercial decision for the bank and Im not satisfied it would be 
appropriate for me to interfere with its decision to ask Ms D the questions it did.
Further, its not true to say Ms D was only asked a question she could not answer. Ms D was 
also asked an alternative security question: the month and year the account was opened. Ms 
D correctly stated the year, but said she did not know the month. She didnt attempt to recall 
the month, despite the account having been opened in the recent past. She declined to 
provide an answer, and when she was told she had failed security, she simply sought to 
complain: she made no attempt to recall the date her account was opened, or locate her 
personal records that would confirm the same.
Given that Ms D had failed to answer two security questions, I cant reasonably say NatWest 
treated Ms D unfairly by declining to process the payment. NatWest also gave Ms D 
alternative means by which she could make the payment: either by using the NatWest 
website (for which she would need to order a card reader) or by going into branch.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think NatWest treated Ms D unfairly, so I wont 
be asking it to do anything to put things right for Ms D.
Ms D also complains that she had to spend an hour and 20 minutes on the phone to 
NatWest, bringing her complaint. She says she had a house full of guests for new years 
eve. But I cant agree NatWest did anything wrong here either. Ms D was told that raising a 
complaint would not change the outcome of the payment. So, I see no reason why Ms D 
could not have called back at a more convenient time.
Ms D chose to make the complaint, and Im satisfied NatWest dealt with it fairly. So, I wont 
be asking it to compensate Ms D for any distress and inconvenience she experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman