DRN-2294682
The complaint
Miss V complains that Santander UK Plc cant tell her what was in a returned item of mail 
from it, and that thered been a returned item another time. She wants compensation and a 
new card issued, if it was a card that was returned. 
What happened
In March 2020 Miss V was notified by text message from Santander that it had received a 
returned item of mail that it had sent to her. The text also said Santander had placed a block 
on her account.
Miss V contacted Santander to have the block lifted, and asked Santander to tell her what 
was returned and how it was returned. Santander told her it didnt have that information, so 
she complained. She wanted the information shed sought. And if it was a card for an 
account that had been returned, she wanted another one issued. She also wanted a 
monetary apology because being notified of a returned item had happened twice. Santander 
said it wasnt able to tell her what was returned. It suggested that if she experienced similar 
issues with returned mail, she should liaise with the mail service, and if she wanted a new 
debit card, she should contact Santander. 
Miss V brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Shed seen evidence that Santander had tried 
to identify the item and wasnt able to do so. And she said that the last card issued on any of 
Miss Vs accounts was in September 2019. So our investigator was satisfied that the 
returned item wasnt a card. Shed seen evidence that Santander held Miss Vs correct 
address, so she thought it was reasonable to say that the issue was caused by the delivery 
process. She acknowledged Miss V had said a similar issue happened a year ago, but that 
Miss V had confirmed that shed received other post from Santander correctly, so she didnt 
think it was a recurring issue with Santander. It wouldnt be fair to hold Santander 
responsible for errors with the delivery service. 
Miss V didnt agree with our investigators view. She still thought it was a card that had been 
returned, and Santander should be able to say when cards were issued. Assuming it was a 
card, she still wanted a new card issued, and compensation for their lack of record keeping.
Our investigator confirmed to Miss V that Santander did know when cards were issued  the 
last card issued was from Miss Vs current account and no cards had been issued since 
then. But Miss V said she had more than one account with cards. Her complaint was about 
record keeping  Santander must know the dates post was sent. And if it was a card, she 
still wanted a new one. Our investigator responded again, confirming when cards were last 
sent on Miss Vs accounts that had card, and telling her to contact Santander if she wanted a 
new card. No response from Miss V was received, so the complaint came to me for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold the complaint, although I appreciate this will come 
as a disappointment to Miss V. Ill explain why. 
The essence of Miss Vs complaint is that Santander should be able to tell her what was 
returned to it. And Miss V feels sure it was a card. She wants compensation for Santanders 
poor record keeping, and because it has happened more than once.
Ive looked at the information provided by Santander carefully. Im satisfied that it is very 
unlikely that it was a card on any of Miss Vs accounts that was the item returned in March 
2019. Santander has shown us evidence as to when cards were sent on the accounts that 
have cards attached, and none was sent within six months of the item being returned. So in 
my view the returned item wasnt a card. 
Im also satisfied that Santander checked its records to see if it could identify what the 
returned item was, and how it was returned. It didnt have the information Miss V wanted. 
Miss V wants me to tell Santander that it must pay her compensation for what she says is 
poor record keeping. Im afraid I dont agree. Its not my role to tell Santander what 
processes it must have in place, my role is to resolve individual disputes. 
Our service only tells businesses to pay compensation if a complainant has suffered a 
financial loss, or experienced material distress or inconvenience where it would be fair and 
reasonable of us to do so. It isnt our role to punish businesses. In this case I dont think 
Santander has done anything wrong such that a payment of compensation is justified. 
Theres nothing to suggest that the two instances in which mail items sent to Miss V were 
returned to it were caused by Santander. And it took appropriate steps to safeguard Miss Vs 
banking when the item was returned to it. I appreciate that Miss V is frustrated that 
Santander couldnt provide the information she wanted, but Im not going to tell it to do 
anything further. If Miss V still wants a new card on her account, she can contact Santander. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman