DRN-3418311
The complaint
Ms A and Mr C complain that Post Office Management Services Limited (Post Office) didnt 
offer them optional, additional cover when they bought their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms A and Mr C bought a Prime annual travel insurance policy on 2 March 2020. The policy
was purchased online with Post Office, via a price comparison website search.
Unfortunately, Ms A and Mr C were subsequently stranded abroad due to the circumstances
surrounding Covid-19. When Ms A and Mr C tried to make a claim with the underwriter of the
policy for their extra costs, they were told they didnt have Extended travel disruption cover,
which may have covered their situation.
Ms A and Mr C complained to Post Office and said they werent given the option to buy the
additional cover when they bought the policy and, therefore, the policy had been mis-sold to
them. Post Office told Ms A and Mr C that there was no option to buy the additional cover on
its website at the time, and Ms A and Mr C had ticked a box to confirm they understood the
cover they were buying and that the cover met their needs.
As Ms A and Mr C remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to the attention of our
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt uphold the
complaint. Ms A and Mr C didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was 
referred to me.
I made my provisional decision about Ms A and Mr Cs complaint in March 2022. In it, I said:
No insurance policy covers every eventuality. An insurer is entitled to decide what level of 
risk it is prepared to accept in return for the payment of a premium. Neither an insurer nor a
broker (seller) is obliged to offer customers any particular level of cover. It was up to Ms A
and Mr C to make sure they had a level of cover in place which met their needs.
Post Office told us it wasnt offering Extended travel disruption cover for sale at the time via
the price comparison website which Ms A and Mr C used and that, if Ms A and Mr C had
said they wanted such cover on the price comparison website, they wouldnt have been
offered this policy.
Post Office said it also wasnt offering Extended travel disruption cover for sale at the time
via its own website which the price comparison website directed Ms A and Mr C to. At the
time, Extended travel disruption cover was only available for customers to buy via Post
Offices online self-service portal for policyholders.
Post Office wasnt selling the cover which Ms A and Mr C are complaining about through the
relevant sales channels when Ms A and Mr C bought their policy. This was a commercial
decision which Post Office was entitled to make. Post Office therefore didnt offer Ms A and
Mr C the additional cover during the sales process. And I dont think it needed to 
regardless of how the policy was described. If Ms A and Mr C had wanted to purchase such
additional cover, it was open to them to have searched for this through the price comparison
website, where policies offered by other insurers who were providing this cover would have
been presented to them.
I wouldnt generally expect the missed departure section of a travel insurance policy to
cover the situation which Ms A and Mr C found themselves in. I dont think theres anything
Post Office should have done differently when selling this policy to Ms A and Mr C.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms A and Mr C. Ive taken into account everything theyve said, and I
understand that Covid-19 hadnt yet been declared a pandemic when they bought their
policy. But I dont think Post Office acted unfairly or unreasonably by failing to offer additional
cover to Ms A and Mr C, so I dont intend to direct Post Office to do anything further.
Post Office replied to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Ms A 
and Mr C didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information nor additional submissions, I see no 
reason to change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms A and Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman