DRN-2007420
 
The complaint
Miss S complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly settled a claim against her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S was involved in a car accident. She says a third party reversed in to her car.
esure decided to settle the claim and recorded it as a fault claim against Miss Ss policy. 
Miss S complained as she didnt believe she was at fault  she says the third party admitted 
liability just after the accident took place. esure explained that it didnt think it could defend 
the claim if it went to court and that it acted in line with the policy terms. The insurer also 
acknowledged that it didnt escalate Miss Ss complaint in a timely manner and paid her £50 
compensation because of this.
Miss S remained unhappy as esures decision to settle the claim affected the personal injury 
claim shed started against the third party. Miss S also says one of esures call handlers 
provided a poor level of service to her over the phone.
After this service was asked to step in, an investigator concluded that esure hadnt acted 
unfairly. The investigator felt the insurer had fairly considered all the evidence and agreed it 
had acted in line with the policy terms. The investigator added that shed listened to the 
telephone call Miss S was unhappy about, but didnt think the call handler had done 
something wrong.
Miss S didnt agree  she felt the third party hadnt been honest about the circumstances of 
the car accident. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share the investigators opinion on this complaint and Ill explain why.
My role isnt to determine liability  thats something only a court can consider. I can only 
look at whether esure has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when making its own decision  I think it did.
The terms of Miss Ss policy say esure can defend or settle a claim on her behalf. This 
essentially allows esure to settle the claim in a way it chooses and it doesnt need 
Miss Ss agreement to do so. This is a common term in motor insurance policies.
Insurers are entitled to consider whether it is reasonable to challenge a claim and the likely 
chances of defending a claim in court. But insurers are expected to reasonably investigate a 
claim and consider the available evidence before making a decision.
I think esure carried out a reasonable investigation of the claim. esure says there were no 
independent witnesses or evidence to support Miss Ss account of the accident. So it 
appointed a third party (who Ill refer to as B) to carry out an investigation. Bs report seems 
to have led to concerns about the consistency of Miss Ss testimony as well as questions 
about the circumstances of the accident. esure also took into account pictures B had taken 
of the location the accident took place.
esure didnt think it could successfully defend this claim in court  which it is entitled to 
consider  because it wouldve been difficult to argue that the third party caused the accident 
in the manner Miss S described. So I think it acted reasonably when it decided to settle the 
claim.
Miss S told esure during a call that her children could be put forward as witnesses. But by 
this point, esure had already decided to settle the claim. Also, esure said Miss Ss children 
couldnt be put forward because of their age and because they wouldnt be classed 
independent witnesses. 
I can see from esures internal notes that Miss S was asked to provide witness details on 
more than one occasion. It seems to me that esure gave Miss the S the opportunity to put 
forward a witness. In the absence of this and any other evidence to support Miss Ss version 
of events, I think it was reasonable for esure to go ahead and settle the claim. 
Miss S says she received poor customer service during a call with esure. Ive listened to the 
call, during which Miss S understandably gets quite upset. The call handler did at times 
sound frustrated  but I dont think Miss S was treated in a way that leads me to conclude 
she received a poor level of service. So I wont be asking esure to do anything else in 
relation to this call.  
Miss S is also unhappy that her personal injury claim against the third party was ended 
because esure decided to settle the accident claim as a fault claim against Miss Ss policy. 
For the same reasons as above, I think esure acted fairly in carrying out its investigation of 
the claim and when it decided the settle the claim. The ending of the personal injury claim 
wasnt because of something esure did wrong  so I wont be asking esure to do something 
differently because of this. 
Overall, I think esure took appropriate steps to carry out a reasonable investigation of the 
claim. It also acted in line with the policy terms when it decided to settle the claim  which I 
think was reasonable. 
I wont be asking esure to do anything differently in relation to Miss Ss complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2020. 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman