DRN-4208262
The complaint
Mr C complains that esure Insurance Limited kept a claim on his motor insurance policy 
open and this led to an increase in his premium at renewal. He wants compensation for this 
and for his trouble and upset. Mr C is represented in this matter by Mrs H. 
What happened
Mr C reported an accident with another driver to esure. Liability was disputed by the other 
drivers insurer and so esure kept the claim open and recorded it as a fault. This meant that 
Mr Cs premium increased at renewal, and he was unhappy with this. Mrs H said esure had 
told her that the costs hadnt been requested from the other insurer in a timely manner. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure 
had reasonably kept the claim open until liability was agreed and it recovered all its outlay. 
He thought it had reasonably progressed the claim. And so he thought the renewal premium 
based on the fault claim was correct. After Mr Cs complaint came to us, as a gesture of 
goodwill esure allowed his No Claims Bonus (NCB). And the Investigator thought the new 
renewal premium was based on this. So he didnt think esure needed to do anything further.
Mr C replied that esure hadnt approached the other drivers insurer for payment until after 
he complained, six months after the accident. He thought he had been treated unfairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C felt frustrated that his premium at renewal increased by 80% 
following a non-fault accident where the other drivers employer accepted liability. 
When Mr C reported the accident to esure, it warned him that it may take between four and 
six months to resolve the claim. To do this. the other drivers insurer would need to accept 
liability and pay esure for its losses. And esure would have to receive an invoice for Mr Cs 
repairs and any other outlay to present to the other insurer. 
In the meantime, and in keeping with standard industry practice, esure recorded the open 
claim as fault and so Mr Cs premium increased at renewal. Mr C told us that esure had 
said this would reduce when it had recovered its outlay. 
Ive looked at how esure progressed the claim and whether it caused any avoidable delays. I 
think it progressed Mr Cs repairs reasonably and Mr C hasnt complained to us about this. 
But I can see that it took some time for esure to receive an invoice for the repairs to Mr Cs 
car. I think it needed this before it could present its costs to the other drivers insurer. And I 
cant reasonably hold esure responsible for this delay. 
But the other drivers insurer still disputed liability and I cant see that this has yet been 
settled. So I cant say that if esure had received the repairs invoice sooner that this would 
have changed the situation. And I cant reasonably hold esure responsible for the other 
insurers actions. But esure has told Mr C that its confident that it will recover its outlay and 
its already treated the claim as if it was non-fault, as a gesture of goodwill. So I think this 
was a fair and reasonable response to Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr Cs premium with the claim changed to non-fault did reduce, as esure had promised, but 
it didnt return to its previous amount. This is because while some insurers will only rate on 
NCB disallowed or fault claims, others will consider any claim  or even just a claim 
notification  as a risk factor. This is because insurers say that drivers who have been 
involved in incidents, regardless of fault, are more likely to be involved in future claims. 
I can understand that Mr C may find this to be illogical. But being involved in an incident 
could be linked to such things as his use of higher risk roads or junctions or driving at 
particular times. 
Its not our role to tell an insurer how to price their policies or what factors they should 
consider when calculating a risk. However we need to make sure the insurer is applying a 
fair and consistent approach to all consumers.
esures decision to rate on all claims, regardless of fault, is its commercial decision. This 
doesnt break any relevant regulations and its in keeping with standard industry practice. 
And I cant see that esure has treated Mr C differently to any of its other customers. And so, 
as this isnt something that I would normally interfere with as it is a legitimate exercise of its 
commercial judgement, I dont require esure to refund any premium to Mr C.
Mr C said that he had to pay his increased premium by monthly instalments and so now he 
had to pay interest on the premium. He wanted this refunded. I can understand this caused 
Mr C financial pressure. But I cant reasonably hold esure responsible for his financial 
circumstances. And so I dont require esure to refund this interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman