DRN-2365696
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly registered 
adverse information on his credit file following an accident.
What happened
Mr H says he was involved in a serious accident in early 2016 and was unable to work. He 
says he agreed a repayment plan with Barclaycard, but it recorded a number of missed 
payments on his credit file and later registered a default on it. Mr H says that was unfair and 
is now affecting his credit applications and would like it removed.
Barclaycard says it hasnt made a mistake and sent numerous letters to Mr H telling him that 
it would report missed, late or repayment plan details to the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs). It says it also told Mr H that during telephone calls and has a duty to report 
accurate information to the CRAs. It also says it tried to help Mr H by suspending interest 
and eventually agreeing a repayment plan but correctly defaulted the account after about six 
months of missed payments.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard had told Mr H by a number of means that the missed payments and 
payments plan details would be reported to the CRAs. And that Barclaycard didnt make a 
mistake by registering the default when there were missed payments. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard had acted positively and sympathetically but had been clear about the 
information that would be reported to the CRAs.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and maintains the adverse information should be removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Barclaycards records and the letters it sent Mr H about the credit card debt. 
Im satisfied that Barclaycard told Mr H on numerous occasions by letter and over the 
telephone that it would report details of the missed payments and repayment plan to the 
CRAs. I find that Barclaycard is under a duty to accurately report the position of its 
customers accounts to the CRAs and doesnt have a choice in the matter. So, it follows that 
I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake or acted unfairly by reporting Mr Hs account 
position to the CRAs and I dont think it matters that in around August 2016 Mr H agreed a 
repayment plan with Barclaycard.
I appreciate that Mr H also questions why a default was registered on his credit file. The 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance on defaults says they can be registered 
after 3 months of arrears but should normally by six months. I find Barclaycard followed ICO 
guidance and registered the default after some six months of arrears and I also find that it 
was obliged to do so as that was an accurate reflection of Mr Hs account. It follows that I 
dont think Barclaycard made a mistake and so cant fairly order it to remove the default. I 
make clear that I have not seen any evidence that Barclaycard hasnt accurately reported Mr 
Hs account position to the CRAs or hasnt told the CRAs that there was a repayment plan 
in place.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulty positively and 
sympathetically. I find Barclaycard did act in such a way here by suspending interest and 
allowing Mr H some time to sort matters out. I also find it fairly agreed a repayment plan with 
him. But it doesnt follow that Barclaycard ought not to have reported the accurate account 
position to the CRAs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman