DRN-3197889
The complaint
Ms Y has complained about the quality and impact of repairs carried out by UK 
Insurance Limited (UKI) under her motor insurance policy following an incident.
What happened
Ms Y took out an insurance policy with UKI in early 2021. Unfortunately, her cars catalytic 
converter was stolen in late May 2021 and the matter was reported to the police. 
Ms Y also made a claim on her insurance policy and UKI arranged for her car to be repaired 
by its approved repair garage. The garage replaced the catalytic converter with a non-
manufacturer version and the car was returned to Ms Y in June 2021. The next day, she 
took the car to a dealership garage to install a manufacturer's anti-theft security lock. She 
was told that the replacement converter was a non-genuine part, so the manufacturer's lock 
couldnt be installed. Ms Y also considered the sound level produced by the replacement 
converter was far too loud. 
Ms Y complained to UKI. It didnt uphold her complaint and informed her that it had complied 
with the policy terms and conditions. It also said that its approved repair garage did not use a 
manufacturers part due to the potential cost, however it had provided a five-year warranty 
for the work. Ms Y stated that she was informed by the dealership garage that a repair using 
a genuine part would have cost the same as that incurred by UKIs approved repairer.
Ms Y complained to this service that UKI had not made her aware of her right to use a 
garage other than its approved repairer. She also complained that use of a non-genuine part 
meant that the manufacturers dealership garage would not now service the converter in 
future. Our investigator thought that UKI had acted fairly and reasonably and in accordance 
with the terms of Ms Ys policy. She explained that this services approach is that an insurer 
should be allowed to mitigate its costs. She accepted that UKI found that using non-genuine 
parts was the most cost-effective repair, based on the cars age, and specification.
Ms Y remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and the matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to decide whether UKI has applied the terms and conditions of the motor 
insurance policy and has generally acted in a fair and reasonable manner in handling Ms Ys 
complaint. In this case, I consider that it has done so. Ill explain why.
The starting point is for me to look at the relevant terms and conditions of Ms Ys policy. The 
relevant provisions state: -
Repairs to your car
If our approved repairer carries out the repairs, you do not need an estimate, and you will 
benefit from our 5-year Guarantee. This means parts, materials and workmanship provided 
by our approved repairer are guaranteed for five yearswhere we have agreed this with 
you, reasonable and necessary repairs can be carried out at a repairer of your choice. 
However, you must give us full details of the incident and we must approve the repairers
detailed assessment of the repairs before the work begins. We may then make the
arrangements for the repairs ourselves. Where the repairs are carried out at a repairer
of your choice, those repairs will NOT be guaranteed by us even though we may pay for
them directly
Replacing parts in your car
We may decide to repair your car with parts that havent been made by your cars 
manufacturer, but that are of a similar standard. This can include recycled parts. If any part 
or accessory is not available, the most well pay for that part will be the cost shown in the 
manufacturers last UK price list (plus reasonable fitting costs).
UKI stated that it was within its rights to use a non-genuine part and that it had acted 
reasonably by providing a five-year warranty. It said that the cost of providing a new genuine 
part could potentially lead to the car being written off. It said that they do all they can to 
provide the best option for the customer. UKI said that it had also advised Ms Y that the 
approved repair garage could provide a security lock. As to the exhaust noise, UKI said its 
approved repair garage would be happy to replace this under warranty, however said it 
couldnt guarantee it would be any less noisy.
Ms Y supplied a report from her dealership garage which stated as follows; - Cant fit cat 
lock due to non-genuine exhaust, exhaust really noisy. She provided evidence that the car 
initially failed its MOT in November 2021, one of the reasons being exhaust has a major 
leak of exhaust gases back box and a major exhaust blow. She also provided photographs 
which showed that part of the exhaust was in a poor condition.
Ms Y considered that UKI had blindfolded her during the repair process in that she had 
been provided with very little information as to what it was going to do to her car. She felt 
that this was important, particularly as she considered that the catalytic converter was a 
major component of a hybrid car. Following her request for information, Ms Y says that she 
was eventually told by UKI that the total cost of the repairs was £1,400 plus VAT. She said 
that her dealership garage told her that replacement of a genuine catalytic convertor was 
£1,200 to £1,300 including VAT, so cheaper than the repairs which were carried out by UKI.
I appreciate that Ms Y considers that she was not kept informed by UKI. I have considered 
the terms and conditions of Ms Ys policy and all the evidence which has been supplied by 
both UKI and Ms Y. I consider that the relevant provisions are standard for insurers and are 
clear. It is expected that policyholders have read and are aware of the terms and conditions 
of their policy.
I consider that it would have been best practice for UKI to have repeated to Ms Y the policy 
option of arranging her own repairs at the time of her claim. It would also have been best 
practice to keep Ms Y informed during the repairs process. Having said this, I would not 
have expected it to repeat all aspects of the terms and conditions, including the specific term 
relating to the replacement of car parts. I cant say that UKI have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably therefore in this respect. Its policy terms and conditions were clear. They 
allowed UKI to use non-manufacturer parts and indeed to use recycled parts.
Im satisfied that the exhaust was noisy following the repair by UKI. I note too that Ms Ys 
dealership had refused to fit a converter lock as the replacement converter was not the manufacturer's convertor. Im also mindful that Ms Y might experience certain difficulties if 
she wishes to have the converter serviced by a dealership garage.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the following conclusions. I cant say that 
the poor condition of the relevant section of exhaust was caused by the theft, or indeed by 
work to replace the convertor. Ive considered the photographs of the portion of the exhaust 
which Ms Y describes as being near the connection to the converter. These suggest damage 
due to wear and tear or corrosion. On the balance of probabilities therefore, I consider that 
this damage was not caused by the theft. Its likely that this damage at least contributed to 
the noise. This is consistent with the failed MOT report which refers to a major leak of 
exhaust gases.
Ive taken into account UKIs offer to provide a replacement catalytic converter under its five-
year warranty, if this is what Ms Y wishes, and I consider this to be a fair and reasonable 
offer. As to the dealership garage declining to fit a converter lock, I consider that UKIs offer 
to fit a lock is a fair and reasonable solution. 
Following receipt of our investigators view, Ms Y added to her complaint that shed paid her 
dealership garage for the repair of a rear suspension spring which had snapped. She now 
suspects that the damage to the spring and exhaust was caused by her car been jacked up 
and then released back onto the ground during the theft. There is no evidence or an 
independent garage report to support this suspicion however and I dont make any further 
finding in relation to the snapped spring damage. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Ms Ys 
complaint. I appreciate that this has been a stressful time for Ms Y and that making an 
insurance claim and dealing with garages will have added to the stress of a theft. UKI has 
reasonably followed its standard terms and conditions however and has offered solutions for 
dealing with any continuing problems.
I do note that Ms Y considers that replacement with a manufacturers converter would have 
cost less than the repair carried out by UKI. I make no further formal finding in this regard. If 
UKI do provide a replacement catalytic converter as above however, I trust that it will look to 
provide a replacement new manufacturers part rather than a further non-genuine part, if the 
cost and availability is indeed comparable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Ms Ys complaint and I dont direct UK 
Insurance Limited to do any more in response to her complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman