DRN-3343043
The complaint
Miss F complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, declined her application to 
make changes to her mortgage. 
What happened
Miss F and her former partner took out a joint mortgage in late 2018. The mortgage had a 
fixed rate of interest until 2023. If it was repaid before the expiry of that interest rate deal, an 
early repayment charge (ERC) would be applied.
Miss F separated from her partner. She has told us that in 2020 she enquired about 
removing her partner from the mortgage. But Halifax said it couldnt provide a mortgage in 
Miss Fs sole name as it didnt feel this was affordable. And Miss F has said she accepted 
this.
Miss F then made another application to remove her former partner but this time included 
also adding her father to the mortgage, as a joint applicant. Halifax declined this application 
as well as it said it had failed its internal credit scoring and, after referral to underwriters, was 
considered to be outside of its lending criteria.
Miss F then looked for a replacement mortgage, in joint names with her father, via a broker. 
Miss F has said the broker was able to source mortgages from multiple lenders that were 
willing to lend. And Miss F took up a mortgage with another lender. When she redeemed her 
Halifax mortgage, she incurred an ERC.
Miss F complained to Halifax. She was unhappy that it had declined her application, to move 
her existing mortgage with it into joint names with her father, as she didnt think this was 
reasonable.
Halifax said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that the application had failed 
credit scoring, so it had acted correctly in declining it. Halifax said when an application 
doesnt meet its credit scoring test, its usual process was that the matter would not be 
referred to underwriters. But here, as an exception, the application had been referred to 
underwriters, on more than one occasion. But they had supported the decision not to 
approve the application. So, it didnt feel it had done anything wrong.
Miss F asked our service to consider her complaint. She remained unhappy that Halifax had 
declined the application. She said her credit file showed no negative information and noted 
shed managed to get a mortgage, in joint names with her father, from other lenders. And 
she said the broker acting for her had also obtained a decision in principle from Halifax itself. 
So, she didnt agree its decision to decline the application was fair. And she said this unfair 
decision had left her with no option but to incur the ERC. So, she felt this should be 
refunded.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Halifax had acted 
unreasonably by carrying out a full assessment of the applications, given the significant 
change that was being requested to the mortgage. And overall, he didnt think Halifaxs 
decision was unfair. So, he didnt think it needed to refund the ERC.
Miss F asked for her complaint to be reviewed. She said she has demonstrated that she was 
able to manage both her Halifax mortgage and new mortgage  so she remained of the 
opinion Halifax had acted unfairly by declining her application. As Miss F did not agree with 
our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The changes Miss F asked Halifax to make to the mortgage were to remove a borrower from 
the agreement, her former partner, and, when this alone couldnt be done, to add a new 
borrower, her father, to the loan. While Miss F was an existing customer, these changes 
were significant and, under the regulations set by the Financial Conduct Authority, would be 
considered material to its affordability. So, I think it was reasonable for Halifax to consider 
the requested changes as new applications, in line with its standard lending criteria.
Halifax is entitled to decide the criteria under which it is willing to lend. It isnt obliged to lend 
 particularly where an application does not meet these lending criteria. And this lending 
criteria isnt something I can interfere with or require Halifax to change. Id also note that all 
lenders set their own individual lending criteria. So just because another lender was willing to 
provide the mortgage Miss F wanted, this doesnt mean Halifax was wrong not to lend or has 
not applied its lending criteria correctly.
Miss F has said she initially applied to remove the other party from her Halifax mortgage and 
carry on with it in her sole name. But Halifax declined this as not being affordable  which 
she accepted.
Halifax hasnt retained a great deal of information about this request. But based on what I 
have seen, I dont think Halifaxs decision was unreasonable. Miss F has said she has 
maintained the payments to the Halifax mortgage, and later to the replacement mortgage 
she took. So, has shown she could make the repayments. But Halifax wasnt only required to 
think about whether the payments could be maintained to begin with  it had to think about 
whether they were sustainable over the term of the mortgage, including if interest rates 
increased. It has said it had concerns about this based on Miss Fs disposable income after 
accounting for regular payments. And, based on the information Ive seen, I think this was a 
reasonable concern. Miss F has said she couldve taken on additional work to increase her 
income if shed needed to. But Halifax had to base its decision on the information as it stood 
at the time. And taking everything into account, I dont think it has acted unreasonably by 
saying it had concerns over whether the mortgage was affordable. So, I think it was fair of it 
to decline to transfer the mortgage into Miss Fs sole name.
Miss F has said her greater concern was that Halifax wouldnt allow the mortgage to be 
moved into her and her fathers names, jointly. She has said that her fathers income was 
greater than that of her former partner, so she doesnt think Halifax acted reasonably when 
declining this request.
Again, given the nature of the changes, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably by 
considering these requested changes in the same way it would a new lending application. 
Halifax has said that this application failed its internal automated credit scoring. This meant it 
was outside of its lending criteria. So, it wasnt willing to proceed. Halifax has said it applies 
its internal credit scoring to all applications, so that they are treated equally. I think this is fair.Miss F has said she has reviewed her credit file and score with external credit reference 
agencies, and these show no issues. But Halifax has explained that its credit scoring isnt 
just based on what is on an applicants credit file. It is based on a number of factors that form 
part of its lending criteria  including but not limited to, the loan amount, loan-to-value ratio of 
the proposed mortgage taking into account the value of the property, other accounts held 
with Halifax, income, credit commitments and credit history. So, Miss Fs credit score with 
external reference agencies wouldnt be the only factor in deciding if the application met 
Halifaxs credit scoring threshold  although I can understand why there mayve been some 
confusion about this given the similar terms.
I can see Miss F is struggling to understand why the application failed credit scoring. But the 
precise details of Halifaxs lending criteria are confidential, so that they cannot be 
manipulated. So, while I understand it was frustrating to be told the application didnt pass 
Halifaxs credit scoring, I dont think it needed to provide any further information.
Miss F has also said that her broker was able to obtain a decision in principle from Halifax, 
after it had rejected her application  indicating it would be willing to provide a mortgage in 
joint names with her father. But a decision in principle is a high-level check, based on limited 
information of what a lender might be willing to agree. It isnt a binding offer and doesnt 
mean a lender will provide a mortgage  as the mortgage would still be subject to a full 
application, and the same level of review that Halifax undertook when looking at Miss Fs 
application here.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax acted fairly by credit scoring this application. And it has 
confirmed that it did not meet the relevant threshold to be approved. So, it declined the 
application. As this application fell outside of Halifaxs lending criteria -and bearing in mind 
this criteria is a matter of its judgement and Halifax is not obliged to agree an application - I 
dont think it has done anything wrong by declining the application here.
Halifax has provided evidence that even though the application failed credit scoring, it was 
still referred to underwriters for further consideration  but was still declined. Halifax has said 
that this is outside of its usual process. I think it was fair of Halifax to do this and that this 
demonstrates it did take into account Miss Fs individual circumstances when considering 
the application. So overall, while I know Miss F does not agree, Im satisfied that the 
application was considered fairly.
Miss F has said she is unhappy that Halifax did not offer further support or suggest any 
alternatives. But given that her aim was to remove the other party from the mortgage and the 
options for doing this had been declined, I dont think there was anything else Halifax cold 
reasonably have suggested.
When the application with Halifax was declined, Miss F took a mortgage elsewhere  as she 
wanted to remove her former partner from the mortgage. And this meant an ERC was 
charged. I understand why Miss F felt she had to take a mortgage with another lender. But 
as I think Halifax hasnt acted unfairly by declining her applications to amend the existing 
mortgage, and as the ERC has been applied in line with the terms of the original agreement, 
I dont think I can fairly say that Halifax needs to waive this charge.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman