DRN-4249637
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained about the unfair settlement they felt QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) 
provided under their policy after a fire at their home. Mr and Mrs B had representation during 
the claim, but for ease and simplicity, Ill generally only refer to Mr and Mrs B.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim under their policy when a fire caused extensive damage to their 
kitchen. The damage extended to other areas of the property. Mr and Mrs B appointed a 
claims consultant to represent them for the claim and he was present when QICs appointed 
loss adjuster visited the property to review the damage and validate the claim.
After a significant amount of engagement between the parties, they were unable to agree 
settlement in three areas  payments in relation to buildings cover, contents cover and 
alternative accommodation. Mr and Mrs B also werent happy with delays to their claim.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought QIC had been reasonable in 
settlement of most of the claim, as she thought QIC had met its liability under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. However, she didnt think QIC had considered evidence that Mr and 
Mrs B had provided in relation to damage to the external walls of her property, so she said 
QIC should re-inspect the walls and re-consider its position. Mr and Mrs B disagreed, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 3 May 2023. I said:
I have reviewed all the information that has been made available to me and will set out the 
key considerations that have led me to my decision. 
I have firstly considered the settlement offered under the buildings cover. Mr and Mrs B were 
offered £104,125 for the damage caused by the fire. Mr and Mrs B felt this shouldve been 
£10,156 higher due to further recommendations from their structural engineer which theyd 
subsequently presented to QIC.
As Mr and Mrs B werent happy with the resolution of the claim, they had their own engineer 
prepare a report about the structural damage caused to their property by the fire. The report 
cost Mr and Mrs B £540 and they would like this reimbursed by QIC. QIC said it didnt ask or 
recommend that Mr and Mrs B get the report commissioned, so it wouldnt reimburse Mr and 
Mrs B. QIC said Mr and Mrs Bs engineer didnt carry out any intrusive or evasive works 
and the report was produced solely [on] a visual inspection. QIC said its settlement was 
correct and didnt take any action after reviewing the engineers report.
QIC said the investigations carried out by Mr and Mrs Bs surveyor were limited. I have read 
the report and it confirms the inspection was a visual one. Even so, I can see the report does 
observe and recommend given the extent of structural damage to roof timbers, lintels to 
window and door heads and high-level masonry, it is recommended that, as a very 
minimum, the single storey section of building is carefully removed down to windowsill level 
and rebuilt. It supports the recommendation by further commentary and photographic 
evidence.
The report has been produced by a qualified structural engineer, so I dont think QIC has 
been fair in dismissing its recommendations. The report appears thorough and professionally 
produced. I think its persuasive. I dont think QIC has provided reasonable evidence by an 
equally qualified surveyor or detailed report that contradicts what Mr and Mrs Bs expert has 
said. QIC said the report simply states recommendations. However, on this specific point the 
surveyor goes further and states this recommendation should be done as a minimum. 
Therefore, I dont think QIC has been reasonable in taking no action. So, I intend to uphold 
this complaint. 
As the minimum recommendation has been made by a qualified expert, I intend for QIC to 
implement this recommendation. Mr and Mrs B has had a quote for these works. Therefore, I 
intend for QIC to settle this aspect of the claim based upon the quote provided or to arrange 
to get the works completed itself (if they havent been done already). Mr and Mrs B have 
incurred the costs in commissioning the report to provide this evidence. As I think QIC were 
wrong, I intend that QIC refund the cost of this report (£540). As Mr and Mrs B have been 
without this money, I intend to add 8% interest (simple) from the date this invoice was paid to 
the date, QIC reimburse the costs.
Secondly, I have considered whether I think the settlement under the contents cover was 
fair. I can see Mr and Mrs Bs initial claim was for £52,389 but I can see during one of the 
site visits that it was agreed to reduce the level of cover by 17% due to under insurance. I 
havent seen any disputes from Mr and Mrs B about the level of under insurance applied, so 
I havent considered whether it was reasonable to reduce the level of claim to £43,483. 
However, QIC only paid £33,000  so I have considered whether QIC has been fair not to 
pay the balance (£10,483). 
QIC said we have disputed [Mr and Mrs Bs offer] offer and requested you to send us 
validation for these costs such as photos and receipts. Its not unusual for an insurer to ask 
for proof of ownership when a claim is made  evidence would normally be provided in the 
form of receipts or photographs. So, I dont think QICs stance here is unusual. Mr and Mrs B 
have explained many of the items were bought from abroad many years ago, so they no 
longer have this kind of evidence. Mr and Mrs B thinks QIC are questioning their integrity by 
not settling their claim and demanding this evidence. 
I dont think QIC are questioning Mr and Mrs Bs integrity, I just think it is following its normal 
process in validating a claim. I think QIC has shown some goodwill on the claim already by 
paying for a more expensive kitchen than it was obligated to in order to progress the claim. I 
dont think QIC has been unreasonable here. There are some high value items been claimed 
for. Mr and Mrs B havent been able to show any photographs of these items. If the photos 
had been destroyed in the fire, I would have sympathy for their point. But, as QIC has been 
unable to fully validate the claim, I dont think it has been unreasonable by not paying the 
claim in full.
Mr and Mrs B had said the insurer has some old photos in relation to a previous claim. I 
dont know if this is the case, and I dont know how long this kind of evidence is kept by 
insurers. But, if these photos could be found, I dont see any reason why QIC wouldnt fairly 
consider these. If it didnt, Mr and Mrs B would be able to raise a new complaint, if it is 
proven these photos do exist and havent been fairly considered.
Finally, Ive considered the delays to the claim and the impact this has had on Mr and Mrs B. 
Whilst, I think QIC has been fair in the settlement of the contents of the claim, I do think it shouldve accepted the structural engineers recommendations on the re-building of the 
external wall or commissioned a further investigation by its own expert. I think this has 
caused delays to the claim. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy entitled them to alternative accommodation for 12 months. However, 
as the delays were caused by QIC, I intend for QIC to cover reasonable alternative 
accommodation costs to 15 May 2023 (date scheduled for end of reinstatement works) and 
reasonable additional storage / council tax costs (over and above what Mr and Mrs B would 
normally have paid before the loss).
With any claim and especially where alternative accommodation is used the policyholder will 
suffer a significant amount of upheaval. However, this isnt the insurers fault, this is caused 
by the event itself. However, I do think the claim couldve been handled better and more 
efficiently by QIC. I think the delays wouldve added to the distress for Mr and Mrs B, 
especially given their vulnerable circumstances. Therefore, I intend to award £600 in 
compensation for the delays QIC caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
QIC didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs B accepted part of my decision but disagreed with the contents part of the claim. 
They said they agreed with QICs loss adjuster on site on a presented loss basis minus the 
agreed level of under insurance at 17%. Mr and Mrs B said this conversation was recorded 
by the loss adjusters bodycam and they said they followed it up with an email to the loss 
adjuster summarising what had been agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only challenge against my provisional decision was in respect to the contents part of the 
claim, so I will only re-consider this aspect. I will maintain my decision to uphold these parts 
of the claim.
In respect to the contents section of the claim, I do have sympathy with Mr and Mrs B. Mr 
and Mrs B said a conversation with the loss adjuster was recorded on a body cam. However, 
when Ive requested this evidence from QIC, the footage exists for the start of the meeting 
but then strangely isnt available for the remainder of the meeting. I am persuaded some 
agreement was made at this meeting as Mr and Mrs B followed up the meeting with a letter 
to the loss adjuster to confirm the points that were made.
Whilst I dont think the follow up letter completely proves what was agreed, I do think it 
supports Mr and Mrs Bs position that an amicable conversation was held, and it appears a 
level of agreement was made that Mr and Mrs B were satisfied with.
I think its fair for an insurer to have opportunity to validate the claim and to request further 
information. However, QIC has not responded to my provisional decision, and hasnt 
provided any further information in respect to the contents part of the claim when it wasnt 
able to provide the footage from the bodycam.
Therefore, I think on the balance of probabilities its more likely the full contents claim was 
agreed, subject to the reduction in value for underinsurance. So, I intend that QIC should 
pay the balance of the contents claim, £10,483.I issued a second provisional decision on this on 29 June 2023, updating my decision with 
the requirement for QIC to pay the balance of the contents claim. Neither Mr and Mrs B nor 
QIC responded to my second provisional decision. Therefore, I see no reason to change this 
decision, which is stated below as my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Settle the claim for the single storey section of building [being] carefully removed 
down to windowsill level and rebuilt - based upon the quote provided or arrange to 
get the works completed itself. If Mr and Mrs B has already paid this money, QIC 
should add 8% interest* (simple) (from the date this invoice was paid to the date, QIC 
reimburse the costs)
Reimburse the cost of the surveyors report (£540), plus 8% interest* (simple) (from 
the date this invoice was paid to the date, QIC reimburse the costs)
Cover reasonable alternative accommodation costs to 15 May 2023 (date scheduled 
for end of reinstatement works) and reasonable additional storage / council tax costs 
(over and above what Mr and Mrs B would normally have paid before the loss).
Pay Mr and Mrs B £600**  for distress and inconvenience.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £10,483 to settle the balance of the contents claim.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires QIC Europe Ltd to take off tax from this interest. QIC 
must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr and Mrs B asks for one.
**QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
that Mr and Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman