DRN-2376406
The complaint
Ms A has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
In bringing her complaint Ms A is represented. But as Ms A is the policyholder, I will refer to 
her throughout this decision. References to her will include what her representative has said 
on her behalf.
What happened
Ms As car insurance policy with Admiral started in March 2019. On 22 December 2019, her 
car was stolen. Ms A reported it to the police and to Admiral.
Ms A told Admiral she needed a courtesy car (CC) to keep mobile. But Admiral said she was 
only entitled to a CC if her car was being repaired by one of their approved repairers (AR) as 
a result of her car being damaged. As her car was stolen, she wasnt entitled to a CC under 
her policy.
On 6 January 2020, the police recovered Ms As car and stored it in one of their car pounds. 
Admiral contacted the police to retrieve the car and arranged an AR to assess the damage 
before deciding what course of action to take. But the police didnt release the car to Admiral 
because they were investigating the theft, therefore the AR couldnt get access to it.
Ms A complained that she wasnt given a CC and that she wasnt kept updated about what 
was happening with her car. On 10 February 2020, Admiral sent Ms A a letter answering her 
complaint. They said she wasnt entitled to a CC and that they did keep her updated.
Towards the end of March 2020, the police released the car to Admiral. As Ms A wasnt 
happy with Admiral, she brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He felt that Admiral hadnt done anything wrong. As Ms A didnt agree with our 
investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms A, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
When Ms A took out the policy she agreed to Admirals terms and conditions. The policy 
explained the circumstances in which Ms A would be given a CC. When she reported the 
theft to Admiral they started looking into her claim. At that stage the car was stolen and its 
whereabouts were unknown. The policy didnt entitle Ms A to a CC in the event her car was 
stolen. And before Admiral were able to process her claim for the theft her car was 
recovered by the police in early January 2020. Admiral wanted to get the car so their AR 
could assess to see if it was either damaged to the extent it would be a total loss, or 
damaged but repairable. Again, under the policy if the car was a total loss Ms A wouldnt 
have been entitled to a CC. She could only get a CC if the car was being repaired by 
Admirals AR. But as the car was with the police, Admiral werent able to get that 
assessment done.
I know it was very frustrating and inconvenient for Ms A and her family, especially as Ms As 
circumstances were such that she needed to have a car, but Admiral had no way of getting 
access to her car to assess it while the police held it during their investigation. So, I dont 
believe Admiral did anything wrong by not giving Ms A a CC while her car was with the 
police. Im therefore not upholding this part of her complaint.
As for Ms As complaint that Admiral didnt keep her updated. Ive seen Admirals claim 
notes and I think they did keep Ms A updated. When Admiral found out the police had 
recovered the car, Admiral made numerous attempts at contacting the police to get 
information. Most of those attempts were unsuccessful because the police didnt always 
respond to Admirals contact. So, some of the updates were merely telling Ms A that Admiral 
hadnt yet heard from the police and that they would try contacting them again. While that 
was frustrating for Ms A, the lack of information from the police wasnt Admirals fault. The 
notes show that Ms A made several calls to Admiral. Thats understandable as she was 
anxious about finding out about her car. But Ive seen that Admiral updated Ms A with 
whatever information they had. Im therefore not upholding this part of the complaint.
Finally, I should mention that Ms A has a separate complaint against Admiral thats 
connected to her claim arising from the theft of her car. As we are dealing with that complaint 
under a separate reference number, I wont refer to it in this decision, as a separate decision 
will be made about the other issues Ms A has raised.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021. 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman