DRN-3394848
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly reported adverse information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr E says he contacted Lloyds in around February 2021 to arrange what he thought was a 
pandemic payment break. He says unknown to him Lloyds set up an arrangement plan 
which was reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Mr E says that adverse 
information meant a mortgage application was rejected and a credit card account was 
closed. He says he spent some time trying to sort matters out and says Lloyds 
compensation offer doesnt go far enough. Mr E says he was caused stress by Lloyds 
actions and was trying to buy his first house.
Lloyds accepts making a mistake and has paid £300 compensation as well as removing the 
adverse information from Mr Es credit file. It says it doesnt have a record of telling Mr E that 
the arrangement would be reported to the CRAs and accepts he is unlikely to have agreed 
to it if he had been told. It also says the arrangement was reported for about three months 
and has now been removed.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and says he was told by his mortgage broker that the 
mortgage application had been rejected due to the adverse information. He says he was 
then able to obtain a mortgage when it was removed.
Our investigator thought the compensation award appropriate and thought Lloyds letter 
about the arrangement made clear that it may be reported to the CRAs. The investigator 
didnt think it possible to say if the mortgage was rejected due to the adverse information and 
thought the credit card account may not have been renewed due to other factors.
Mr E doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Lloyds has paid an appropriate 
compensation amount. I appreciate Mr E will be disappointed by my decision. 
There is no need for me to repeat in detail what took place as there is no real dispute here 
that Lloyds didnt deal appropriately with Mr E. It is not entirely clear what Lloyds says about 
the events of February 2021 as its letter to Mr E following the setting up of the arrangement 
plan suggests it may be reported to the CRAs. But it has told us it accepts responsibility for 
the misunderstanding and for what took place.
It follows that the only real issue for me to consider is the compensation level.
I appreciate Mr E says his credit card account was not renewed as a result of what took 
place. But I can see the account card expired and that decision was based in part on internal 
factors. I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible in those circumstances for the account not 
being renewed.
I have no doubt Mr E spent some time trying to speak to Lloyds about the adverse 
information on his credit file and I accept he was caused inconvenience as a result. I also 
accept that Mr E would have been concerned about the adverse information on his credit file 
as he was in the process of making a mortgage application. But I have not seen direct 
evidence from Mr Es mortgage broker that his mortgage application was refused solely due 
to Lloyds actions. So, I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds actions caused that rejection. But in 
any event, I can see that Mr E was able to successfully apply for a mortgage.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr E didnt suffer any financial loss that I have seen evidence of. 
And I am satisfied Lloyds fairly removed the adverse information which I dont think was 
reported for a particularly significant time period. I find the compensation offer of £300 fair 
and reasonable and in line with the type of awards we would make for similar complaints. 
For those reasons I cant fairly order Lloyds increase that award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman