DRN-1318170
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy covered Mrs 
W for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs W didnt agree. 
She said, in summary, that the wording on the paperwork was persuasive and made her feel 
as though she had to have the cover for her mortgage application to be successful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs W's complaint.
I dont think from what Nationwide has told us that it recommended the PPI. As Nationwide 
didnt recommend the policy, it didnt need to ensure that it was suitable for Mrs W.
So the key question I need to consider is did Nationwide give Mrs W information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading in order to put her in a position where she could make an 
informed choice about the insurance she was buying?
And, if there was a problem with the way the policy was sold, then I need to consider 
whether Mrs W is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs W's complaint for the following reasons:
Mrs W applied for the mortgage through an advisor. This complaint is only about what 
Nationwide did or didn't do. The mortgage application - which was probably completed with 
the advisor's help - included a section headed "Your Mortgage Payment Protection 
Requirements". This section included equally clear options for Mrs W to find out more details 
about PPI, or to say she wasn't interested. So I think it was made reasonably clear in the 
paperwork that the PPI was optional. Mrs W ticked the box to indicate that she was 
interested in protecting her mortgage payments against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. She was then sent a separate application form which she completed. 
I've taken into account what she's said about the persuasive wording. The mortgage and the 
PPI application forms both say, "We strongly recommend that you protect your monthly 
payments....." But there's nothing to indicate that Mrs W had to have the policy for her 
mortgage application to be successful. Mrs W says she has a vague recollection of a phone call about the PPI. And I wouldn't expect her to remember exactly what was said as it was so 
long ago. But as I can't be certain what was said during any discussion, I've relied on the 
paperwork that was completed at the time.
Overall, I think it more likely than not that Nationwide made Mrs W aware that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont think she would have been put off taking out the policy if she 
had received better information. I say this because:
Mrs W was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mrs W says she didnt need the PPI because she wouldve received six months full pay 
followed by six months half pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to sickness or an 
accident. And she had some savings. But the mortgage was a significant long term financial 
commitment and Mrs W's home was at risk if she didnt keep up with the repayments. The 
PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for accident 
or sickness. So I think the PPI couldve been a useful benefit, in addition to Mrs Ws existing 
arrangements.
Mrs W wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she 
couldve benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed better advice 
or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
The mortgage paperwork set out what the policy would cost each month and the monthly 
benefit that would be paid if a successful claim was made. So I think Mrs W was aware of 
how much she would be paying for the policy.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mrs W wouldve made a different decision about 
taking out the policy if better information had been provided to her  overall I think she would 
have still taken out the policy.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2020.Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman