DRN-2416803
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold her a Privilege 
account and Privilege Premier account. These were sold in May 2004 and August 2004 
respectively. 
Mrs Ls representative says they were mis-sold as, amongst other things, Mrs L did not need 
the benefits the accounts came with. Prior to this complaint being brought to this service Co-
op refunded the account fees Mrs L paid after her 80th Birthday.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered what Mrs L and Co-op had said and they concluded that 
the accounts had not been mis-sold and that what Co-op had already done was enough.
Mrs Ls representative disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to packaged bank accounts on our website and Ive used that 
to help me decide this case. And having considered everything provided, I dont think the 
accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs L has explained that she did not need the benefits that the accounts came with. There is 
not much evidence from the time of these sales, but that is not surprising given how long ago 
the accounts were taken out. In relation to the first upgrade, my understanding is around this 
time using an overdraft on a fee-free account cost £8 a month as well as additional yearly 
charges in addition to this. Whereas the cost of the Privilege account at the time was £6 per 
month. So, for this upgrade, Mrs L was, in effect, saving money by holding the account if she 
used her overdraft. From the account statements it does seem Mrs L was using her overdraft 
around the time she upgraded her account. Given this, I think its more likely than not that 
Mrs L agreed to this account as it had the potential to save her money if she needed to use 
her overdraft.
In relation to the second upgrade, the Privilege Premier account, I can see that shortly after 
the upgrade Mrs L used the increased fee-free overdraft that was she was automatically 
eligible for by holding the account. So I think that it is likely that she did agree to the account 
in order to increase her overdraft.
Mrs L first upgraded to the Privilege account after holding a fee-free account for a number of 
years. So, I think that she was aware that Co-op did offer fee-free accounts and that she was 
eligible for a fee-free account if she wanted one. I think that Mrs L agreed to both upgrades 
as she was interested in the overdraft benefits that they provided, which she could not obtain 
on a fee-free account. 
Co-op was required to give Mrs L important information about the accounts, so she 
understood what she was agreeing to. I do not know what information Mrs L was provided 
with when she agreed to these accounts. And I accept that she may not have been provided 
with all the information about all of the benefits when the accounts had been sold to her. But 
I dont think that finding out more information about the insurance benefits that the accounts 
came with wouldve changed her decision to take out the accounts. 
I accept that, over time, the accounts may not have provided value for money and in 
hindsight Mrs L may now regret agreeing to these accounts - especially as it seems that she 
only used her overdraft for a few months after the upgrades. But I think Mrs L was aware 
that she could have a fee-free account if she so wished. So, I dont think that Co-op mis-sold 
these accounts. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman