DRN-3370328
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as 
Britannia) after he requested the closure of his account. 
What happened
In May 2021, Mr H wrote to Britannia asking it to close one of his accounts. Britannia 
responded asking Mr H to verify his identity. Unhappy with this request, Mr H complained to 
the bank. As part of his overall complaint, Mr H raised the following concerns:
Britannias request that Mr H verifies his identity was unreasonable because he is 
disabled and was shielding at the time because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr H says 
Britannia discriminated against him by asking him to verify his identity and he thinks 
this is because of where he comes from
Britannia failed to provide a closing statement when his account was closed
Britannia tried to contact him over the phone despite him not requesting a call
Britannia sent its response to Mr Hs data subject access request (DSAR) via post 
using tracked delivery and he thinks this went against Covid-19 rules in place at the 
time
In its response, Britannia said it acted fairly when it asked Mr H to verify his identity but 
added it shouldve offered him an alternative way to do so. Britannia denied Mr Hs claims of 
discrimination and said it needed to ensure that relevant checks are completed before 
closing an account and releasing funds. The bank apologised for not offering Mr H the option 
of verifying his identity another way and offered him £75 compensation to put this right. 
Britannia also added that it made no error in the way it handled Mr Hs DSAR.
Mr H remained unhappy and asked this service to provide an independent view on his 
complaint. He says Britannia acted unprofessionally, wasted his time and caused him stress. 
One of our investigators decided that Britannia had acted reasonably when it asked Mr H to 
verify his identity. The investigator considered all of Mr Hs concerns and concluded that 
Britannia hadnt acted unfairly. The investigator also decided that the £75 compensation 
Britannia had already offered was a fair way to put right the banks failure to offer an 
alternative way for Mr H to verify his identity.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Britannia to do anything further to resolve this complaint  
Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs original request to close his account. Britannia says it was unable 
to rely on the signature Mr H provided in this letter and therefore it asked him to verify his 
identity. The bank adds that the account in question had no transactions (other than interest 
being added) since it was first opened by Mr H in 2011, so it needed to make sure the 
request was genuine. Britannia has provided a copy of Mr Hs signature that he provided at 
the time he opened this account. Having compared this to Mr Hs letter, I think it was 
reasonable for Britannia to decide that it couldnt rely on this letter alone. 
Britannia has a duty to protect Mr Hs money. So when Mr H asked for his account to be 
closed and for the funds to be transferred to another account  I think Britannia acted fairly 
when it looked to ensure the request was genuine. Britannia asked Mr H to verify his identity 
by providing identity documents. But, as Mr H points out, his disability and the fact that he 
was shielding made it difficult for him to verify his identity in the way Britannia had asked. 
Britannia already accepts that it shouldve offered Mr H an alternative way of verifying his 
identity  such as the option of doing so over the phone. The bank offered him £75 
compensation to put things right. I think this a fair way to make up for what Britannia did 
wrong and is within the region of what I wouldve asked the bank to pay, had it not already 
made an offer. 
Mr H thinks Britannia discriminated against him by asking him to verify his identity. I need to 
clarify that this service is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes 
discrimination as per The Equality Act 2010. This is because this service is an informal 
alternative to the courts, and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the 
definitions set out within the act. I know Mr H will be frustrated by this as it is clear he wanted 
a direct answer to his allegation. 
However, I can consider whether the bank has acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and to 
do that I will take a number of things, including The Equality Act 2010, into consideration.
As Ive set out above, the bank had good reason for asking Mr H to verify his identity and I 
havent seen anything that suggests Britannia acted unreasonably in relation to Mr Hs 
disability or his ethnicity. So, I wont be asking Britannia to do anything further regarding this 
point.
Mr H is unhappy that Britannia tried to contact him over the phone. I can see from one of the 
banks letters sent in June 2021 that it referred to a call attempt to discuss Mr Hs concerns. I 
can also see that Mr H later explained that he hadnt requested a discussion over the phone. 
But theres nothing Ive seen that suggests Mr H had previously told Britannia that he cant or 
wont take calls or that telephoning him would be detrimental in any way. It seems to me that 
Britannia attempted the call to explain what action it had taken  given this is likely to be 
more efficient than doing so in writing. So I dont think Britannia acted unreasonably in 
attempting to discuss this matter over the phone. 
Mr H later closed another account that he held with Britannia. Hes unhappy that the bank 
didnt send him a closing statement as part of closing his accounts. Its not my role to tell 
Britannia how it should conduct its business. If its not usual practice for the bank to send 
closing statements, this isnt something I can instruct Britannia to change unless this process 
unfairly affects Mr H. I cant see that it did  other than the fact that Mr H had to request 
these separately. I understand the closing statements have since been provided to Mr H, so 
Im satisfied the bank has acted fairly.
Mr H challenges Britannias decision to respond to his DSAR using tracked postal delivery. 
Mr H is concerned this went against Covid-19 rules that were in place around the time. 
Britannia says it cannot send DSAR documents electronically as it cant guarantee the information would go through securely  I think this is reasonable. It is my understanding that 
postal services were operating as normal throughout the pandemic and any items sent by 
normal post wouldve been handled in a similar way. So I cant fairly conclude that Britannia 
did something wrong by sending its DSAR response using this method.
In summary, Im satisfied Britannia had good reason for asking Mr H to verify his identity. 
And, although it couldve put forward a more appropriate way of doing so, I dont think the 
bank treated Mr H unfairly. Im also of the view that Britannia acted reasonably in the way it 
communicated and corresponded with Mr H. In my opinion, the £75 compensation Britannia 
has already offered is fair  so I wont be asking the bank to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking The Co-operative Bank Plc to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman