DRN-2495984
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim made against his 
home emergency policy. 
Reference to Aviva include their agents. 
What happened
Mr P raised complaints about both the sale of the home emergency policy and because a 
claim from August 2020 was declined. Aviva are the responsible party here for the claims 
related complaint and not the mis-sale  thats being considered as a separate complaint. 
Therefore, Ill only be considering Mr Ps complaint about Avivas decision to decline the 
claim. 
Mr P raised a complaint in August 2020 following Avivas decision to decline a claim at his 
commercial premises he uses as an office. Aviva said they declined the claim because the 
policy doesnt provide cover for retail or commercial premises. 
Mr P felt Aviva should accept the claim as hed previously raised a different claim in 
February 2020 at the same property, which Aviva accepted. Mr P felt that as the claim was 
accepted under the policy in February 2020 for repairs, Aviva should also accept the claim 
from August 2020. 
Aviva said theyd made a mistake and shouldnt have accepted the claim Mr P made in 
February 2020. But in any event Mr P had benefitted from the policy. Aviva maintained 
theyd fairly declined the claim from August 2020 and referred to the terms and conditions of 
the policy. As Mr P wasnt happy, he brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator here looked into the matter. He felt Aviva fairly applied the policy terms to 
decline the claim, so he didnt recommend they do anything. Mr P disagreed. He maintained 
Aviva accepted the claim from February 2020, so they should accept the claim from August 
2020. He felt Aviva didnt accept the claim because itll cost them more money due to the 
nature of the repairs required, compared to the February 2020 claim. 
As no resolution could be agreed Mr P asked for an ombudsman to decide. So, its been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is Mr Ps home emergency policy. This provides cover for, amongst 
other things, emergency repairs to leaking pipes. But the policy also sets out specific 
restrictions on cover. This says: 
Are there any restrictions on cover? 

Properties that arent covered 
Retail/Commercial 
Other premises used for business 
This means Aviva is entitled to decline a claim if a policyholders insured address is being 
used for the purposes of retail, commercial or business use. I can see theres no dispute that 
Mr Ps insured address was being used as an office, and therefore, for business. 
Whats in dispute here is that Mr P feels Aviva should accept the claim made in August 
2020. This is because Aviva had previously accepted a claim in February 2020 under the 
policy at the insured address, which was being used as an office then. So, Ive gone onto 
consider this. 
Having done so, whilst I appreciate Mr Ps argument here, the policy clearly states that cover 
wont be provided where an insured address is being used for reasons set out above under 
cover restrictions. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but I dont think by Aviva accepting the claim in February 2020 
means they should also accept the claim from August 2020. I understand why Mr P feels this 
way, but Aviva hasnt declined the claim as they cannot physically do the work, its because 
the policy doesnt provide cover as set out under the cover restrictions. 
I can see from the file notes that Mr P has had to move premises due to the damage being 
caused to his office, and I understand this has been a frustrating time for him. But, based on 
what Ive seen, I think Avivas rejection of the claim on the basis of business use is fair and 
reasonable.  
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr P. But my decision ends what we  in 
considering his claims related dispute with Aviva  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman