DRN-1696853
The complaint
Mr E complains about the service he received from Lloyds Bank plc when he called to make 
an enquiry about some direct debits and payment protection insurance.
What happened
Mr E contacted Lloyds in August 2019.  He said he wanted to query some direct debits 
which he paid between 1998 and 2003.  These were for a car loan and he wondered 
whether he had had any payment protection (PPI) on the loan.
He said he was given incorrect information during that call and as a result, had lost out on 
his opportunity to make a complaint for PPI.
Lloyds looked into his complaint and responded with its final response on 14th November 
2019. It acknowledged that Mr E was given some incorrect information and for that, it offered 
him £150.
But Mr E was not happy with that outcome.  He came to this service and told us 
compensation of around £3000 would be fair.
Our investigator considered Mr Es complaint.  He asked Lloyds for all the information it held 
in relation to it  but Lloyds initially told us it could not locate the call which Mr E had had 
with its adviser on 22nd August.  Our investigator didnt think he could ask Lloyds to do 
anymore  but Mr E insisted we locate that call and listen to it.
The call was eventually located and sent to this service when a second investigator 
considered Mr Es complaint.  Our second investigator listened to the call but didnt think he 
could ask Lloyds to do anymore either  so the matter was passed to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Es complaint centers around the phone call he had with Lloyds on 22nd 
August 2019 - so, Ive listened to that call carefully.
Mr E does start the call by telling the adviser the reason for his call  and that is to check 
whether he had any PPI on a car loan he was paying for between 1998 and 2003.  The 
adviser asks if the loan was with Lloyds or another bank in the banking group.  Mr E thinks 
not  so the adviser tells him he will log the complaint and if its not with the car finance 
company attached to Lloyds, then they will pass it onto the relevant team.
Of course, it should have been clear to the adviser, and perhaps to Mr E, that if the finance 
had not been taken out with the Lloyds Banking group, then there was very little, if anything, 
that Lloyds would be able to do for him.
The rest of the call appeared to be very helpful and Mr E thanked the adviser for his help.
I accept, as did Lloyds, that it should have been made clear to Mr E that if they had not 
provided the finance, he needed to speak to the company who did.  Mr E says this delay 
caused him to lose out on a potential claim for PPI.
I can understand Mr Es frustration. But if Lloyds had been able to check direct debit 
payments from such a long time ago, it may have been able to identify who the payments 
went to.
And Ive thought about whether I think the poor service on the phone should mean Mr E 
should be compensated in the region he suggests.  I dont think he should.  I think £150 was 
a fair offer from Lloyds.
Ive then gone on to consider the delay caused to this service dealing with Mr Es complaint 
because Lloyds was unable to locate the call he had had on 22nd August.  It took almost four 
months for this call to be sent to this service.  Im pleased to see that it was sent eventually 
because it provided the evidence for the basis of this complaint and it helped me to arrive at 
a fair and reasonable final decision.
However, I think the delay was avoidable and so I think Lloyds should pay Mr E a further 
£100 for this  making £250 in total. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Lloyds Bank plc should pay Mr E a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
This is in addition to the £150 offered in its final response.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman