DRN-3118142
The complaint
Miss K complains that TFS Loans Limited trading as TFS Loans irresponsibly 
provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
TFS provided Miss K with a loan as follows:
Miss K mainly said that TFS didnt check properly before providing the loan. She soon ran 
into payment problems and the loan hasnt been paid. When she wasnt able to resolve her 
complaint directly with TFS she bought her complaint to us.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended upholding it. He set out the 
steps TFS should take to put things right. 
TFS didnt agree that the loan was unaffordable for Miss K and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case. In brief summary, it said:
there is no dispute that between 2013 and 2017 Miss K had financial difficulty. But by 
the middle of 2017 she was in a better position 
TFS didnt believe a consumer should be denied access to credit just because she 
had a bad experience, especially when Miss K had taken responsibility for her debt 
and was making token payments
Miss K had sufficient disposable income to repay all her existing financial 
commitments including the contractual payment on another high cost loan recently 
taken out and her everyday living expenses - it also allowed a buffer to cover any 
emergency expense for the duration of the loan
Miss Ks circumstances had improved and active accounts on the credit report all 
seemed to be maintained well with good recent history in terms of repayments
TFS believed the checks it carried out were proportionate and is satisfied it had an 
accurate understanding of Miss Ks financial circumstances and its lending decision 
was fair. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
Date 
agreedAmount 
receivedTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentInterest 
(APR)Total Amount 
repayableLoan status
04/10/18 £10,000 48 £384.17 39.9% £18,440.16 Outstanding Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out in order that a lender can make a fair lending 
decision. For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan 
after paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think 
about whether there was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. If 
reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ks case.
TFS asked Miss K some questions about her income and expenditure. TFS did its own 
checks, which included obtaining information about Miss Ks credit history and taking into 
account statistical information about how much someone in Miss Ks position typically spent 
each month. Also allowing for Miss Ks spending on her other credit commitments, TFS 
worked out that, after making the monthly repayments for this loan, Miss K would still have 
around £2,296 spare cash. So TFS felt the loan would be comfortably affordable for her. 
I've taken into account what TFS has said about how it calculated the affordability of 
this loan before it agreed to lend to Miss K. But, I dont think TFS made a fair lending 
decision when it lent to Miss K based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because TFS was able to see from its credit checks that Miss K had at least four 
previous defaults with balances totalling £6,827. The most recent default had happened 
within the previous 18 months and it looked like Miss K was making some repayments 
towards defaulted accounts under a payment arrangement. Miss K also had six County 
Court Judgements (CCJs) shown on her record  mostly within the previous three years -totalling £18,806. TFS was also aware that Miss K had very recently taken out a £10,000 
loan with another high cost credit provider.
I dont think TFS thought carefully enough about what this credit history showed about 
Miss Ks overall financial situation, especially bearing in mind it had calculated that she 
had disposable income in excess of £2,000 each month. To my mind, the information 
TFS saw on the credit checks it had carried out wouldve seemed at odds with what 
TFS concluded about Miss Ks financial situation. 
Even if it accepted that Miss Ks previous adverse credit history was the result of a big drop 
in her income some years  earlier when she had lost her well paid job, I think TFS should 
have considered carefully why someone with the amount of disposable income its checks 
suggested Miss K now had would have still needed to make use of expensive credit the way 
it could see Miss K was doing  especially as she told TFS she had been in her new and 
better paid job for around three years. 
I think TFS should have questioned how much confidence it could have in the information it 
had gathered  especially as it appears also to have acquired a copy of  one page of Miss 
Ks bank statement dated 2 October 2018 (it looks like TFS supplied this to us as part of its 
business file). Whilst the information shown is very limited  it covers just part of 3 days 
worth of banking transactions - I think TFS should reasonably have been interested in finding 
out about multiple payments it could see that were being made out of the account to a single 
named business. I say that because it looks like a spending pattern that should potentially 
have alerted a responsible lender to at least make further enquiry so it could be reassured 
that it had a proper understanding of the way Miss K was using her money.
I've carefully listened to the call recordings between TFS and Miss K and I havent 
heard anything that makes me think TFS followed up this information as it should have 
done.
 
So I dont think, based on what TFS had in front of it, I can fairly say that TFS saw 
enough to reasonably be satisfied that Miss K was going to be able to make the 
repayments for this loan in a sustainable way. 
I think TFS should have considered more carefully why someone with the amount of 
disposable income its checks suggested Miss K had would have needed to make use 
of expensive credit the way it could see Miss K was doing. And I dont think, based on 
what TFS had in front of it, I can fairly say that TFS saw enough to reasonably be 
satisfied that Miss K was going to be able to make the repayments for this loan in a 
sustainable way. 
I think that TFS shouldve done more in-depth checks when considering Miss Ks loan 
application. I dont think its checks were proportionate because, to my mind, the 
amount borrowed, the total repayments Miss K would have to make for this loan and 
the length of the loan term all lead me to think, on balance, that TFS should have 
carried out a complete review of Miss Ks finances and done more to verify what she 
had told it  especially bearing in mind also what it saw on the credit checks it did carry 
out and the information it acquired.
I've looked at more bank statements provided by Miss K from around the time she took out 
this loan which I think are a useful guide to understanding Miss Ks overall financial situation 
at the time. And I think, if TFS had done a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve 
seen nothing to reassure it that this loan was going to be sustainably affordable for Miss K. 
I can see that, far from having the amount of disposable income left over each month that 
TFS had calculated, in reality Miss K was frequently barely in credit. And had TFS looked in depth at Miss Ks finances it would likely have seen that she was facing serious problems 
managing her money and learnt that Miss K was regularly spending significant amounts on 
gambling transactions.
I think, had it done a proportionate check, TFS wouldve most likely realised that this loan 
wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Miss K given the clear evidence of the extent of 
her gambling spending at the time. And TFS, as a responsible lender, shouldve declined 
Miss Ks loan application. 
I dont think the fact that this expensive loan was intended to be used partly to repay other 
expensive credit means it was fairly provided. Overall, I dont think TFS could reasonably 
have satisfied itself that providing this loan to Miss K wouldnt put her in a worse position 
given the evidence it shouldve seen which wouldve suggested there was a real and 
foreseeable risk that Miss K might use the loan for gambling purposes  as appears to be 
what happened in the event. 
All this leads me to conclude that TFS should not have provided the loan. 
Our investigator didnt feel hed seen enough to say that TFS acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss K some other way. I agree with our investigator and as 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss K is unhappy with our investigators view on 
this point I dont think I need to say more about it. 
So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over and above what I've set out 
below. But as Miss K has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges 
on a loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what TFS did wrong. For all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is fair and 
reasonable for TFS to take the following steps to put things right. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss K agrees with what I've said in my provisional decision. 
TFS said that it felt able to comment only on the information it saw and that it was entitled to 
rely on this when making its lending decision. It said it was fair to assume that it the loan 
wasnt affordable then it would have seen missed payments very early on in the loan term. 
TFS also told us that it sold the loan on a non-advised basis and so it was up to Miss K to 
decide if it was a suitable loan for her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Id like to assure TFS that I've thought carefully about everything again before coming to my 
final decision. And whilst I have highlighted above only what seem to me to be the main 
points of concern theyve raised, I have read thoroughly and taken into account everything 
they have asked me to reconsider.  TFS hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. 
Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision. 
I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a bearing on the 
outcome. 
The fact that Miss K began by making the monthly repayments to TFS doesnt mean that 
she was able to do so in a way that was ultimately sustainable for her over the loan term  
as proved to be the case when she stopped being able to maintain her payments to the 
account.  
I appreciate that TFS takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Miss K shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed. 
But she has had to pay extra on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her  which isnt 
fair or reasonable. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below 
and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss K received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Miss K made should be deducted from this amount 
if this results in Miss K having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss K bearing in mind the need to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Miss Ks credit file regarding the loan
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Miss K a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited trading as TFS Loans to take the steps 
set above to put things right for Miss K.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman