DRN-2398302
The complaint
Mr C complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a personal possessions claim he made
on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C had travelled abroad. He said he was chatting to friends outside his hotel while they
were waiting to check-in and placed his bag nearby. Mr C later learned the bag had been
stolen. He made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the bag and an iPhone which had
been inside it.
AWP considered Mr Cs claim. It noted Mr C had said on its claim form that the bag had
been some way away from him. Hed told a claims handler that the bag had been by his feet
at the hotel reception. A Police report said the bag had been on the pavement outside the
hotel. And a witness statement he gave to the Police said the bag had been stolen from a
busy street  but Mr C hadnt known when or where from.
Based on this information, AWP didnt think Mr C had shown his things had been with him or
near him when the theft happened. So it turned down his claim. It said the policy didnt cover
personal belongings or valuables that werent on a policyholders person. It also didnt think
hed complied with a policy condition to take reasonable care of his things.
Mr C wasnt happy with AWPs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Hed spoken to Mr C whod told
him that the hotel wasnt ready when hed gone to check-in. So he and his friends had
waited outside, with their bags next to them. Based on this version of events, the investigator
thought Mr C hadnt left his bags unattended. He felt theyd have been in a position to
observe the bags and intervene if they saw someone interfering with them. The investigator
recommended that AWP should pay Mr Cs claim.
AWP disagreed. It said there clearly hadnt been anyone in a position to observe the bag, as
Mr C didnt notice it was missing until he went to get his phone. It noted that in the claim
form, Mr C had said the bag was a bit further away from him. So it also considered he hadnt
taken reasonable care of his belongings.
I issued my provisional decision on 19 October 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair for AWP to turn down Mr Cs claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr Cs
policy; the circumstances of the claim and the available evidence to decide if I think AWP
handled Mr Cs claim fairly.
First, Ive looked carefully at what the policy terms say. There is personal possessions cover
for items which are lost or stolen. But this section also sets out the things that the policy
doesnt cover. This includes the two following terms:
What you are not covered for
Personal possessions unless they are on your person, locked in the accommodation you are
using on your journey or they are out of sight in the locked boot or covered luggage area of a
locked motor vehicle.
Claims for valuablesunless they are on your person or locked in a safe or safety deposit
box (if one is available) or locked in the accommodation you are using on your journey.
And the policy also includes the following general condition:
We can only pay your claim if youtake reasonable care to protect yourself and your
property against accident, injury, loss and damage and act as if you are not insured and to
minimise any potential claim.
The policy defines whats meant by valuables and this includes mobile phones. And personal
possessions includes suitcases and similar containers and their contents. So I think the
things Mr Cs claimed for  his bag and iPhone do fall within the policy definitions of personal
possessions and valuables. The policy doesnt define what AWP means by on your person,
so Ive considered the ordinary and natural meaning of the phrase. I think it means
something a person carries or which is attached to them.
Its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim for something that the policy covers. If
theyve done so, its then for an insurer to show, on balance, that an exclusion clause applies
which means that a claim shouldnt be paid. In this case, Mr C has provided evidence to
show his phone has been blocked and lost and a Police report which was obtained after he
noticed the loss. So I think, on the face of things, he has shown he suffered the loss or theft
of his things.
AWP considers its fair for it to turn down the claim because it says Mr Cs things were
effectively left unattended. It says the bag wasnt being observed and that Mr C wasnt in a
position to notice if the bag was being interfered with or prevent that interference. And it feels
that as a result, Mr C hadnt taken reasonable care of his belongings.
Ive thought carefully about what AWP has said. Our investigator thought Mr Cs testimony
suggested the bag had been close enough to him that AWP should reasonably treat it as if
the items were on his person.
Having looked closely at all of the evidence, it isnt clear to me when or how the loss
happened. It seems that Mr C has provided differing versions of events to AWP, to us and to
the Police. AWPs notes suggest that when Mr C first called, he told it the bag had been by
his feet when he checked-in to the hotel. On the claim form, Mr C said hed arrived at the
hotel by taxi, had started talking to friends outside and after a few minutes, hed wanted to
take a photo and had noticed the bag was missing. He said the bags were: on the floor
mixed with other bags a bit further from me.
Ive then turned to consider the information set out on the Police report and Mr Cs witness
statement to the Police. The Police report said that last time Mr C had his bag was about
5am and he thought hed put his bag on the pavement outside his hotel. This ties-in with his
account on the claim form. The witness statement says: lost it all on (the main road)do not
know the time or location.
Mr C has given varying accounts of when and how the bag was stolen. It isnt clear when the
loss happened or where the bag was taken from. The street named in the witness statement
is a very busy tourist location, at all hours of the day. Equally, if the bag was stolen fromoutside the hotel, again  its situated in a busy tourist location which is generally busy 24
hours a day. And Mr C told AWP that the bag was further away from him, which suggests it
wasnt particularly close to him. The fact Mr C says he was talking to his friends for a few
minutes also suggests that he wasnt in a position to keep his bag under observation. This
leads me to think he didnt take sufficiently reasonable care of his things.
Currently, based on all Ive seen, I think it was fair for AWP to conclude that the bag and the
iPhone werent on Mr Cs person  or near enough to him for him to intervene if he noticed
the theft. And I also think, given how busy the location was, it wouldve been reasonable for
Mr C to keep his phone with him, rather than store in a bag away from him. Overall, I simply
dont think Mr Cs complied with the policy condition requiring him to take reasonable care of
his things.
Even if I had thought the bag itself should be paid though, the value of the bag was only £15,
which would fall some way below the below excess of £50. So I currently think it was
reasonable for AWP to turn down Mr Cs claim.
I asked both parties to send me anything else they wanted me to consider.
AWP accepted my provisional decision.
Mr C disagreed. He said the insurers website didnt state that items had to be locked on a 
policyholders person. Hed bought the insurance so he could travel without lots of concerns. 
His versions of events might differ because the events had been a long time ago and itd 
been a bad experience. He had lots of items with him that he couldnt keep perfect control 
over. After hed been awake for a long time travelling, he didnt have the best idea about 
what was going on. He thought Id reached my provisional decision without consideration of 
his side of the story.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think it was fair for AWP to turn down Mr Cs claim and Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr C that I have considered everything hes said and sent us. I appreciate 
Mr C had travelled a long way and was likely tired when his things were stolen. But as hes 
acknowledged, he has given differing versions of events about how the loss occurred.  I 
accept that some time has lapsed since he made his claim. But based on the available 
evidence, much of which was provided very shortly after the theft - like the police report and 
witness statement - it simply isnt clear how the loss happened or that it should be covered 
by the policy terms.
Having reconsidered what Mr C told AWP and the Police about the claim, I still think it was 
fair for AWP to conclude that the items werent on Mr Cs person, or close enough for him to 
intervene if he noticed someone carrying out the theft 
Ive taken into account what Mr C has said about AWPs failure to highlight the policy terms 
relating to unattended items on its website. But most, if not all, travel insurance policies 
contain a condition requiring policyholders to take reasonable care of their things. So I think 
any policy Mr C purchased wouldve included similar terms. Given how busy the location 
was where it seems the loss happened, I still think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr C to 
keep his phone with him, rather than place it in a bag which was left at a distance from him. So I still dont think Mr C complied with the policy condition to take reasonable care of his 
things.
Overall, Im persuaded it was fair and reasonable for AWP to turn down Mr Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman