DRN-4154837
The complaint
Mrs T complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling of a claim following 
damage that was caused to her garage, under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs T contacted Ageas at the end of November 2022 to report damage to her garage and 
garden caused by a lorry colliding with her car. She says the surveyor Ageas sent didnt 
knock on her door prior to surveying the damage. He didnt bring any equipment necessary 
to remove the temporary boarding. And told her he couldnt survey the inside of the garage.  
Mrs T doesnt think the surveyor could identify structural damage to the building without an 
internal inspection. She says he told her there were no external cracks. And because he was 
a chartered surveyor, he could tell there was no structural damage. 
Mrs T says communication from Ageas was poor. It took a long time to get through to an 
agent. This was also the case when her insurance broker tried to make contact. Mrs T was 
out when a contractor came to carry out some work. She says Ageas didnt inform her of his 
visit. She found this distressing and had asked to be kept informed of who was attending, as 
she lives alone. 
In early January 2023 Mrs T says her son found a water pipe in her garage that had been 
damaged. This was caused by the lorry pushing the car into the garage door. Mrs T says this 
was missed due to the lack of an internal survey. 
In early January 2023 Mrs T says her son contacted the contractor Ageas had appointed. He 
asked why a temporary access door to the garage hadnt been installed and enquired when 
the repairs would be completed. She says she was subsequently told that the contractors 
were no longer involved in her claim. 
In its complaint response Ageas says its contractors refused to be involved due to 
aggressive and abusive behaviour from Mrs T and her sons. Because of this it offered a 
settlement payment. It also offered £100 compensation for its delay in communicating its 
offer. 
Mrs T rejected the offer and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld 
her complaint. She says Ageas should complete an inspection of the damaged water pipe 
and deal with any damage as part of Mrs Ts claim. 
Our investigator also said Ageas should consider Mrs Ts claim for damage to stored items 
in the garage. Although she noted Mrs T hadnt provided information to substantiate these 
losses to the business. Because of the delays and poor communication our investigator says 
Ageas should pay a further £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused. 
Ageas didnt agree it should pay further compensation. It says it was Mrs Ts behaviour and 
that of her sons that resulted in its contractor not being able to complete the repairs. It says 
this also meant it couldnt inspect the damage to the water pipe. It subsequently made an 
offer to cover the cost of repairs Mrs T provided quotes for. This included plumbing work for 
the water pipe. In total Ageas offered £3,345.59. Mrs T says she accepts this covers the cost 
of repairing the damage caused by the incident. But she doesnt accept this in resolution of 
her complaint. 
Mrs T says the compensation offered isnt enough to acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience Ageas caused her. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mrs Ts complaint. I wont be adding to the compensation 
award our investigator made, which I understand will come as a disappointment to her. But I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ageas accepted Mrs Ts claim for the damage caused when a lorry pushed her car into her 
garage door. I can see she registered the claim on 30 November 2022. Her sons were able 
to put temporary boarding in place to make the garage secure. However, this meant 
screwing boards into the garage door frame, and that the garage couldnt easily be 
accessed. I acknowledge Mrs Ts comments that her boiler and electrical switches are 
housed in the garage, which caused her anxiety because of the lack of access.
Ive read the claim records provided by Ageas. This shows Mrs T called it two days after 
making her claim. The note says she was expecting a call from Ageas that didnt happen. It 
also says Ageas had appointed an agent to deal with the claim. The records show its agents 
didnt think a structural engineer was required. Rather it said it would appoint a surveyor who 
could decide if this was necessary.
A week after Mrs T registered her claim, her broker contacted Ageas to confirm whether the 
surveyor had been appointed. The note says a surveyor was booked to visit the following 
day. Concerns were raised by Mrs T about access to the boiler and isolation switches at this 
time. 
Ive read Mrs Ts account of the surveyor, whom she says was rude and arrogant. She 
describes how he arrived with his daughter and began the survey without first identifying 
who they were. She says the surveyor also had to rely on her son to remove temporary 
boards so he could see the garage door. 
I note Mrs Ts comments that the surveyor told her he would arrange for someone to remove 
the garage door, replace the temporary boards, and include a temporary access door. She 
says no temporary access door was provided. She then says a contractor came round the 
next day, which was again unannounced. The garage door was removed, and temporary 
cover reinstated but no temporary access door was provided. Mrs T says she was caused 
further distress by this unannounced visit. 
I can see from Mrs Ts timeline of events that she says a number of calls were made in 
December 2022 to chase progress. She obtained the assistance of her insurance broker to 
try and get through to Ageas. I note her comments that this involved long periods on hold. 
Eventually she was told she could make enquiries to use her own choice of contractor to 
speed things along. Mrs T says around this time, due to the stress she was being caused, she had to visit her GP for medication to help her sleep. 
In early January 2023 a damaged water pipe inside the garage was identified by Mrs Ts 
son. I can understand her concern that this hadnt been identified earlier. Particularly given 
she had raised this point about potential further damage inside the garage. Mrs T says she 
called Ageass agent to express her dissatisfaction with the progress of her claim. I note her 
comments that the lady she spoke with was rude. She says she also had to request the 
costing figures for the repairs as this hadnt been provided as promised. 
In her timeline Mrs T says her son made some calls to understand what was happening with 
her claim. He was promised a call back, but this didnt happen. She says her son left 
voicemail messages as both the surveying firm and the contractor were closed. On 6 
January 2023 Mrs T says her son called the surveyor and was told he should contact Ageas 
as they were no longer involved. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ts concerns that she was advised the surveyor had inspected the 
interior of the garage on his first visit. She says this isnt true. She says was then told she 
could appoint her own surveyor as Ageas had none in the local area. The costs could then 
be submitted to Ageas. Mrs T didnt think it should be her responsibility to arrange this. 
Ive also read Ageass account of events. It says Mrs Ts sons behaviour was aggressive 
and rude towards its surveyor and contractors. It has supplied an email it received from its 
agent dealing with the claim on 5 January 2023. This says Mrs T has displayed a poor 
attitude and behaviour to all parties. It also explains that its contractors and suppliers arent 
prepared to deal with her anymore. The agent comments that Mrs T wants a structural 
survey, but it doesnt agree this is necessary. The email requests that Mrs Ts claim is 
settled with a cash payment for £1,866.48 minus the policy excess. 
From subsequent emails I can see this message wasnt communicated to Mrs T until early 
February 2023. Ageas offered £100 compensation for its mishandling of this point in its final 
complaint response. 
From reviewing both partys timeline of events, and testimony, its clear each have accused 
the other of inappropriate behaviour and communication. I asked Ageas if it had call 
recordings or other information to support what happened. It responded with a call recording 
between Mrs T and its claim handler. Ive listened to this call which lasts around 15 minutes. 
Mrs T describes the concerns she has with the surveyor and the progress of the claim. 
Ageass agent confirms an estimate for the work had been received and was being 
validated. The agent agrees a cash settlement figure will be provided for Mrs T to consider, 
given her concerns about the contractors being used. The call was conducted amicably by 
both parties. I didnt observe any inappropriate behaviour.  
Ageas also provided a copy of the site report its surveyor produced. This confirms the 
garage door needs replacing with some redecoration to the frame. The report says no 
internal inspection was possible, but there were no signs of structural movement. Theres no 
reference to any behavioural issues. 
Ive seen an email Ageas claim handler received in December 2022 from the property 
services contractor that was involved. This describes aggressive and rude behaviour from 
Mrs T and her sons, toward the surveyor and members of its staff over the phone. It also 
says the garage contractor wasnt prepared to do any work due to rude behaviour. The 
contractor says there was no indication of any cracking, yet Mrs T was adamant a structural 
engineer was needed.  
I havent been provided with any other call recordings and I wasnt party to any of the conversations that took place in person. However, the contractors and surveyor employed by 
Ageas have reported inappropriate behaviour from Mrs T and her sons, siting this as the 
reason for discontinuing their involvement in her claim. A detailed account of this has been 
provided, which I have no reason to disbelieve. Similarly, I have no reason to disbelieve Mrs 
Ts testimony. From this its clear the relationship between all parties deteriorated to a point 
that the contractors could no longer be involved in the claim.     
I have no reason to doubt Mrs T testimony that the surveyor failed to introduce himself by 
knocking on the door before proceeding with the survey. I think its reasonable that the 
surveyor would do this before carrying out an inspection. Mrs T is elderly and has explained 
how she was caused anxiety by this incident. This was exacerbated the following day when 
Mrs T says a contractor turned up unannounced. I cant see from the records that Ageas or 
its agents made her aware of this appointment.  
Its now accepted by Ageas that there was an issue inside Mrs Ts garage as the water 
mains pipe had been damaged by the collision. Mrs T has since accepted the settlement 
payment Ageas offered and says shes satisfied this covers the cost of repairing all the 
damage caused. So, I dont think its been shown a structural engineers input was required. 
That said there was damage caused to an internal part of Mrs Ts garage as a result of the 
car crashing through her garage door. Ageass surveyor says he couldnt check for damage 
internally, but I note a further inspection wasnt arranged. I think this shouldve been done to 
ensure all claim related damage was identified. Ageas refers to poor behaviour preventing 
this. But theres no reference to checking the inside of the garage in the survey report or any 
other records. Its clear that this this added to the anxiety Mrs T felt.   
Having considered all of this I think communication shouldve been better and delays 
couldve been avoided. Ageas shouldve kept Mrs T updated regarding who was visiting her 
property and when. It delayed offering a settlement payment and failed to fully assess the 
damage that had been caused. But I also accept that Mrs T and her sons behaviour is likely 
to have impacted negatively on the handling of her claim.  
In summary I think Ageas should compensate Mrs T for the failings identified with its 
handling of her claim and the distress and inconvenience this caused. I agree with our 
investigator that a further £150 payment is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited should:
pay Mrs T a further £150 in compensation to acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman