DRN-2438921
The complaint
Mr T complains American Express Services Europe Limited, trading as American Express 
(Amex) insisted on him supplying it with a copy of his bank statement before it would 
process a credit balance refund. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr T said he provided all the information necessary, without the statement, for Amex 
to satisfy itself it had identified him correctly, and to meet its legal obligation to him 
and the law. Mr T also explained how, in his view, it was impossible not to conclude 
that Amex made an unnecessary request. 
Amex said it asks customers to provide a copy of the bank statement where the 
credit balance refund is over £500 and where there is no direct debit set up. It said as 
part of its anti-money laundering process it needs a verified payment source to send 
the funds back to. 
Our role is to resolve individual disputes between businesses and consumers. We 
dont have the power to tell a business how to develop its internal policies nor can we 
review the adequacy of its processes. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). 
There are extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses to prevent money 
laundering. But these regulations are not prescriptive and its up to the individual 
business to put in place appropriate measures. Amex has said it requires the bank 
statement where there is no verified payment source, such as a direct debit. Im 
afraid its not up to me or Mr T to determine whether this is or isnt necessary or 
whether Amex has met its legal obligation. Thats for the FCA to decide. My role is to 
decide if it applied its process fairly.
I understand Mr Ts frustration. He sees this as an unnecessary use of his personal 
information. Ive seen a copy of the internal process for credit refunds and it does 
include the need for evidence of a bank statement where there is no direct debit set 
up. So, Im satisfied this is part of the Amex process. As Mr Ts refund balance was 
over £500 and he didnt have a direct debit set up Im satisfied the process was 
applied fairly. 
Amex offered Mr T an alternative method of receiving the credit refund balance  by 
cheque. So, Im satisfied he didnt need to send his bank statement or the letter from 
the bank which he eventually sent because he could have opted to be sent a cheque. 
So, I think Amex has acted fairly.
Amex added that providing the statement also helps to ensure the details being used 
are correct, which I consider reasonable.
Mr T has also complained he didnt receive a final response letter. Im not disputing 
he didnt receive it. I can see there is a copy of the final response letter, dated 6 April 
2020, in the file. Where evidence is missing, I must decide what I believe likely to 
have happened. Im satisfied the letter was generated and as Mr T has received 
other communication e.g. statements, I think it likely the letter was sent. So, it 
wouldnt be fair of me to hold Amex responsible for Mr T not receiving it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about American Express Services 
Europe Limited, trading as American Express. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman