DRN-4066502
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) because it caused delays 
in handling and settling their travel insurance claim. 
Any reference to IPA includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 28 March 2022. The 
policy expired on 28 March 2023 and IPA was the underwriter. 
While abroad, Mr and Mrs M were involved in a boat accident and they both sustained 
injuries to their back. Mr M had to be hospitalised for surgery to his spine. They say IPA took 
too long to authorise payment for the surgery, caused them worry and stress and 
communication throughout was poor. 
They made a complaint to IPA. It agreed delays were caused in guaranteeing payment for 
the surgery. It also agreed that communication while they were abroad was poor in updating 
and keeping them informed about the claim. IPA offered £150 compensation in recognition 
of its failings. 
Unhappy with the response from IPA, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it and concluded IPA could have handled the claim better and 
provided better service, so she recommended IPA pay in total £350 compensation. 
IPA accepted the investigators findings. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept it and asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
They say theyre not happy with the compensation amount because of the unnecessary 
distress caused by IPA in the way the claim was handled and lack of communication and 
updates throughout. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
My understanding is that IPA has now reimbursed costs incurred by Mr and Mrs M for the 
actual claim they submitted, and this has been done so in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
The key issue thats in dispute now is the £150 compensation IPA has offered. 
Mr and Mrs M say they suffered significant distress and inconvenience as a result of IPAs 
handling of the claim and the service it provided. They say £150 doesnt reflect the impact 
that was caused to them and its not fair and reasonable for what happened. I will therefore 
be focusing on this issue. 
I appreciate and acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M went through a traumatic experience and 
dealing with everything that followed must have been very difficult and very challenging, 
particularly as they were abroad. I also understand the difficulties Mrs M faced having to deal 
with arranging treatment and Mr Ms operation as well as having to deal with her own injuries 
shed suffered.
Ive considered everything carefully and looked at what happened from the date the accident 
happened in July 2022. Having done so, I think £350 total compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain why and have provided my reasons as follows:
There was an issue with Mr M being admitted to a public hospital rather than a 
private hospital. I can see there was some confusion regarding whether Mr M should 
be repatriated or transferred to a private hospital. While IPA was trying to obtain 
medical information to make the decision, which is what would be expected, there 
was a lack of communication in updating Mrs M during this time. In one 
communication, Mr and Mrs M were told repatriation was being considered and an 
email followed which said the medical team had advised to repatriate Mr M to the UK. 
I think there was a delay in Mr M receiving treatment and having an operation which 
could have been avoided. The information IPA requested regarding seeing an 
updated medical report and whether his surgery could have taken place in the public 
hospital using Mr Ms Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) wasnt unreasonable. 
But there was delay and confusion caused which meant that Mr Ms surgery took 
place later than it should have. The decision to undertake the surgery was made 
early on 24 July 2022 but he wasnt taken in until around 9pm that day even though 
IPA had been informed Mr M wasnt fit to fly and that the public hospital had a long 
waiting list. So, it was right for Mr M to be transferred to the private hospital and have 
the surgery there. And I can see while surgery was authorised, it wasnt until Mrs M 
called IPA around 9pm to ask whether the guarantee of payment was given that 
surgery then took place soon after.
I also note what happened regarding arranging accommodation for Mrs M and Mr M 
when he was released following surgery. Accommodation was booked by IPA for a 
few days as a time in a hotel nearby and the guarantee of payment for this portion 
was provided for a few days at a time too. This isnt unreasonable as it depended on 
how Mr M recovered from the surgery and when he would be issued with a fit to fly 
certificate. However, new rooms were allocated to them by the hotel and having just 
had surgery, Mr M and Mrs M (who had also sustained an injury) were asked to 
move rooms. I think this could have been avoided if IPA had communicated with the 
hospital or their medical team to ascertain timescales for Mr Ms recovery and 
readiness to either stay longer in the country or return to the UK. I think IPA also 
could have communicated better and updated Mr and Mrs M during this time to 
manage their expectations.
Mr and Mrs M were asked to go to a nearby clinic to obtain a fit to fly certificate but 
when they got there, they were told the treating hospital could only provide this. So, 
they had to make an unforeseen journey to the hospital. But bearing in mind, Mr M 
was recovering from surgery and Mrs M had injuries also, the situation could have 
been handled better by IPA and had it communicated better with the hospital about 
obtaining the certificate, the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs M could have been avoided. 
Ive mentioned above that Mrs M had also sustained injuries in the accident. But as 
she wasnt hospitalised, she had no option but to communicate with IPA and make 
necessary arrangements for Mr M. I cant see that IPA has taken Mrs Ms situation 
into account and the worry and frustration caused to her during this difficult time. 
Overall, taking everything into account, I think IPA could have been handled the claim better 
and the communication during this time could also have been better. Based on all the 
available evidence, some of the delays could have been avoided. I acknowledge that IPA 
has agreed the service could have been better and apologised for this. However, looking at 
everything carefully, I think a further £200 in addition to the £150 already offered by IPA is 
fair and reasonable in recognition of the failings and the distress caused to Mr and Mrs M. I 
do appreciate Mr and Mrs M dont think this sufficiently recognises the impact caused to 
them. But, based on what happened, I dont think IPA needs to do anything further than 
award £350 in total.  
Putting things right
To resolve Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, IPA should:
Pay £350 total compensation for the poor service it provided in handling the claim.
Pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr and Mrs M accept my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about Inter Partner Assistance 
SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman