DRN-3636383
The complaint
Mr H complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a motor
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I refer to the insurance company named above, and I include
repairers and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car, first registered in 2016.
For the year from mid-January 2021, Mr H had the car insured on a comprehensive policy
with Admiral.
Unfortunately, on the evening of 29 October 2021(a Friday), the car was damaged in an 
accident. Admiral arranged recovery of the damaged car from the scene of the accident. A 
few days later, the car arrived at Admirals repairer.
From 15 November 2021, Admiral or its repairer provided a courtesy car for Mr H.
Admirals repairer returned Mr Hs car after repairs. Later in November 2021, Mr Hs mother
took his car back to show the repairer some faults.
Mr H complained to Admiral about the following:
Broken wing mirror
Damaged clutch
Someone had driven his car and used almost a tank of petrol.
Admiral got an engineer to review evidence of the repair. By a final response dated early
December 2021, Admiral turned down the complaint.
On about 21 December 2021 Mr Hs own garage issued two invoices for repairing the wing
mirror and replacing the clutch.
Mr H brought his complaint to us in January 2022. He asked for compensation for the
following:
Petrol that was used between Admiral collecting his car and it being received at its 
repairer 5 days later.
Admiral didnt provide a courtesy car during repair. So he needed to insure his 
sisters car (3 x £45.43 = £136.29).
After repair, his car still wasnt driveable because of the extra damage. 
Petrol when his mother had to drive him back to his work course because his car was 
not driveable. (Estimate £50).
He had to insure his sister's car to get back to his work course. (£50.02).
His mother had to insure his car to take it back to Admirals repairer (£21.84). She 
also had to insure his car to take it to his garage to be repaired as he was away for 
work (£21.84).
Wing mirror £66.00.
Cost of repairing clutch £675.68.
Considerable inconvenience and stress the whole episode has caused both him and 
his relatives.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that:
The repairer hadnt put the wing mirror back properly and it wasnt functional.
The clutch issue was a result of the accident which shouldve been included in the 
repairs on the claim.
She was unable to evidence that Admiral unnecessarily used petrol from the car.
She hadnt identified significant delays on the claim or poor customer service from 
Admiral.
Shed seen no explanation from Admiral as to why it hadnt provided a courtesy car 
to Mr H sooner or covered his costs.
Admiral couldve done more on the claim regarding providing the courtesy car and 
how the additional repairs were considered.
The repairs werent carried out satisfactorily in the first place. So Mr H incurred the 
financial loss to insure his mother to assist him with getting the car to the repairer/s.
The investigator recommended that Admiral should:
1. reimburse Mr H with the repair costs for the wing mirror;
2. reimburse Mr H with the repair costs for the clutch;
3. reimburse Mr H for the cost of insuring on his sisters car and the cost to insure his 
mother on his car;4. provide compensation of £200.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H   
and to Admiral on 12 July 2022. I summarise my findings:
There wasnt enough evidence to show that Admiral was responsible for unfair or 
unreasonable depletion of the petrol. So I didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Admiral to pay compensation for that.
I was satisfied that after Admirals repairer removed and replaced the mirror, it
hadnt re-assembled the casing correctly. And Mr H was sufficiently concerned about 
it to pay his garage to fix it. So I held Admiral responsible for reimbursing the invoice 
of £66.00. As Mr H has been out of pocket since 21 December 2021, I was minded to 
direct Admiral to pay interest at our usual rate.
I was not minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse Mr H his 
mothers petrol costs.
Admirals offer of £140.00 for the delay in providing a courtesy car was, in my view, 
fair and reasonable  and more than the £90.86 and £21.84 (total £112.70) plus 
interest that I would otherwise have directed Admiral to pay.
I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr H £100.00
for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr H or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I  intended to direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Mr H:
1. £66.00 to reimburse the invoice for the wing mirror; and
2. simple interest on £66.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from 21 December 2021 to the 
date of reimbursement. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £140.00 for delay in providing the courtesy car; and
4. £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr H disagreed with the provisional decision in part. He says, in summary, that:
His garage suggested that the clutch in a car like his should last 70,000 miles.
Before the accident, his car was in good condition with low mileage (34,000 miles). 
He would have noticed a worn clutch. The clutch showed no signs of wear. The car 
was full of petrol.The accident did not damage the clutch.
When he called Admiral, they said they would arrange for the car to be recovered but 
the time of recovery moved ever backwards each time he called until he was forced 
to leave the car unattended to be collected later that night. By the time he got back 
home (several hours later) it had still not been collected. 
The car should have been transported properly on a trailer.
The delay in getting the car to the repairer was out of his hands. Admiral shouldve 
provided a courtesy car by 1 November.
His car did not actually arrive at the repairer until Wednesday 3 November, 5 days 
later. It was empty of petrol. There was no explanation from Admiral as to where his 
car had been in this time.
His complaint about the petrol missing from the car was not so much about the cost 
of the petrol. He wanted to know how most of a tank of petrol had been used and 
who had driven the car as he believes this is when the clutch was damaged.
Also in the final letter dated 7 December 2021, Admiral said it would refund him for 
the petrol that had been used. This means Admiral is admitting that they had used 
the petrol in his car, so admitted the car had been driven.
No courtesy car was provided until the late afternoon of 15 November when he was 
on a work course and could not use it. It was collected again on the afternoon of 
Wednesday 17 November, so he had no actual use of a courtesy car.
After the repairs, he first tried to drive the car on Sunday 21 November. He 
immediately noticed a seriously damaged clutch and wing mirror. He was due to 
attend a work course 360 km away the next morning. His mother had to drive him 
that evening and then drive back. The £50.00 estimate is probably a little low as it 
takes most of a tank of petrol to cover the distance there and back.
His mother, with difficulty given its condition, managed to get his car back to the 
repairer as suggested. The distance to the repairer is 5 km, taking about 10 minutes. 
The repairer said Admiral had not given permission for them to look at the car and 
assess the problem so they could do nothing. They did confirm that the car had 
arrived with very little petrol and advised him to try to get a record of how the car was 
delivered to them. Admiral refused to provide this record despite him asking for it 
multiple times. His mother had to struggle to drive the car back without it having been 
looked at by the repairer. The fact that she managed to get the car there and back 
does not mean it was driveable in the accepted sense.
The amount of £21.84 is for the cost of insuring the car for his mother to take it to 
Admirals repairer. This is not involved in the delay in providing the courtesy car so is 
outside the £140.00. His mothers visit to his trusted repairer was necessary for the wing mirror repair as 
well as the clutch. Therefore the cost of insurance for this visit should be covered.
He gave multiple examples of poor customer service.
Admiral hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Driving the damaged car
I have no reason to doubt Mr Hs evidence that hed put £35.00 worth of petrol in the car on
23 October 2021 and a further £5.40 on the day of the accident. But  even with little use in
the intervening week  those payments dont fully support his statement that the tank was
almost full at the time of the accident.
Admiral says that the tank was almost empty on 3 November 2021. I dont see anything in 
the letter of 7 December that admits that anyone had driven Mr Hs car.
Theres not enough evidence to show that Admiral was responsible for unfair or 
unreasonable depletion of the petrol. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to 
pay compensation for that.
Clutch
Mr H says that there was no problem with the clutch before the accident. I accept that he
hadnt noticed a problem.
Admirals repairer has said the following:
When I estimated the vehicle and moved it I did notice it appeared that the clutch
was riding high.
So the repairer accepts that it moved the vehicle. I find that there was an issue with the
clutch after the accident and before repairs.
I accept Mr Hs statement that the recorded mileage was about 34,000.
After the accident and repair, Mr H did notice a problem with the clutch. And Mr H was
sufficiently concerned about it to pay his garage invoice of £675.68 to fix it.
However, a clutch is a part that wears out with use. And I consider that the onus is on Mr H
to show that either a recovery driver or the repairer did something to cause damage to the 
clutch. I dont consider that theres enough evidence to show either of those causes.
I find it more likely  in the context of a 2016 hatchback  that the clutch was worn before the
accident, but Mr H hadnt noticed it. So  unlike the investigator  I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse Mr H the cost of the replacement clutch.
Wing mirrorAdmiral says its repairer needed to blend the left -hand (nearside) door, so it removed and
replaced the nearside wing mirror. Admirals engineer says that this was simple operation
and theres no evidence of the glass being damaged.
However, Mr Hs garage invoice includes the following:
work done
To check over the loss of operation of N/S front door mirror. Mirror glass does not
have full movement. To strip out mirror casing and reassemble correctly to allow full
mirror movement as required. Refit all as removed.
From that, Im satisfied that after Admirals repairer removed and replaced the mirror, it
hadnt re-assembled the casing correctly, allowing full movement of the glass. And Mr H was
sufficiently concerned about it to pay his garage to fix it. So I hold Admiral responsible for
reimbursing the invoice of £66.00.
As Mr H has been out of pocket since 21 December 2021, I find it fair to direct Admiral to
pay interest at our usual rate.
Courtesy car and extra insurance costs
Admiral accepts that it shouldve provided a courtesy car before 15 November 2021. Ive
seen evidence that on 1 November, 6 November and 14 November 2021, Mr H paid £45.43
for cover to drive his sisters car.
But the accident had happened on the evening of Friday 29 October. 1 November was the 
following Monday and M Hs car hadnt arrived with the repairer. So I dont find it fair to say 
that Admiral or its repairer shouldve provided a courtesy car from that Monday. 
If Admiral hadnt made its offer, I wouldve found it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to 
reimburse Mr H the two later payments £45.43 totalling £90.86, plus interest from the dates 
of those payments.
Mr H has said that his mother incurred petrol costs in driving him (in her car) on 21 
November. And I find it likely that the main concern with his car was the clutch, for which I 
havent found Admiral responsible. Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Admiral to reimburse Mr H his mothers petrol costs.
Ive seen evidence that, for the 24 hours between 23 and 24 November 2021, Mr Hs mother
took out cover for his car at a cost of £21.84. I accept that this was so that she could drive it
back to see Admirals repairer while Mr H was working.
I consider that Admirals repairer shouldve fixed the wing mirror the first time or on this
return visit. And I accept that Mr H was responsible for paying or reimbursing the £21.84. So
- if Admiral hadnt made its offer - I wouldve found it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to
reimburse Mr H that first payment of £21.84 plus interest from 23 November 2021.
The car still had an issue with the adjustability of the nearside wing mirror and with its clutch.
Ive seen evidence that on 5 December 2021, Mr H paid £50.02 for cover to drive his sisters
car. He says this was because his car was undriveable. But his mother had driven it a couple
of weeks earlier. Moreover, Ive found it likely that the main concern with his car was the clutch, for which I 
havent found Admiral responsible. Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Admiral to reimburse Mr H the £50.02.
Ive seen evidence that, for the 24 hours between 6 and 7 December 2021, Mr Hs
mother again took out cover for his car at a cost of £21.84. I accept that this was so that she
could drive it to his repairer. So I dont accept that Mr Hs car was undriveable at this time.
Moreover, Ive  found it likely that the main concern with his car was the clutch, for which I 
havent found Admiral responsible.
Therefore I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse Mr H that second 
payment of £21.84.
Admirals offer of £140.00 was for the delay in providing a courtesy car. I accept Mr Hs point 
that both his mothers payments of £21.84 werent related to delay in providing a courtesy 
car. Nevertheless the amount of £140.00 is more than the £90.86 and £21.84 (total £112.70) 
plus interest that I would otherwise have directed Admiral to pay. So overall I find it fair
and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay £140.00 for loss of use of the courtesy car and 
resulting financial loss.
Distress and Inconvenience
Mr H already had a problem when he first contacted Admiral. Thats why he contacted
Admiral. I consider it inevitable that the accident and the need to make a claim were going to
involve some upset and time and inconvenience.
Ive found shortcomings for which Admiral was responsible in relation to the wing mirror and
the delay in providing a courtesy car. These shortcomings caused distress and 
inconvenience. 
I can only consider the effect on Mr H personally and not on family members who Admirals 
policy didnt cover. Nevertheless, I find it likely that Mr H was upset at the inconvenience to 
his mother and his sister.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr H £100.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Putting things right
I hold Admiral responsible for reimbursing the invoice of £66.00. As Mr H has been out of 
pocket since 21 December 2021, I find it fair to direct Admiral to pay interest at our usual 
rate.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay £140.00 for loss of use of the courtesy 
car and resulting financial loss.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr H £100.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H:
1. £66.00 to reimburse the invoice for the wing mirror; and2. simple interest on £66.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from 21 December 2021 to the 
date of reimbursement. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £140.00 for loss of use of the courtesy car and resulting financial loss; and
4. £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman