DRN-2908928
The complaint
Mr S complains that Darlington Building Society (Darlington) rejected his mortgage 
application the property valuation, despite already knowing all of the information that was 
contained within the valuation report.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr S approached Darlington for a £200,000 self-build mortgage. He was 
told in October 20202 that his application was agreed in principle, and in January 2021 
Darlington let Mr S know his application was approved, subject to a valuation. 
The following week Mr S says he paid £600 to Darlington for the valuation to take place.
Around two weeks after the valuation taking place, Darlington told Mr S that the application 
had been declined. It said the decline was based on information within the valuation report 
which rendered the property he was buying insufficient security for the lending. 
Mr S made a complaint to Darlington. In the complaint he said that there was nothing in the 
valuation report that Darlington didnt know at the time he initially applied for the mortgage. 
He says that if Darlington had reviewed the application more closely, it could have told him 
up front that it wouldnt be prepared to lend to him, which wouldve saved him the £600 
valuation fee plus the numerous hours hes spent on the matter. 
Darlington maintained that the valuation report contained information that it didnt receive at 
application stage. So it didnt think it had wrongly or unfairly asked Mr S to pay for a 
valuation. 
Our investigator considered what had happened and didnt recommend the complaint should 
be upheld. He said it was Darlingtons commercial judgement as to whether to lend to Mr S 
or not, and he didnt think Darlington had treated Mr S unfairly.
I should note at this stage that Mr S initially disputed the valuation itself. But as our 
investigator explained to Mr S, thats a separate complaint against the surveyor. So I wont 
be able to consider that aspect as part of this decision. 
As Mr S didnt agree with the investigators opinion on his complaint against Darlington, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision and bring matters to a close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im afraid Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I asked Darlington to give me the information it received from Mr S at the time of application, 
and Ive compared this information with the valuation report. 
I can see that in the initial application Mr S said he was purchasing a property that was not 
yet built. Theres not much further explanation or information beyond this, apart from the fact 
that he already owned the property next door. 
Darlington has provided an extract of an email from its mortgage underwriter, showing they 
did have some concerns about lending against the property Mr S was applying to borrow to 
build. But they explained theyd be happy for a valuation to take place, and to agree the 
borrowing if the valuation repot alleviated their concerns and supported the application. 
Turning to the valuation report itself, I can see that theres a fair amount more detail about 
the nature of the conversion of the property that was to take place. The report explains that 
the property being purchased, and the adjacent property, would be reliant on each other for 
structural integrity. And it also explains that the construction would have to be simultaneous 
with the adjacent property in order to take place. 
Based on this, I cant agree that Darlington had all of the information given in the valuation 
report at the time of application. The application form is fairly brief and I believe that the 
further information would only have become apparent to a suitably trained surveyor at 
valuation stage, as opposed to a member of Darlingtons staff who wouldve received the 
initial mortgage application. And I wouldnt expect the member of staff to question or discuss 
the structural composition of the property at application stage, as thats what the valuation 
stage is for. Its not for me to make a finding on how Darlington used the information 
contained within the valuation report, but Im satisfied that it was new information that wasnt 
included with the application. Ultimately, it was Darlingtons commercial judgement that the 
further information made the property unsuitable to lend against, and Darlington is free to 
make that decision.  
I do recognise that this is frustrating for Mr S, not least because of the financial loss that it 
resulted in. But I dont think Darlington was unfair to decline the application on the basis that 
it did.
Ive also reviewed Darlingtons terms and conditions to ensure it has complied with its own 
procedures in terms of changing the valuation fee and not refunding it, despite the declined 
application.
I can see from the terms and conditions, which Mr S signed on 24 September 2020, that 
they state:
Whether or not a loan is made, if the terms of the product I am applying for require that I 
meet the cost of any valuation, I will make the payment. If my application is cancelled and 
the valuation has not been carried out, the fee I have paid will be refunded.
So Im sorry to say that as a valuation was required, and carried out, Mr S isnt entitled to the 
valuation fee being refunded. 
Id like to reassure Mr S that Ive thought very carefully about everything hes said, and I do 
realise this wont be what he was hoping Id say. But I havent found that Darlington Building 
Society has acted unreasonably or treated Mr S unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons set out in my decision, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Darlington 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman