The complaint  
Mr M complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have 
mishandled his claim for legal expenses, which has left him exposed to significant cost 
orders.  
What happened  
The details of this complaint are now well known to both parties  the background of which 
can be found in my second provisional decision, which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. I invite both parties to familiarise themselves with the details of the dispute again if 
necessary  including which parts of Mr Ms complaint fall within our jurisdiction  before 
continuing with my final decision.  
It should be noted that when I refer to the respondent within this decision  it is in reference 
to the respondent of Mr Ms legal action rather than DAS as the re spondent of this complaint.  
I issued my second provisional decision on this complaint on 18 September 2020. In 
summary, I said:  
I didn t consider DAS to be liable for the cost application resulting from Claim 15,
which they withdrew funding for in April 2016 and which Mr M continued privately 
despite receiving a drop -hands settlement offer from the respondent. So I didnt think
it would  be fair and reasonable to direct DAS to defend the cost application for this
claim when it was largely Mr Ms own actions that led to him being served with  it.
DAS should not have covered any of Mr Ms subsequent claims (which they
acknowledged in their  final response). If they had declined to indemnify Claim 17 and
19 as they said they should have done from the outset, Mr M would not now be
facing cost applications for these claims. Even though these claims may have been
vexatious I said that DAS had failed in their responsibility to stop them despite
knowing of the risk of adverse costs been sought. So although Mr M may have been
unreasonable in his pursuit of them, he was ultimately facilitated by DASs  funding.
Therefore, I said DAS should settle,  defend (or pay for the defence of) the costs
orders  being  applied  for against  Mr M for Claims  17 and 19  but not for Claim  15.
I also said I intended awarding £ 850 compensation as I thought it likely that DAS had
exacerbated Mr Ms mental health condition, but I was not persuaded on the
evidence presented that it was the sole operative  cause.
I invited further comments from both parties before issuing my final d ecision. DAS 
responded and said:  
The crux of the £160,000 in costs claimed by the respondent centres around
dishonesty and fraud, so if a settlement cant be agreed they reserve their right to
review their position if costs are  awarded.
DRN-2241550 They have instructed Firm I (solicitors) to negotiate a settlement with the respondent. 
An offer has been put forward, which they are close to agreeing with the respondent. 
But if it is agreed, it will require Mr Ms full  co-operatio n. 
 They reiterated their stance that they did not consider it fair and reasonable that they 
should have to fund the defence of the cost applications for Claims 17 and 19  as 
Mr M recklessly chose to continue with the claims and also contributed to the 
depletio n of the indemnity with his behaviour. The insurer was also relying on the 
advice of their appointed solicitors which was why they funded the action.  
 Both Firm E (solicitors) and Mr M failed to notify DAS in either March or April 2019 
that Claim 19 did n ot enjoy reasonable prospects of success, which would have 
resulted in the withdrawal of funding and discontinuance of the claim. The vast 
majority of costs were incurred after this point so, but for the failure to inform the 
insurer of the claims positio n, they would not have continued to fund it and now be 
facing an additional application for  costs.  
 
Mr M also responded. He disagreed with my second provisional decision and made a 
significant number of further submissions concerning:  
 
 DASs handling of Claim 15 and their decision to withdraw (and failure to reinstate) 
funding  as well as their failure to seek a further prospects assessment from 
counsel.  
 The fact that a large proportion of costs being claimed were incurred by the 
respondent while he wa s represented by Firm K (solicitors) and funded by DAS. 
Mr M also considers that they should be responsible for costs after they withdrew 
funding as he says the claim subsequently had positive prospects issued by his 
solicitor.  
 There was no offer or drop -hands settlement made by the respondent for Claim 15; 
there was only a costs warning  letter.  
 The level of compensation awarded is not proportionate to the harm caused by DAS 
to his mental health, and also does not recognise the other losses he has incur red 
(such as psychiatrist bills and loss of  earnings).  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats f air and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Mr M has made substantial further submissions regarding DASs handling of Claim 15, as 
well as their decision to withdraw funding, and failure to reinstate it when his solicitors 
considered there to be positive prospects of success. He says they were negligent in their 
handling of his claim and ought to have provided cover  such that they should be held liable 
for the cost application that has been served as a result of this claim.  
 
However, as I set out in my first (and second) provisional decision, Im unable to consider 
DASs handling of Claim 15, and whether they were right to withdraw funding, as this forms 
part of Mr Ms earlier complaints that are time -barred under our rules. DAS issued fina l 
responses covering these issues on 24 May 2017 and 22 October 2018  and Mr M did not 
refer these complaints to our service within six months of the final responses being issued.  
 
So I will not be commenting any further on whether DAS were negligent in t heir handling of 
Claim 15, as the complaint that is the focus of this final decision can only concern whether it 
is fair and reasonable to hold them responsible for the ongoing costs in defending the 
various cost applications being made against Mr M.  
 
Mr M  says it is not correct that he rejected a drop -hands settlement offer from the  respondent that could have avoided the cost application for Claim 15. But I can see that the 
respondent sent a letter on 23 March 2016 stating:  
[the respondent] will defend the claim robustly to its conclusion, whenever that is, 
and then seek costs from your client.  
Should your client want to avoid this, our clients will only consider this: that 
your client withdraws his claim against all Respond ent [sic] by 5pm on 7 April 
2016, in return for which our clients will make no application for costs . [My 
emphasis added].  
I appreciate that Mr M may not consider this a settlement, because it did not offer him a 
monetary sum. But that does not mean its  not a settlement offer. In this instance, the 
respondent was offering to cover their own costs (rather than seeking them from Mr M) if he 
withdrew his claim which, in my opinion, still constitutes a settlement offer.  
DAS withdrew their funding for Mr Ms  claim shortly after this letter on 12 April 2016, when 
counsel advised that the claim did not have positive prospects. Firm K emailed Mr M on 27 
April 2016 stating that funding had been withdrawn, but that they would be willing to continue 
to represent hi m if he wished to pursue the claim privately. However, the solicitors also said:  
 
 
 
 
So Mr M was professionally warned that the respondent might pursue him for all costs if he 
continued, had funding withdrawn by DAS for the cl aim lacking prospects, and was also 
advised by his solicitor that he would be unlikely to see a return on any further legal fees 
expended. Yet despite all of these circumstances, Mr M continued to pursue the claim 
without DASs backing  thereby causing th e respondent to incur further costs until it was 
subsequently withdrawn in November 2016  which is why I do not think it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold them responsible for such costs. I appreciate Firm K later told Mr M there 
may be prospects of su ccess, which may have been the primary reason for him continuing to 
pursue the claim. But I cannot hold DAS responsible for the acts or advice of the solicitors, 
particularly when the insurer had already discontinued cover for the claim.  
Mr M says that a large proportion of the respondents costs for Claim 15 were incurred 
before 12 April 2016 when DAS withdrew funding. That may be so, but the fact still remains 
that the respondent offered to refrain from seeking these costs from Mr M if he withdrew his 
claim. That was the consideration offered in return for settling out of court. So it seems 
there was an opportunity to avoid being served with the costs incurred before DAS withdrew 
funding, which was ultimately refused by Mr K and then actively pursued after funding was 
withdrawn.  
I therefore maintain my conclusion, as set out in my second provisional decision, that DAS 
cannot fairly be held liable for defending the cost application for Claim 15.  
Mr M also does not agree that £850 represents fair compensation for the health issues he 
says DAS have caused him. I appreciate this would have been an extremely stressful time 
for Mr M, and in no way were my comments in my provisional decision intended to cause 
upset. It is simply that I had not seen persuasive evidence to conclude, on bal ance, that DAS 
had been the sole operative cause of his decline in health, and that it seemed likely there 
were other factors that would have also contributed to the stress he was under due to the 
litigation itself. And it was because of this that I didnt  think compensation should  be disproportionate, or that consequential losses could be awarded either.  
 
Ive reviewed all of Mr Ms latest comments and have taken his submissions into account. 
But this has not changed the reasoning set out previously in my provisional decision, nor my 
conclusion that I consider £850 to be fair compensation in the circumstances  on the basis 
that DAS can at least be said to have contributed to Mr Ms decline in mental health. So I will 
not be awarding an y further compensation.  
 
In their response to my provisional decision, DAS have repeated their position that it was  
Mr M who recklessly chose to continue with Claims 17 and 19  and who also contributed to 
the depletion of the indemnity with his behaviour . But as I set out in my provisional decision, 
it was DASs decision to fund this legal action that facilitated Mr Ms behaviour and enabled 
him to issue the claims in the first place. I appreciate that counsel may have initially inferred 
that Claim 19 did  not have positive prospects, but further clarification had to be sought  on 
this, and the position on prospects had not been confirmed at the point the claim was issued. 
It was not until 4 April 2019 that counsel advised there were negative prospects, by w hich 
point the claim had already been issued and costs incurred by the respondent  which 
otherwise would not have been incurred if they had not agreed to fund Claim 19 in the first 
place.  
 
DAS say that both Firm E and Mr M failed to notify them in either March or April 2019 that 
Claim 19 did not enjoy prospects, which would have resulted in the withdrawal of funding 
and discontinuance of the claim at that point had they been informed. But it seems this is 
largely due to DAS not keeping close enough supervi sion of the claim, which they should 
have been more proactive in monitoring and seeking regular updates for, particularly given 
Mr Ms vulnerabilities and previous claim history. So I do not consider this to absolve DAS of 
liability to cover the costs of C laim 19.  
 
DAS said in their final response of 2019:  
 
I do not consider this claim should have been deemed an insured event in the first 
instance...  
 
Your claim does not relate to your employment contract; it is a claim for post - 
employment victimisation and by definition does not pertain to a contact [sic] of 
employment.  
 
However, I do find the error was ours in agreeing cover in the first instance and  
we are therefore partly responsible for some of the costs you are now seeking 
to defend [My emphasis added].  
 
So, as Ive set out previously, DAS have previously conceded that they should not have 
granted cover for Claims 17 and 19 in the first place, a nd that this error was theirs. And for 
the reasons I have already explained, I do not consider there to be any substantially 
mitigating factors present that would mean they ought not be held responsible for defending 
the cost applications stemming from the se claims and their original error.  
 
DAS have said that Firm I are close to agreein g a settlement with the respondent that would 
result in all cost applications being withdrawn, but that this will require Mr Ms co -operation 
and agreement. This service is unable to compel or direct Mr M (as the complainant) to 
follow any particular cours e of action. However, he will obviously need to think carefully, and 
possibly take independent advice, before doing anything which might jeopardise settlement 
or expose himself to personal liability. Ultimately, it may end up being within his gift to take 
action that should result in all cost applications being dropped. If negotiations fail, Mr M will 
probably  end up responsible  for funding  his own defence  of the cost application  for Claim  15, as this does not form part of the scope of the award being made in this decision. But it will 
ultimately be up to Mr M to decide whether he wants to co -operate with the requirements of 
the settlement or proceed to the cost hearing to defend the applications.  
In summary, having considered the furth er submissions of both parties, Im satisfied that the 
outcome reached in my second provisional decision is fair and reasonable, and Ive seen no 
further persuasive evidence or arguments to suggest I ought to depart from the conclusions 
previously drawn.  
My final decision  
For the reasons given above  as well as in the attached provisional decision  I uphold this 
complaint in part and direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to:  
Settle, defend (or pay for the defence of) the costs orders being applied for against
Mr M for Claims 17 and 19 up to the maximum award limit this service can m ake
given the timings of the disputed events and complaint referral (DISP 3.7.4R);  and
Pay £850 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by
DASs handling of his  claims.
Mr M should note that if he accepts my decision, it wi ll be legally binding on all parties and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. This is as a result of the legal doctrines of merger and/or res judicata , i.e. you 
cant take action more than onc e over the same issues, not even via different tribunals: Clark 
v In Focus Asset Management & Tax Solutions Limited [2014] EWCA Civ 118. If, however, 
Mr M rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain intact, the decision will not be 
binding so itll purely be a matter between him and DAS as to whether they choose to defend 
the cost orders and pay the  compensation.  
For the avoidance of doubt, if Mr M accepts my decision, it will only bind him and DAS to the 
issues I have decided here and now,  not to those that I have been unable to decide yet for 
want of information on causation and/or loss that wont be available until the conclusion of 
the costs proceedings. It has been necessary for me to proceed this way in order to give 
both parties the b est chance to mitigate their respective losses, i.e. by allowing DAS to try to 
negotiate first but, failing that, directing it to fund  as compensation for wrongdoing  the 
defence of the respondents wasted costs application  
Under the rules of the Finan cial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.  
Jack Ferris  
Ombudsman   
 
 
 
 
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION  
 
complaint  
 
Mr M complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have mishandled his 
claim for legal expenses, which has left him exposed to significant cost orders.  
 
What happened  
 
Mr M holds a legal expenses policy with DAS. He first made a claim  in February 2016 for assistance 
in pursuing an employment -related dispute. His dispute against his employer ultimately resulted in 
several claims being accepted by DAS between 2016 and 2019:  
 
Claim # Issued Level of 
indemnity (LOI)  Cause of action  
Claim 15  14/02/2016  £50,000  Unfair dismissal/race discrimination after being 
dismissed for alleged fraud/theft committed against 
his employer.  
Claim 17  19/04/2017  £50,000  Post-employment victimisation resulting from his 
past employer filing a report with CIFAS after Claim 
15 was  withdrawn.  
Claim 19a  11/01/2019  £50,000*  
 
 
*indemnity later 
withdrawn  Race discrimination resulting from the employer 
sharing information with Mr Ms professional body 
and actively chasing the police for a prosecution.  
Claim 19b  5/06/2019  £15,000  Defending the cost orders made against him as a 
result of withdrawing Claim 19 a. 
 
The background to Mr Ms dispute with DAS is both lengthy and complex. It has spanned several 
complaints over several years  a brief timeline of which I h ave set out below for context. When I refer 
to a Firm, I am referring to a firm of solicitors.  
 
Date  Event  
14/01/2016  Claim 15 submitted and indemnity agreed by DAS; Firm K appointed on 3 February 
2016.  
12/04/2016  Counsel advise no reasonable prospects of success for Claim 15, DAS cease to 
provide cover, leading to it being subsequently withdrawn from the Employment 
Tribunal on 30 November 2016.  
19/04/2017  Claim 17 issued and separate level of indemnity agreed by D AS  Firm E appointed 
on 9 May 2017 to pursue claim and defend cost order made against Mr M for Claim 
15. 24/05/2017  DAS issue final response to Mr Ms complaint about their handling of his claim, data 
request delays, and a potential conflict of interest with another insurer;  
£500 compensation paid.  
22/10/2018  DAS issue final response to Mr Ms complaint about their han dling of Claim 15 and 
defending the cost order for this claim, they also respond to his complaint about 
obstructing the preparation of his points of dispute.  
19/02/2019  Claim 19 issued and separate level of indemnity agreed by DAS; Firm E appointed 
at a r ate of £100 per hour.  
26/02/2019  Mr M billed for £2,800 by Firm E as they said the LOI for  Claims 15 and 17 had been 
exhausted; Mr M given until end of the day to pay otherwise Firm E say they will 
cease representing him; DAS confirm to Mr M that current terms restrict solicitors 
fees to £100 per hour.  
27/02/2019  Firm E ask DAS for confirmati on that the rate they have been charging is not a 
mistake, and explain that they will stop acting for Mr M if the issue cannot be 
resolved.  
28/02/2019  DAS confirm to Firm E that the hourly rate agreed for Claims 15 and 17 was  
£175 per hour.  
1/04/2019  Firm E stop acting for Mr M after dispute over fees and instructions.  
2/04/2019  DAS say they are not in a position to respond fully to the matters Mr M ha d raised.  
03/04/2019  Mr M tells DAS he has a claim for costs being made against him and needs to make 
a decision on the future of his cases, otherwise he could be facing a further cost 
order.  
30/04/2019  Mr M wit hdraws Claims 17 and 19 from the employment tribunal as he has no legal 
representation and cannot postpone the tribunal hearing.  
5/06/2019  DAS issue final response to Mr Ms complaint about solicitors fees, saying that they 
had not agreed an hourly rate o f £175 with Firm E for the duration of either Claim 15 
or 17; £175 was agreed for 20 hours only in March 2017, but Firm E were under the 
mistaken impression that DAS would pay £175 for the duration of the claim, and 
there is no record of them agreeing to p ay any higher than the usual £100 rate for 
Claim 17; DAS confirm there would be around 27% of the indemnity remaining if 
Firm E were acting for £100 per hour.  
5/06/2019  Mr M contacts DAS to advise that he had to withdraw Claims 17 and 19 and has 
since received a costs application (for £89,000 and £68,000 respectively) from his 
employer as a result; Mr M says he has fallen out with Firm E and requests 
cover/legal represent ation to defend the cost order being made against him.  
21/06/2019  DAS appoint Firm M to defend the cost order.  
9/07/2019  DAS withdraws cover for Claim 19a as they say Mr M had b reached their policy 
terms not to settle without their consent; DAS later clarify that Firm Ms remit was 
only to look at prospects of defending the cost order as Claim 19a had been set up 
in error  as it was linked to claims 15 and 17  meaning that any fees relating to the 
cost orders from those claims would have to come from their own respective 
indemnity  limits;  DAS say that Claim  19 therefore  does  not have  its own fresh  limit of 
indemnity.  
23/07/2019  Firm M explain that cover cannot be split as there is going to be one hearing for all  
cost applications  making it impossible for counsel to defend one cost application  but not the other.  
28/08/2019  DAS issue their final response to Mr M, saying it would not be fair for them to now 
withdraw cover as his breach of their terms (by withdrawing his claim) did not 
prejudice their position; DAS accept it was their error having agreed to cover, but 
say that Claim 15 and 17 cost orders are not covered by Claim 19 indemnity, but 
that if any amount remains from these previous claims, it can be used to defend the 
cost orders from those claims. In terms of the cost order from Claim 19a, DAS agree 
to defend these c osts with a new indemnity (Claim 19b) set at a provisional limit  of 
£15,000.  
Mr M has made a substantial number of submissions which, for the sake of brevity, I will not repeat 
again here. But I would like to reassure him that I have considered all of t he statements and evidence 
that he has provided. In essence, he complains that DASs handling of his claims has left him 
exposed to costs orders in the region of £150,000, which he either wants them to indemnify to defend, 
or else pay the costs if he is or dered to pay them. He also says that DAS should pay him significant 
compensation due to the detrimental impact their handling has had on his mental  health.  
DAS say there may be around £19,000 remaining of Mr Ms LOI for Claims 15 and 17 which, if it 
remai ns, he can use to defend those costs orders. However, despite confirming in February 2019 that 
Claim 19a was covered, DAS now say they should never have deemed it an insured event in the first 
place given that Mr Ms claim was a post -employment dispute, an d because it was directly linked to 
Claims 15 and 17. They accepted part responsibility for some of the costs Mr M was seeking to 
defend and, as a result, offered a further £15,000 to defend the costs orders (Claim 19b) if no LOI 
remained from Claims 15 an d 17. However, they did not agree to issue a further full £50,000 pot of 
indemnity for this given that it was linked to Mr Ms previous claims.  
Mr M submits that he should be offered the full LOI for Claim 19b and, if unsuccessful, says 
that DAS should be held responsible for paying the costs orders.  
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She accepted that Mr M would not have pursued 
Claim 19a if  it were not for DAS erroneously telling him it was covered. She considered it 
would be fair and reasonable for them to offer the full £50,000 LOI originally available for 
Claim 19a before DAS withdrew cover. DAS disagreed, so the matter was escalated to m e 
to determine.  
I issued my first provisional decision on this complaint on 21 July 2020. I said I intended to 
uphold it and set out the below provisional findings:  
Jurisdiction  
Mr Ms dispute with DAS stems from events originating in 2016, and there ha ve been at least 
four separate final responses issued in response to different complaints he has made. But it 
was not until September 2019 that Mr M referred his complaint to this service. As a result, 
there are certain aspects of this complaint that I can not consider, as they have been referred 
out of time:  
Final response issued  Points of complaint  Referred within 
6 months?  
24 May 2017  DASs handling of Mr Ms claim; decision to withdraw 
cover for Claim 15; delays; handling of data request; 
potential conflict of interest with another insurance 
group.  No 22 October 2018  DASs handling of Claim 15 and defence of the cost 
order for this claim; obstructing the preparation of 
his points of dispute; delays in progressing the 
claim.  No 
5 June 2019  Fee agreement for Firm E and indemnity limit 
remaining.  Yes 
28 August 2019  DAS s refusal to provide full indemnity to defend cost 
actions/cover cost orders.  Yes 
DAS told Mr M in each of its final response letters that he had six months in which to refer his 
complaint to this service, otherwise they would not consent to us looking at it. So, given that he did 
not refer his complaint to this service until September 2019, I cannot consider any of his points of 
complaint (or DASs response to those points) in relation to the final responses issued in May 2017 
and October 2018  as they have been referred out of time and there is no evidence of exceptional 
circumstances  for the delay (see DISP 2.8 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets 
out our time limit rules).  
However, I can consider Mr Ms points of complaint dealt with in DASs final response letters of June 
and August 2019 which, it appears to me, comes down to the simple question of whether DAS has 
done anything wrong and, if so, what can they fairly be held liable for (whether on a contractual basis 
or in common law).  
Having considered all the evidence, I have identified at least two key failings  which I consider DAS 
ought to make reparations for.  
Rate agreed with the solicitor (Firm E)  
As Ive set out in the timeline of events, Firm E were under the fal se impression that the indemnity for 
Claims 15 and 17 had been exhausted, as they had calculated their fees on the basis they were being 
paid at a rate of £175 per hour by DAS.  
Firm E held this belief because they contacted DAS via email on 27 February 2019 asking for 
confirmation of the rate that had been agreed at the outset, as they said someone from DAS had told 
Mr M that £175 per hour was a mistake. The insurer responded the  next day confirming that the 
agreed rate for Claims 15 and 17 was £175 per hour  which led to Firm E billing Mr M directly for the 
costs incurred over and above his indemnity limit, which ultimately led to a breakdown in his 
relationship with the solicit ors and him being unrepresented from 1 April 2019.  
However, despite DAS telling Firm E that the agreed rate was £175 per hour, they wrote to Mr M on 5 
June 2019 explaining that this was a mistake:  
The reason I do not uphold your complaint is because we have not agreed an hourly rate of £175 per 
hour with your solicitors for the duration of either [Claim 15 or 17]. On 02/03/17 a Claims Handler 
spoke to [solicitor from Firm E] and it was agreed, owing to your impending hearing, we would pay a 
higher hourly  rate of £175 for approximately 20 hours only.  
It does appear that [Firm E] were then under the mistaken impression that we would pay them  
£175 for the duration of [Claim 15]. You are correct to state this would reduce your indemnity as this is 
significa ntly higher than the £100 hourly rate states in your policy wording. I also cannot see any 
record regarding [Claim 17] that we have agreed to pay above our usual £100 per hour rate with Firm 
E. 
DAS said in their final response that around 27% of Mr Ms i ndemnity would be remaining if Firm E 
had charged at £100 per hour as they should have. But it appears the only reason the solicitors  thought the indemnity had been exhausted, was because DAS had specifically confirmed an incorrect 
rate of £175 per hour for Claims 15 and 17. If they had told Firm E in February 2019 what they had 
told Mr M in their final response, there would have been no reason for them to bill Mr M directly for 
costs on the false pretence that the indemnity had been ex hausted. This wouldve then likely avoided 
any confrontation between Mr M and Firm E, such that they wouldnt have threatened to cease 
representing him.  
And it was because Mr M was left with no representation right before the tribunal hearing that he felt  
compelled to withdraw Claims 17 and 19a  action which has subsequently led to him being served 
with cost orders for all claims.  
Despite conceding that they had not agreed to a rate of £175, DAS  have since told this service that 
they did agree to pay this rate from the outset. But they have not provided any evidence of this, apart 
from the confirmation email they sent on 28 February 2019  which they later said was a mistake. The 
new claim notifi cation paperwork sent to Firm E for Claim 17, for example, did not mention any 
specifically agreed rate, and only referred to DASs terms of appointment. But even if DAS did agree 
this rate from the outset  which is unproven based on the evidence theyve produced  it seems they 
have not been clear with either party, and have given misleading information as to what the rate was, 
which still ultimately led to Firm E refusing to act for Mr M due to the dispute over payment.  
Firm E stopped acting for Mr M on  1 April 2019, of which they made DAS aware by email. However, 
DAS say they didnt hear from Mr M until 5 June 2019, by which point he had already withdrawn 
Claims 17 and 19a. But I do not accept this, as I can see email correspondence sent from Mr M to 
DAS on 4 April 2019, telling them that he has a potential cost claim being made against him, and that 
a decision had to be made on the future of his cases, otherwise he could be facing a further cost 
order. He also mentioned needing legal representation agai n. But DAS did not act on this information  
despite time being of the essence  apart from issuing a holding response saying they were not in a
position to respond. It was then not until 5 June 2019 that DAS responded saying they will appoint
another law firm (Firm M)  by which point it was too late, as the claims had already been withdrawn.
So, in short, if DAS had been clear from the outset with both parties as to what the agreed rate was, it 
wouldve  likely  avoided  Mr M having  to withdraw  Claims  17 and 19a from the employment  tribunal,  and 
wouldve therefore likely have avoided the cost orders being made against him for withdrawing the 
claims. Moreover, if they had responded sooner to his request for legal representation after Firm E 
stopped acting for  him, his withdrawal of the claims couldve potentially been avoided. So, I do 
consider that DASs handling of this matter has ultimately led to the position Mr M is in  now.  
Incorrectly covering Mr Ms claims  
Even if I am wrong about the above, there is still the fact  as DAS has conceded  that they should 
never have covered Mr Ms claims in the first place.  
DAS have said that Claim 19a should never have been covered as a new claim, because it was not 
an insured event, and secondly, because it was link ed to Claims 15 and 17. Theyve also since said 
that Claim 17 ought never to have been covered either, because it was a post -employment 
victimisation claim which the policy does not cover.  
As such, if DAS had p roperly considered the claims being made and declined cover as they said they 
ought to have done, I believe that Mr M would never have embarked on the legal action against his 
employer, for which he is now facing a significant amount in cost orders.  
Mr M has detailed his financial circumstances, and Im persuaded by his testimony that he would 
neither have had the means nor the resources to pursue the claims. So, but for DASs negligence in 
covering claims that were not insured events (and/or had no reason able prospects of success), Mr M 
would not now be having to defend the cost orders being made against him.  
Remedy  
In terms of the remedy sought, the dispute thus far has focused on whether DAS ought to provide the 
full indemnity of £50,000 for claim 19b.  However, this forms part of what Mr M would be contractually  entitled to under the policy if there were a valid claim with prospects of success  not what he is 
legally entitled to under common law, or what is fair and reasonable in a ll the circumstances. DAS 
should probably never have accepted or funded these claims in the first place, and their 
mistakes/negligence have left Mr M in the precarious position he is in now. Therefore, his rights do not 
flow from the policy terms and condi tions in this instance, but from his common law rights for breach 
of contract/statutory duty and/or  negligence.  
As a result, I consider it would be fair and reasonable for DAS to now defend these cost orders at 
their own expense  up to the maximum money award an ombudsman can make (see DISP 3.7.4 R 
of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook for the different limits)  irrespective of any indemnity 
cap in the policy. I also appreciate that there are separate cost orders for the different claims DAS has 
funded. But these claims are all clearly inextricably linked and, as I understand, are going to be 
considered at the same time in one hearing. So, it would not be feasible for DAS to instruct counsel to 
defend some costs but not  others.  
Therefore, the only reasonable course of action here is for DAS to defend them all holistically, rather 
than in accordance with separate pots of indemnity.  
Given that we do not know the quantum of costs Mr M may have to pay  if any at all  until the 
hearing has taken place , any award made in this respect would be purely speculative in nature. 
Therefore, I am not deciding at this point if Mr M is entitled to have DAS pay for any wasted costs he 
may potentially be ordered to pay by the tribunal, and intend to confine my final  decision to directing 
DAS to defend the cost application only  without prejudice to the cost order if Mr M subsequently 
suffers an uninsured loss.  
If DAS are successful in defending the costs application, there will then be no further loss to consider. 
But should they be unsuccessful, and later refuse to cover the cost orders under the policy terms, Mr 
M can then bring a further complaint to this ser vice, where I can then determine if it would be fair and 
reasonable for DAS to cover such costs in whole or in part, either under the terms and conditions of 
the policy or as compensation for reasonably foreseeable losses due to breach of contract, 
neglige nce, etc. Though I cannot guarantee this, I would endeavour to expedite any such complaint 
and reserve it to myself given my existing knowledge of the relevant facts and issues.  
Compensation  
Mr M submits that DAS should pay him a significant amount in co mpensation, as their handling of his 
claim has caused his mental health to deteriorate to the extent that he has been suicidal, cannot work, 
and needs to pay for a private psychiatrist.  
I am sorry to hear that Mr Ms mental health has suffered, and I appr eciate this has been a very 
difficult time for him. But I also note that he appears to have been suffering from poor mental health 
for some time now  to the extent that hearings had to be postponed in 2016, for example.  
Ive also seen no independent medi cal evidence to show that wrongful acts or omissions of DAS have 
been the direct cause of Mr Ms mental health issues. Nonetheless, I accept that their handling of his 
claims is likely to have caused a fair amount of distress and inconvenience, for which I  intend to make 
an award of £500.  
Responses to the first provisional decision  
I invited further submissions in response to my first provisional decision. DAS disagreed with my 
findings and, in summary, have said:  
Firm Es hourly rate and the remaining i ndemnity limit  
The absence of clarity surrounding Firm E s hourly rate was regrettable but not determinative of
why the two indemnity limits were exhausted for claims 15 and  17.DAS withdrew funding for Claim 15 as it had no prospects of success. Mr M continued with the
claim privately a nd refused a settlement that could have avoided a costs application being
made for this claim, so it was his own actions that led to  this.
Mr M contacted DAS on 2 February 2016  four weeks away from his costs hearing  which
meant the majority of their panel firms lacked the capacity to take on his claim, meaning they
were backed into a corner in terms of hourly rates, which led to the enhanced rate of £175
being agreed with Firm  E for the first 20 hours so they could prioritise the case and prepare for
the upcoming hearing. Firm E would have also been aware that Claim 15 already had a
depleted indemnity from the previous solicitors and would be less than  £50,000.
Firm E also f ailed to keep proper supervision of their spending, and even acknowledged a
breach of their own regulatory requirements to keep their client informed of costs. They are
also alleged to have used up some of the indemnity unnecessarily by making numerous
applications to the court to appeal the decision about making Mr Ms case subject to a deposit
order.
Mr Ms conduct within the legal proceedings led to an increase in associated legal costs by
calling Firm E too frequently and having lengthy discussions. But despite this, Firm E reassured
all parties that they were confident they could work within the indemnity they had left if Mr M
minimised his contact with  them.
Although there was conf usion caused in relation to the hourly rate agreed, this ultimately
caused no prejudice as Claim 15 was subsequently picked up by Firm I. And for Claim 17 
irrespective of whether the rate was £100 or £175  the indemnity would have always shortly
been ex hausted, meaning there was always going to be insufficient indemnity to run the case
to hearing. Therefore, Firm E would have always had to seek further costs directly from Mr M,
such that he would have always had to withdraw his case before it got to the  tribunal.
Reasons behind the cost applications  
In any event, it was not the act of withdrawing the claims that led to Mr M being served with the
various applications for costs orders. In respect of Claim 15, cover was rightly withdrawn as
counsel said there were no reasonable prospects of success. The costs application was only
made by the respondent because the case had no prospects, and because Mr M was alleged
to have acted unreasonably in respect of his conduct of the  proceedings.
For Claim 17, M r M had already been made the subject of a deposit order which renders a
successful claim in costs more likely, and this claim had also been the subject of an application
for strike  out.
For Claim 19, counsel indicated that the claim had poor prospects of success but it was issued
anyway by Mr M. And due to the vexatious nature of the claim, it would have always resulted in
a costs application being made from the respondent. Mr M was also alleged by the respondent
to have acted unreasonably (e.g. failure  to comply with disclosure obligations resulting in
further costs for the respondent; unreasonable quantification of losses; asking to postpone
hearings without sufficient evidence to substantiate his  reasons).
They have no record of Mr Ms email of 4 A pril 2019 asking for further representation. But in
any event, the LOI for Claim 17 had already been exhausted and Claim 19 had written advice
from counsel saying that it (and Claim 17) had less than 10% prospects. So if they had been
made aware of this at  the time, they would have withdrawn funding and not have approved any
further actions, but neither Mr M not Firm E sought to protect DASs position by withdrawing the
claims at this  point.
Incorrectly granting indemnity for Mr Ms claims  
Claim 15 always fell within scope of the policy terms and conditions  until counsel  deemedthat it didnt have reasonable prospects of success  at which point funding was withdrawn.  
 
 It is an arguable point as to whether the subsequent post -termination employment claims 
should have been covered under the policy wording as they would not have arisen but for the 
contract of employment. It therefore cannot be said they have been negligent  in opting to cover 
these claims.  
 
 Claim 19 had an indemnity granted to allow Mr M to explore whether the claim had prospects  
yet legal proceedings were still issued despite the clear advice from Firm E that to do so in the 
face of negative prospects a dvice from counsel would expose him to adverse costs  claims.  
 
 Mr M would have always pursued his legal claims with or without insurance  funding.  
 
Defending the costs applications  
 
 Whilst the costs applications for all claims are to be heard together, t he three applications are 
standalone and will need to be determined by reference to the specific facts of each  claim.  
 
 The respondent issued a combined bill for Claims 17 and 19, but a separate bill of costs has 
been served in relation to Claim 15. But given that this bill is fully itemised it can clearly be 
discerned as to which costs apply to which claim. It is not there fore a reasonable course of 
action for DAS to defend them all holistically rather than in accordance with the three separate 
LOIs, which should be kept separate and  distinct.  
 
Despite their submissions above, and in order to help Mr M bring these issues to  a close, DAS have  
after my first provisional decision  instructed Firm I to engage with the respondent to try and 
negotiate a settlement which, if agreed, will enable him to walk away from the costs applications  but 
this will be reliant on Mr Ms co -operation.  
 
Mr M also responded with several points for consideration. In summary, he said:  
 
 He had contacted DAS multiple times between 2 April 2019 and 1 May 2019 in respect of his 
situation  not just on 4 April  2019.  
 
 He wants explicit confirmation  that he did not breach the policy terms and conditions by virtue 
of Firm E refusing to represent him and withdrawing his claim without informing  DAS.  
 
 He is unhappy that DAS also asked Firm I to consider whether any of his conduct could be 
tantamount to a breach of the policy terms and  conditions.  
 
 He has further evidence to show that DAS did not agree a permanent rate of £175 per hour 
with Firm  E. 
 
 Further compensation should be awarded for the health issues caused by DAS, for which he 
has provided new medical  evidence.  
 
What Ive provisionally de cided  and why  
 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Since I issued my first provisional decision in July 2020, there have been a number of further detaile d 
submissions from both parties on various aspects of this complaint. As a result, I have reconsidered 
all submissions again in order to properly address the crux of this complaint  which centres around 
the costs applications now being made against Mr M, and the impact DASs handling of the claim has 
had on him.  
 
I will therefore deal with these two main issues substantively within this provisional decision  giving  both parties a further opportunity to put forwards any final comments in response.  
Turning first to some of the additional points raised by Mr M, he  says I have not made it explicitly clear 
whether he breached any of the policy terms and conditions. But I do not consider it necessary to 
make a finding on this point as it has no relevance to my reasoning that his complaint should be 
upheld. So I will n ot be making any further comments on this.  
Mr M is also unhappy that DAS asked Firm I to consider whether any of his conduct was tantamount 
to a breach of the policy terms and conditions. It is entirely normal for an insurer to ask their panel 
solicitors to advise on whether cover is available for a given claim  which includes advice on 
prospects of success as well as whether any other policy exclusions might apply. So I do not consider 
it unreasonable for DAS to have asked Firm I to advise on this, as th ey are entitled to test the claim 
against the policy terms and conditions before agreeing cover.  
Incorrectly indemnifying Mr Ms claims  
In terms of DASs further submissions, I acknowledge all of their points regarding the rate of pay; the 
indemnity limi t almost being exhausted; the real reasons behind the cost applications being brought 
against Mr M; and his conduct during the legal proceedings. DAS accept that they gave incorrect 
information to Firm E regarding the hourly rate  and I accept there are d ebatable points regarding the 
indemnity limit and whether it wouldve always been exhausted regardless of what rate was agreed. I 
also accept that there could be various reasons why the respondent is now seeking costs orders  
rather than it being solely d own to the fact of Mr M withdrawing his claims when he did. However, 
given that the respondent in Mr Ms legal proceedings are not a party to this complaint, it is not 
possible to verify what the true reason is, and whether the applications would have been  brought 
irrespective of Mr M withdrawing his claims.  
But even I were to accept DASs submissions in respect of the above points, I am still of the opinion 
that they are liable to cover the expenses of defending the costs applications  albeit on a differ ent 
basis from that set out in my first provisional decision in light of their further submissions.  
In my first provisional decision, I considered that DAS should be held liable for defending the costs 
applications for each of his claims because they had said themselves that Mr Ms claims should never 
have been covered in the first place. They said, for example, that Claim 17 should not have been 
covered as it was a case of post -employment victimisation, which the policy does not cover.  
However, I now acc ept that this rationale does not apply to Claim 15, which DAS say was correctly 
covered in the first instance as it concerned matters that occurred while Mr M was employed. Firm K 
were appointed in February 2016 to take the claim forwards, but DAS subseque ntly withdrew funding 
in April 2016 after counsel reported that the claim had negative prospects of success  action that a 
legal expenses insurer is normally contractually entitled to take even after granting the indemnity, 
appointing solicitors, etc. But  despite the indemnity being withdrawn and negative prospects being 
reported, DAS say that Mr M constinued with his claim privately and refused a drop -hands settlement 
offer  which could have prevented the application for costs  but subsequently withdrew  the claim 
anyway in November 2016.  
I cannot consider if DASs decision to withdraw funding for Claim 15 was fair, as this forms part of Mr 
Ms earlier complaint to DAS that is time -barred under our rules. But I can consider whether they can 
be held respo nsible for the ongoing costs in defending the application, as this forms part of Mr Ms 
recent complaint that we can consider. And based on the evidence and arguments I have seen, I 
accept that DAS cannot fairly be held liable for Mr M being served with th e costs application for Claim 
15 given that it was largely his own actions that led to this. DAS have also demonstrated that the 
three claims for costs are not inextricably linked because although they are to be heard together, a 
separate bill of costs has  been served in relation to Claim 15, which is fully itemised such that it can 
be separated from those costs that apply to Claims 17 and 19. As a result, I no longer intend asking 
them to cover the expenses of defending the cost application for Claim 15.  
I am still of the opinion, however, that DAS should not have covered any of Mr Ms subsequent claims 
and, if they had declined to indemnify Claims 17 and 19 as they said they should have done from the 
outset, he would not now be facing costs applications for these claims.  DAS say it is an arguable point as to whether the remaining claims should have been covered, as 
post-employment claims could be covered under the policy terms and conditions. This is despite them 
previously telling Mr  M that there was no cover available for such claims and conceding that they 
should never have been covered in the first place. In their most recent submissions, DAS have also 
said that one of the main reasons the respondent is now claiming costs is becaus e neither of Mr Ms 
claims had reasonable prospects of success. In their own words, it was vexatious legal action.  
This firstly begs the question as to why Claims 17 and 19 were granted an indemnity in the first place  
particularly after DAS had alread y withdrawn funding for Claim 15 due to it having a lack of
prospects. So when Mr M approached DAS again in 2017 asking for a further indemnity to pursue the
same respondent (after already being made the subject of a costs application for the first claim) they
should not have agreed to it. And by their own admission, DAS have said that they were wrong to
indemnify Mr Ms subsequent  claims.
DAS have said that the reason Mr M is now facing adverse costs is primarily down to him pursuing 
futile legal action, and the fact that they were not kept adequately informed of matters by their panel 
solicitors. But Mr M did not issue Claims 17 and 19 on his own. It may well have been actioned by the 
panel solicitors, but it was DAS that appointed them and agreed to inde mnify the claims in the first 
place  thereby enabling him to pursue what they have termed vexatious legal action  for which he 
is now facing cost orders.  
DAS say that Mr M would have embarked on these legal claims anyway, which they say is evident 
from him electing to proceed with action despite the threat of adverse costs orders. I appreciate that 
Mr M may have been reckless in choosing to continue to pursue either of his claims after receiving 
such warnings. But that is not to say that he would have  embarked on either of his claims at all if they 
had been declined from the outset as they should have been.  
Im also persuaded by Mr M when he says he would not have pursued either of his claims if it had not 
been for DAS appointing panel solicitors and funding them in the first place. By doing so, they 
enabled him to carry on litigating ultimately to his detriment. It is both the duty of the insurer and the 
solicitor as professionals to stop such behaviour so far as reasonably possible and not to fund 
vexatious litigation that could result in adverse costs (and/or costs to the public purse, as courts and 
tribunals have overheads that arent covered by court fees). And although Mr M may well have been 
unreasonable in his pursuit of such claims, he was ulti mately facilitated by DASs funding  such that 
he would not now be in the precarious position he is now with adverse costs if they had not funded 
Claims 17 and 19.  
Therefore, I still consider it fair and reasonable to hold DAS liable for defending the costs applications 
for these claims  up to the maximum award limit set by this service. Mr M referred his complaint to 
this service in September 2019. However, the dat e of DASs acts or omissions (i.e. waiving its strict 
legal rights to decline/withdraw cover) occurred before 1 April 2019. Therefore, the maximum award 
under our rules for this complaint is £160,000.  
DAS say they first want to try and negotiate a settlem ent with the respondent to avoid a costs hearing 
altogether. I think this is a reasonable course of action to take, and one which may avoid further legal 
expenses being incurred on hearing preparation, instructing counsel, etc. Should they be unable to 
reach a settlement, however, then DAS will need to cover the costs of defending the costs 
applications for Claims 17 and 19 through to hearing.  
Compensation  
Mr M submits that he is due further compensation due to the distress, inconvenience and health 
issue s caused by DASs handling of his claim. He says that in the past ten years he has gone from 
being able to self -manage his mental health conditions to now being severely ill, which has resulted in 
him having to resign from his previous job and also attempt ing suicide.  
I do not doubt the severity of Mr Ms mental health conditions, and the extent to which they have 
deteriorated over the past few years. And I can see from the medical evidence he has recently 
provided that this is, in part, due to his belief that DAS has been mishandling his claim. But I do not  consider the medical evidence Mr M has provided to be persuasive proof that DAS is solely 
responsible for the deterioration in his mental health. And I have to take into account tha t litigation in 
and of itself is inherently stressful and uncertain  and that Mr M is ultimately only in this position 
because he kept on litigating against independent professional advice.  
So, on the basis of the evidence before me, Im not persuaded th at the sole operative cause of Mr Ms 
mental health issues was the mishandling of his claim as opposed to the strains inherent in litigation 
and financial complaints  so I do not think compensation should be disproportionate.  
However, the psychiatrist re port submitted by Mr M states that he continues to be very unwell due to 
the nature of the position he continues to find himself in with the Employment Courts due to, in his 
opinion, substantial faults and deplorable treatment from his legal insurerI con sider his condition is 
worsening due to his belief that the insurer is handling his file so inappropriately. So, I am satisfied 
from the new evidence provided that DAS have at least exacerbated Mr Ms mental health conditions 
such that further compensation  is warranted. So I intend to award compensation of £850 for distress 
and inconvenience  rather than the £500 initially proposed in my first provisional decision  as I 
consider this to be a fair and proportionate amount in the circumstances.  
My second provisional decision  
For the reasons given above, I am currently minded to uphold this complaint and intend directing DAS 
Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to:  
Settle, defend (or pay for the defence of) the costs orders being applied f or against Mr M for
Claims 17 and 19 up to the maximum award limit this service can make given the timings of
the disputed events and complaint referral (DISP 3.7.4R);  and
Pay £850 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by DASs
handling of his  claims.
For the avoidance of doubt, if Mr M accepts my decision, it will only bind him and DAS to the issues I 
have decided here and now, not to those that I have been unable to decide yet for want of information 
on causation and/or loss that wont be available unt il the conclusion of the costs proceedings. It has 
been necessary for me to proceed this way in order to give both parties the best chance to mitigate 
their respective losses, i.e. by allowing DAS to try to negotiate first but, failing that, directing it t o fund  
as compensation for wrongdoing  the defence of the respondents wasted costs  application.
Jack Ferris  
Ombudsman  