DRN-1567717
The complaint
Mr G complains that UK Insurance Limited declined his pet insurance claim 
What happened
Mr G submitted a claim for surgery for his dog which took place in June 2019. The claim was 
for a condition that affected the dogs right hind leg. UKI declined the claim. Mr G 
complained about UKIs decision; since UKI had previously paid his claim for the same 
condition on the dogs left hind leg in January 2019. 
The condition was first presented at the vets in April 2018 in the right hind leg. The diagnosis 
came in October 2018 following an x-ray and it was the left hind leg that was affected. At that 
stage it was agreed with the vet that since the dog was a small breed they would try 
conservative treatment to begin with. The notes confirm that if there was not any 
improvement to the lameness then surgery would be required. On 30 October 2018 the vet 
submitted their bill for £706.69 to investigate the lameness and dated the invoice 19/04/2018 
 29/10/2018. 
Unfortunately the conservative treatment did not work. So in January 2019 the dog 
underwent surgery on her left hind leg. At the end of January the vet submitted their invoice 
for the surgery and this was settled by the insurer. 
The surgery to the right leg was carried out in June 2019. The claim was submitted to UKI in 
July 2019 and this was declined by UKI. 
UKI explained that it had paid out for the condition leading to surgery to the left hind leg 
between 19 April 2018 and 18 April 2019 paying £3,416.02. The dog had further surgery to 
the right leg in June 2019. UKI said that this was linked to the earlier surgery by the bi-lateral 
term and condition; and this was outside the 12-month period of cover and so the policy did 
not provide cover for the further surgery. UKI also said that the condition affecting both legs 
was identified at the same time. 
Mr G was unhappy with UKIs response and asked us to look into things. One of our 
investigators did so but having reviewed all the information felt that UKI had declined the 
claim fairly and in line with its policy terms. Mr G didnt agree with this. He felt that he had 
tried to be a responsible pet owner and only put his dog through further surgery when it was 
absolutely necessary and had tried other steps to avoid surgery in the first instance but now 
feels he is being penalised for doing that. The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain that I need to consider what the policy documents say about 
whether claims would be paid in this situation. And if Im satisfied that the terms say they 
wouldnt pay out, whether thats a fair and reasonable approach to take. 
Mr Gs policy is the Essential policy which provides up to £4,000 or 12 months (whichever is 
reached first) for each separate condition from the date that vet fees were first charged for 
treatment for that condition 
I have checked the vets notes. These show that the condition leading to surgery was first 
noticed in April 2018 and the vet fees were first charged from 19/04/2018. This means that 
the 12-month period as per the policy begins on 19 April 2018 and ends 18 April 2019. In 
April 2019 the vet submitted a further invoice dated 05/03/2019  15/04/2019 for 
investigating lameness in the right leg. This was settled by the insurer UKI paid all invoices 
relating to the condition up to April 2019 in line with their policy. 
I have also looked for evidence of whether it was known that the right leg was likely to later 
become affected. Within the vets notes in March 2019 there is a note that says clinically 
doing ok but would benefit of (r) CW TPLO here too (option either in next few weeks or in 
October) I am satisfied that its the same condition diagnosed at the same time and 
therefore I think its reasonable for UKI to reject the claim for the surgery to the second leg
Mr G has said that he was trying to be a responsible pet owner and only put his dog through 
further surgery when it was absolutely necessary and had tried other steps to avoid surgery. 
I have also seen a letter from the vet supporting Mr Gs decision to delay surgery. I am 
sympathetic to the situation that he now finds himself in. But that doesnt mean that the 
terms of the insurance policy dont apply.  There was time for the dog to recover and the 
surgery to have happened within the 12-month limit So I think the business hasnt been 
unreasonable in its application of its terms and conditions. 
So taking everything into account I am satisfied that UKI acted fairly in not meeting the claim 
for the surgery to the second leg. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint against UK Insurance Limited 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman