DRN-3147342
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the 2021 motor renewal premium quote he received. The insurer 
of his policy is Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith). 
What happened
Mr C received his annual motor insurance policy renewal in July 2021. The premium quoted 
for annual motor insurance cover was £2,363.55. His premium the previous year was 
£776.88. 
Mr C says an error has been made with the premium calculation and he wants it corrected. 
Zenith answered Mr Cs complaint and advised that no errors have been made, and that Mr 
Cs renewal quote is correct. 
Mr C remains unsatisfied with this and he complained to our service. So, an investigator 
looked at the complaint. The investigator acknowledged the sudden rise in premium but said 
Zenith hadnt made any errors. The investigator said there was no evidence to suggest that 
Mr C had been treated differently to any other of Zeniths customers.
But Mr C doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C has insured his car for a number of years through a well-known business which Ill refer 
to as B. However, B sold its insurance arm to a new business and when Mr Cs renewal was 
due, it was provided by Zenith who are an underwriter with B. This practice isnt unusual, but 
I can understand why Mr C may have found this confusing.
Mr C has raised a number of issues with his renewal. He says:
Hes been a loyal customer with B for many years and he says that a 204% increase 
is unacceptable. Hes provided cheaper quotes from other insurers.
Mr C has questioned why B would ask a loyal customer to shop around. He says 
this implies they dont want his custom.
He says there are numerous errors on the statement of fact. He says personal and 
vehicle information are wrong and further to this, there are two fault claims listed 
which he says are not his fault. 
Mr C says his no claims discount is incorrect.
Mr C says that a driver of his age and experience, with the vehicle that he drives 
cannot seriously be considered high risk.
Mr C says these errors have restricted his access to obtaining another more 
reasonable policy, and as such he now cannot afford to drive. 
Mr Cs quote at renewal
All underwriters have different systems within which they underwrite their insurance policies. 
And each underwriter is allowed to rate whatever risks they deem to be appropriate as long 
as they keep within the regulatory parameters set by the Financial Conduct Authority. As an 
organisation we cant tell an underwriter what it can and cant rate its risk on. But we can 
make sure that all customers of that specific business are being treated fairly and that no 
errors are being made. Please note, the risk ratings that underwriters use are commercially 
sensitive to that specific business. So, we cant and wont be sharing any commercially 
sensitive information in this final decision. But I have reviewed everything provided and Ill be 
making my decision based on everything Ive seen.
In this specific case Zenith has told us that in the context of the policies that came over from 
B, the new owner of those policies didnt view Mr Cs car as an acceptable risk. Mr C says 
this needs to be challenged. But its not our role to challenge this. As I said above insurers 
are free to determine the risk they want to insure, and as long as its not discriminatory and 
within regulation its fine.  This is not Mr Cs fault either. Its simply a case of the new 
underwriter not wanting to insure the type of car Mr C has. And its an underwriters right to 
determine what vehicles it will and wont insure. Mr C has also queried why Zenith would 
consider him a high-risk, a driver with such experience who travels so few miles every year. 
But Zenith hasnt told us this was a problem. It seems that the car was the issue.
In order to find Mr C a new policy, B looked at its other underwriters to see if any of them 
could accommodate Mr Cs vehicle. As it happens, Zenith Insurance plc was open to 
accepting Mr Cs vehicle and provided the best annual premium. I appreciate that given the 
renewal offered, the price had increased substantially. But Zenith has advised that all the 
other underwriters declined Mr C, and the price given was the best one available from them. 
So, Im satisfied, even though the premium had increased substantially, no errors were 
made, and Zenith offered the best price it had available. 
Fault claims
Zenith say that alongside Mr Cs vehicle, the addition of the fault claim from April 2021 has 
had an impact. At renewal in July 2021 Mr C had two fault claims registered against his 
policy. One following a catalytic converter theft in 2018, and then a claim from an incident 
outside his house in 2021. Mr C says neither of these were his fault and wants to know why 
theyve been recorded as such.
A fault claim doesnt mean Mr C is at fault for what happened. A fault claim is an insurance 
term used to describe a type of claim where either the outlay cant be recovered from a third 
party, or theres potentially an outlay that may need to be paid out if liability is being 
disputed. In this case Mr Cs catalytic converter was stolen in 2018. And it was never 
recovered (as far as I know).  So, there was no way for the underwriter at the time to claim 
back what was paid out to Mr C. So, this is deemed to be a fault claim. 
In relation to the 2021 incident, a claim was started by a third party against Mr C. I 
appreciate Mr C completely denies any involvement in this incident. And thats fine, he may 
not have been involved. But whilst the claim is open and being investigated its deemed 
worst-case scenario by the insurer, or fault. And it stays that way until its closed as either 
fault, non-fault, or notification only. Unfortunately, when Mr Cs renewal came around this 
claim was still being investigated and was still marked fault. This is correct, and the new 
premium should reflect this. If at a later stage the claim is revised downwards to non-fault or 
notification only, most insurers will recalculate the premium and issue a refund. In this specific case Zenith has now told us this claim has been investigated and has now closed as 
non-fault. So, this will be reflected as non-fault going forward. 
This will also have an effect on Mr Cs no claims discount. Please note a no claims discount 
is a discount that will apply if no claims are made, or if claims are made but the discount is 
protected. Mr Cs discount is not protected. So, the fact that he had two open fault claims at 
renewal in 2021 has had an impact on both his base premium, because he was deemed a 
higher risk, and on his no claims discount, as hes had two fault claims. Again, as with the 
base premium amendment I spoke about above, now that the 2021 incident is deemed non-
fault, this no claims discount has now been revisited. And Mr Cs no claims discount has 
reverted to what it was pre-April 2021. 
Errors on the statement of fact
Mr C says there are a number of errors on the statement of fact he received in July 2021. 
Dates of full licence, vehicle details etc are all incorrect. Zenith has told us that the system 
used by B from which this policy migrated did not have the same questions on it as its 
system does. So, when a policy came across, which didnt have answers to questions it 
required, it defaulted to specific dates or generic information. So, for example Mr C has had 
his drivers licence since 1969. But the statement of fact says 01/01/2006. It looks like 2006 
is Zeniths default year.
Looking at the statement of fact I can see that in bold writing, across the top of the page it 
says, If any of the following details appear incomplete or incorrect please contact B within 
seven days. It also says you will be advised of any changes in premium and a revised 
statement will be issued to you
Im not surprised there were errors in the statement of fact. When a policy migrates over its 
expected. Its up to Mr C to highlight these errors and correct them. So, I would suggest that 
if Mr C wishes to approach Zenith again for insurance, he should now ask Zenith to amend 
these errors.
Shopping around and cheaper quotes
Mr C has provided examples of cheaper quotes he received in July 2021. And I can see they 
are substantially cheaper. But I cant comment on these quotes as they are all from other 
underwriters and I have no access to how they were calculated, or what information Mr C 
provided. I do note however they are all very similar and are in line with what Mr C paid in 
2020. 
In relation to shopping around, I would also like to point out that both the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and the Financial Conduct Authority have done a lot of work with 
insurers to ensure quotes that consumers are receiving are clear, fair and transparent. As 
such insurers are now obliged to tell consumers that they may be able to get a better 
premium elsewhere. This is not a case of B not wanting Mr C as a customer. Its a case of 
them telling Mr C he might get a better deal elsewhere.
Also, in relation to migrating policies and trying to assist loyal customers, Zenith has told us 
that it usually puts in place a cap on its renewal premiums. So, if a consumers premium rises 
sharply usually due to a different rating system, the consumer doesnt receive a shock when 
they get their renewal. But Zenith has advised that because there was a recent fault claim on 
Mr Cs policy, the policy didnt qualify for this cap, and £2,363.55 was the best it could 
provide for Mr C. As always Mr C was free to shop around with other insurers and this is 
what we would encourage consumers to do.Conclusion
So, Zenith has explained very clearly what happened and I can see no errors have been 
made. I appreciate the increase is very substantial, and Mr C was right to query it. But it 
seems that a number of different criteria just positions Mr Cs profile in a place where the 
only premium available was very high. I know whats happened has had an impact on Mr C, 
and he does believe whats happened is unfair. But from the evidence Ive seen I cant say 
that Mr C has been treated unfairly. I cant see that Zenith has made any errors and I wont 
be asking it to do anything more. 
I note that the fault claim from April 2021 has now been closed as non-fault, and Mr Cs no 
claims discount has also now been amended. So, its likely he will now be able to get a more 
reasonable quote if he so wishes. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman