DRN-3131479
The complaint
Mr R has complained about AWP P&C SA. He isnt happy that it cancelled his motor 
warranty and declined a claim under his policy. 
What happened
Mr R took out a warranty through AWP for a number of years. But when he made a claim 
under his policy it turned down his claim and cancelled his policy. This was because AWP 
said that it gained information suggesting that Mr Rs cars mileage had been manipulated.
Mr R complained to AWP and it maintained its position, so he complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He asked AWP for it to 
provide some evidence of its position, but it wouldnt provide this. So, he upheld the 
complaint and asked AWP to reinstate the policy, reconsider Mr Rs claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions and awarded £300 compensation for the trouble and 
inconvenience Mr R faced.
As AWP didnt respond, despite the investigator chasing AWP for a response, the matter has 
been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Although I can understand AWPs position I would have expected it to provide evidence of its 
stance to this service. And to have responded to our investigators view about the case. 
Given this I can only go on the evidence provided by Mr R and the main dealership evidence 
that he has provided which supports his position. And having considered all of this I think the 
complaint should be upheld.
I say this as Mr R has provided clear documentation around the purchase of the vehicle, his 
maintenance of the car and his use of the warranty to date. And having considered all of this, 
and without anything from AWP to the contrary, I find Mr Rs evidence persuasive. 
Mr R has provided a lot of detail around the history of his vehicle which was well maintained 
and serviced through a main dealership. Plus, he has provided evidence in the form of the 
MOT history (including the yearly mileage) and from a national register in support of his 
position. And neither suggest any discrepancy in the mileage of his car.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for AWP to reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim. And, given that Mr R 
has been without the use of his car I agree that £300 compensation feels fair.
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons explained above, that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C 
SA to reinstate Mr Rs policy and consider his claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. And to pay him £300 compensation. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman