DRN-1984188
The complaint
Mrs A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed her account, wrongly recorded 
adverse credit information and her account balance and provided poor customer service.
What happened
Mrs A was a long-standing customer of NatWest. Following a review, it decided that it was 
going to close the accounts she was connected with. NatWest gave her seven days notice 
of closure on 2 May 2019. After this period had expired it made a demand for repayment on 
her overdraft balance. Mrs A complained and NatWest accepted it had provided poor 
customer service but said that its decision to close the account stood. She further 
complained about her account being passed to debt collectors and about different figures for 
the debt outstanding being given. In October 2019 NatWest accepted that the charges 
applied to her account had been incorrect. It said it would provide her with an updated 
statement. She referred her complaint to this service. When NatWest sent its business file it 
said it couldnt show it had sent Mrs A statements and said it had re-ordered them for her in 
February 2020.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part and Mrs A paid £100 as 
a result of the poor customer service. He said that:
- NatWest had acted within its terms and conditions when it decided to close the 
accounts. There was no evidence that it had acted in an unfair or discriminatory way 
as Mrs A has claimed. It had shown that as part of its policy it would close all 
associated accounts including joint accounts.
- After the expiry of the notice the overdraft balance on the account was £816.07. This 
increased to £944.20 with interest and charges. But NatWest accepted that those 
applied after 1 May 2019 should be refunded and credited the account with £70.12. 
There was also a bank credit of £100 on 4 November 2019 and so the balance then 
owing was £774.08.
- NatWest was entitled to take action to collect and then recover this debt. It had 
shown it had written to Mrs A about it and as the amount wasnt repaid it had referred 
this to debt collectors.
- The information reported to credit reference agencies would have been in line with 
the balance outstanding although NatWest explained that there could be a four-week 
lag in the information being updated. Mrs A hadnt shown that this was still incorrect.
- He thought it was poor that NatWest couldnt show it had sent out statements to    
Mrs A any sooner as she had been requesting these since June 2019.
- NatWest hadnt offered any compensation for the poor service and in his view £100 
was appropriate. It agreed to pay this amount.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said she had still not received the statements that NatWest claimed 
it had sent. The compensation offered wasnt sufficient for the poor customer service, 
distress caused and the costs she had incurred both on the phone with international calls 
and her need to visit branches and travel from abroad. She didnt think that sufficient 
account of information she had shared with NatWest had been taken before the accounts 
were closed. The only mail she received was after the account was closed. And she 
maintained that she had been profiled as a customer and so was being unfairly treated.    
Mrs A said she hadnt received a letter of apology from NatWest. There had been no due 
diligence with the information reported to credit agencies and she had been subject to a drop 
in her credit rating as a result of false information reported. She hadnt been asked to show 
these errors by this service. Mrs A explained that she had been to a branch on two 
occasions and hadnt been given access to her accounts. We had relied on what NatWest 
had said and ought to have listened to the calls she made. As a result, she wanted her 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that under the terms and conditions of the account NatWest was entitled to tell 
Mrs A that it no longer wanted to offer her banking facilities. I see no evidence that this was 
the result of any discrimination against her. I understand from her comments to this service 
that Mrs A had given NatWest some information about earlier payments into her account 
which shes also provided to us. She complained about the decision to close her account 
and NatWest didnt change its opinion. So, I dont think it can be responsible for the 
difficulties she describes then in not being able to make payments any longer. After the 
decision to close the account she had no access to online banking.
NatWest accepted that Mrs A received poor service when calling into the branch. It doesnt 
seek to disagree with her comments and said in the final response that Mrs A found agents 
to be unhelpful and impatient and you were hung up on. And as Mrs A says it offered to 
reimburse her if she could provide evidence of call charges.
From her account transactions I can see that her balance on 2 May 2019 was an overdraft of 
£816.07 with a standing order of £821 referred to as mortgage paid that day. That amount 
was due to be paid back. NatWest wrote to Mrs A on 13 May 2019 about this. And it made a 
demand for payment on 13 August 2019. No repayment or arrangement was reached, and 
NatWest had referred the matter to its debt collectors and has shown that it marked a default 
in October 2019. 
I can see that on 10 March 2020 we did ask Mrs A for any information to support her 
complaint that information was being incorrectly reported to credit reference agencies. Given 
whats been said about the error with charges referred to above I do think that is likely to 
have happened. And thats because the figure included in the demand for payment on 13 
August 2019 of £944.20 was incorrect. Having said that I dont consider theres evidence to 
show that this had a material impact on her credit score given that the substantial element of 
that balance was fairly repayable, and Mrs A didnt repay it leading to the default. I agree 
with the calculations of our investigator above and that the correct balance became £774.08. 
But I dont find NatWest hasnt acted unfairly in seeking to recover this money from Mrs A.
There was an issue in Mrs A getting timely access to her statements. I dont consider it 
reasonable that as a result she didnt repay any of the outstanding debt. But I can 
understand her frustration at not being given a clear explanation of the balance outstanding 
and then as I say finding out that this was incorrect. Im not satisfied that NatWest provided 
statement information after she requested it. My understanding is that she may have been 
out of this country after the end of January 2020 and this could explain why she hasnt seen 
statements NatWest said it sent to her in February 2020. These were sent to the address on 
record and so I dont have a basis to find NatWest made a mistake. I dont consider sending 
these by email would necessarily have been practical or secure and NatWest says it wont 
be doing so for these reasons.Putting things right
I consider Mrs A has received poor service and has been distressed at not being given a 
clear answer to her questions about the level of borrowing outstanding and her dispute. I 
accept what Mrs A said about that as although I did not have call recordings I could see what 
NatWest had clearly said about its service. I didnt think that the compensation of £100 was 
sufficient and I asked NatWest if it would increase it to what I thought was reasonable at 
£300. This was to reflect the poor service provided and the incorrect figures provided both to 
Mrs A and to debt collectors then contacting her. It agreed to do so, and our investigator 
asked Mrs A if she agreed to this. She asked for more time to consider this which she was 
given, and I think she has had sufficient time to take any advice about this and provide any 
further evidence she wanted to. She doesnt agree that this amount of compensation is 
sufficient taking into account what happened, that her son was stranded without money and 
that she had costs of flights and also a parking ticket when she visited a branch. She says 
this doesnt reflect her billable hours.
I wont be considering costs of Mrs A travelling from outside this country to deal with this 
matter which I dont think would be reasonable to operate an account based here. Nor will I 
be awarding specific costs for the amount of time she has spent dealing with this  we rarely 
do so and wouldnt award professional rates. I have considered the information Mrs A has 
provided to support her claim and everything that has happened. And in my judgement £300 
is the fair amount to reflect all this.
I dont have clear evidence that statements were actually sent to Mrs A and she says she 
hasnt received them. So, I will require NatWest to do so. I make clear that this will apply to 
any accounts in her name or in joint names. If she does want those for her children she will 
need to contact NatWest about them provided she has appropriate authority over those 
accounts. 
I appreciate that this was not the full outcome Mrs A was looking for. She has indicated she 
has taken legal advice about what happened and if she doesnt accept my decision she 
remains free to pursue this matter to court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require National Westminster Bank Plc to:
1) Pay Mrs A £300.
2) Send statements of any accounts held in her name or in joint names with her 
covering the period 2019 to the date of closure to the postal address it has on record 
for her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman