DRN-2108802
The complaint
 Mr F believes MotoNovo Finance Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire purchase 
agreement hed applied for.
What happened
 In September 2014, Mr F was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. The agreement was for £3,995 over 48 months, with monthly repayments of 
£111.53.
Mr F has complained that MotoNovo didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. Hes 
said he desperately needed a car to get to work. But, at the time he took out the agreement, 
he was behind on his mortgage and credit card payments; and he was using payday loans to 
try and keep up with his monthly commitments. Hes also said that his financial difficulties 
got worse after taking out the finance, resulting in him having to sell his home in 2017.
MotoNovo didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly, so Mr F brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said MotoNovo couldnt provide a copy of the credit file they checked when 
they approved Mr Fs application, although she didnt doubt theyd done one. So she 
considered the credit file Mr F supplied, which showed details of his financial position in 
2014. And she thought this would likely be the same information as MotoNovo saw in 2014.
The investigator said the credit file showed Mr F had been in arrears with his mortgage from 
January 2011, as well as being in arrears with his credit card payments. And this showed he 
was struggling with his existing financial commitments. Because of this, and the size, term 
and APR of the finance Mr F had applied for; the investigator thought MotoNovo shouldve 
conducted further checks before they agreed to lend.
The investigator considered Mr Fs bank statements from the time of his application, as 
these were what she thought MotoNovo shouldve looked at. And these showed Mr F had a 
monthly income of £1,612, and a monthly expenditure (including the insurance and road tax 
costs of the car he was financing) of £1,371 before food, petrol or the payment to MotoNovo.
The investigator said that, after paying MotoNovo, Mr F would be left with £126 to pay for 
food, petrol and other necessary expenses. Which she didnt think was enough  Mr F had 
said he spent £200 a month on food and would need to spend a further £120 a month on 
petrol for driving to and from work. So the investigator said that the hire purchase agreement 
wasnt affordable or sustainable. And she didnt think MotoNovo acted fairly or reasonably in 
approving the lending.
Because Mr F had already settled the agreement in full by selling the car, the investigator 
said he should only have to pay the money he borrowed. So she thought that MotoNovo 
should refund him all of the interest and fees hes paid them, plus interest on this refund. 
And she said they should also remove any adverse information from his credit file.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigator. They said the credit file theyd checked showed 
Mr F was up to date with his mortgage payments, although they cant provide us with a copy 
of this for data protection reasons. But theyve said we should be able to request a copy of 
the credit file they checked, directly from the credit reference agencies.
MotoNovo said that the car was inexpensive and the repayments were reasonable as a 
result; the customer was in permanent full time employment. They also said that Mr F never 
made them aware that he was struggling to make repayments and made all of the scheduled 
payments until the agreement was repaid. Because of this, MotoNovo thought theyd acted 
responsibly when agreeing to lend.
The investigator explained to MotoNovo how their comments didnt change her mind. So 
MotoNovo have asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did MotoNovo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
F would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did MotoNovo make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr F 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that MotoNovo didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Fs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did MotoNovo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied for; 
as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
MotoNovo have explained that theyre unable to provide us with a copy of the credit file they 
checked due to data protection reasons. And theyve said we can request a copy of this from 
the credit reference agencies. But MotoNovo are undoubtedly aware that were unable to 
obtain a copy of this. If theyre unable or unwilling to provide this information, only Mr F can 
obtain a copy of his credit file.
And Ive seen a copy of the credit file Mr F obtained from the credit reference agencies, 
which shows his financial position at the time he applied to MotoNovo. The credit file clearly 
shows that Mr F had three mortgage accounts:
account one shows constant arrears of one- or two-months payments from January 
2012 to June 2013. All payments are then showing as being up to date until the 
application was made.account two shows occasional missed payment between October 2011 and March 
2012, then the account is showing as being up to date until the application was made.
account three shows a missed payment in September 2011, one-months arrears from 
January to September 2012, then all payments up to date until the application was 
made.
Based on this, I agree with MotoNovo that the mortgage was showing as up to date at the 
time the application was made. But there were historic arrears, and this indicates that Mr F 
had had problems maintaining his financial commitments in the recent past. And, because 
the mortgage is a priority debt, I think that this makes the historic arrears more concerning.
The credit file also shows Mr F had two credit cards and a loan. The first credit card was 
opened in March 2014 (a few months before the application was made) and that all 
payments were up to date. The second credit card shows as being between one- and three-
months in arrears from January 2012 to January 2014, then being up to date until the 
application was made. And the loan shows as being taken out in February 2014 (again, a 
few months before the application was made) and being one month in arrears at the date of 
the application.
Theres no evidence on the credit file that Mr F was using short-term payday lenders before 
making the application, but this does show he was using them afterwards.
Different lenders have different criteria, so I wouldnt expect MotoNovo to automatically 
decline the application due to the historic arrears. But I would expect them to take these into 
consideration when making their overall lending decision. And the extent of the arrears, the 
recent lending that Mr F had taken out, and the fact that this lending was already in arrears, 
indicates that Mr F was in financial difficulties. So, I wouldve expected MotoNovo to do 
additional checks before making their lending decision.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr F could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
The main additional check Id expect MotoNovo to have done is to check Mr Fs income and 
expenditure to ensure their finance was affordable at the point of application, and to see that 
affordability was sustainable throughout the lifetime of the lending. I cant see that MotoNovo 
ever independently verified Mr Fs income, and I dont think its reasonable for them to rely 
on self-declared income. Especially when the other checks have indicated possible signs of 
financial difficulty.
Mr F has provided his bank statements for the period 4 July to 3 October 2014  he made 
his application to MotoNovo in August 2014, and it was approved in late September 2014. In 
the absence of anything else, I think these bank statements give a good indication of what 
MotoNovo would likely have discovered if theyd asked about Mr Fs expenditure.
The bank statements show that Mr F was almost continually overdrawn, and that hed 
exceeded his overdraft limit on seven separate occasions during this three-month period. 
Which resulted in him being charged interest and fees by his bank.
The bank statements show Mr F had an average income of £1,614 for the three-month 
period. And his average monthly expenditure was £1,036 (for his mortgage, utilities, 
insurances, phone, TV and his two credit cards). But the loan of £134 showing on the credit 
search isnt showing on his bank statements, nor are his council tax payments. So, 
deducting this loan, allowing £110 for his council tax (which is what Mr F says he paid at the 
time), £40 for his average monthly overdraft fees, and £111 for the MotoNovo payment; Mr F 
would be left £183 disposable income a month.I dont consider £183 a month to be sufficient for Mr F to cover his food, fuel, expenses 
related to his new car, and other outgoings such as clothing. So, for this reason, I dont think 
the finance was affordable or the payments sustainable. And in not doing the additional 
checks Id expect them to do, MotoNovo didnt act responsibly when approving the finance.
Did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think MotoNovo acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
 
Putting things right
 Mr F has explained that financing the car pushed him over the edge into the arms of 
payday lenders and mortgage arrears. But he had use of the car, and he sold it and paid off 
the outstanding amount on the agreement.
Taking this into account, I think its right that Mr F should pay for the car. But, because the 
finance should never have been agreed, I dont think its right that he should have to pay any 
interest or charges. And his credit file should reflect that the finance shouldnt have been 
approved.
So, MotoNovo should:
refund all of the interest and charges applied to Mr Fs finance agreement, plus 
simple interest at 8% from the date the interest and charges were paid to the date of 
the refund ; and
remove all records of the finance agreement from Mr Fs credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Fs complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited 
must follow my directions above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman