DRN-3031403
complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out alongside a loan in 1995. Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
The policys one-off upfront premium of approximately £191.80 was paid in advance by 
being added to the loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest over the term of the 
loan. The loan was repayable over a 12-month term and the policy term matched that of the 
loan.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Lloyds had to make it clear that Mrs B had a choice in taking the policy. Mrs B has said 
that the policy was taken out during a telephone call in 2002, but Lloyds have provided 
evidence that it was taken out in a branch during a meeting in 1995. Due to the length of 
time that has passed, Lloyds no longer has a copy of the credit agreement that Mrs B 
signed. I dont think this is unreasonable considering the sale was around 26 years ago. 
It has been able to give me a sample agreement that was in use at the time and I think 
it's more likely this represents what Mrs B would have seen when she took out the loan. 
This set out the cost of the credit loan and the PPI loan separately, so I think it was clear 
they were two separate products. It also listed the PPI costs as optional loan repayment 
protection. Below this, it gave the option to take out optional payment protection 
insurance by selecting either a yes or no box. Looking at this, I think its more likely 
Lloyds made it clear that the policy was an optional product and that Mrs B chose to take 
it out, knowing she didnt have to. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
Mrs B has told us what her circumstances were in 2002, when she was working for the 
same employer that she was with in 1995. We asked her to let us know if her 
circumstances were different in 1995 but didnt get a response. Because of this, Ive 
based my assessment on her circumstances in 2002, as I think its more likely they were 
largely similar. And looking at Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, I dont think that the 
policy was fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Mrs B was eligible for 
the cover and although she had some sick pay available to her, the policy would have 
paid out if she was too sick to work or was made redundant, and it would have paid out 
for longer than the sick pay she had with her employer. It also would have paid out in 
addition to any benefits she had with her employer.
There was nothing about Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Mrs B says she had a medical condition when the PPI 
was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. I say this 
because the issue Mrs B has mentioned was operated on and she hasnt mentioned any 
ongoing or recurring issues in relation to it. So it seems like a one-off issue and its 
unlikely she would have expected to claim on the policy for it. There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health and back problems. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs B as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs B 
would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2021. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman