DRN-4085771
The complaint
Ms C complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) declined her claim when her cat 
became ill, under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Cs cat was taken to a vet on 27 September 2022. A lump was found and after further 
investigations it was found to be cancerous. Treatment was required and Ms C made a claim 
to Pinnacle under her policy. She says it unfairly declined her claim as it says symptoms of 
the illness were found during her policys 14-day exclusion period. 
In its final response to Ms Cs complaint Pinnacle maintained that the symptoms of Ms Cs 
cats illness occurred within the first 14 days of the policy. It says its policy terms are clearly 
set out in its policy documentation and explained during the application. Pinnacle says that 
from the vets records a lump was noticed on 27 September 2022. And that the records also 
say Ms Cs partner advised this had been noticed a few days ago. 
Pinnacle confirms that the last day of the exclusion period was on 25 September 2022. This 
means the symptoms of the illness were noticed within the exclusion period. 
Ms C disagreed. She says her cat hadnt showed symptoms, as defined by the policy, within 
this period. Because of this she decided to refer the matter to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. He says the policy wording is clear and was provided to Ms C at 
the time of her application. He thought it was evident the lump was noticed within the 
exclusion period. This meant Pinnacle hadnt acted unfairly when declining Ms Cs claim. 
Ms C didnt think this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Im sorry that Ms Cs cat has been ill. I 
hope the treatment she obtained has been successful. But I dont think Pinnacle treated her 
unfairly when declining her claim. Let me explain.
Ive read the welcome letter Pinnacle sent to Ms C, which says:
Important information about your policy
Your policy starts on 12th September 2022. Any illnesses that happen within 14 days, or any 
accidents that happen within 3 days, won't be covered.
And:
We'll give you 14 days to make sure the cover meets your needs. If you decide it's not for 
you, you can cancel without any cost or obligation, you will receive a full refund of any 
premium paid, provided you have not made a claim.
I think this explains clearly that if an illness occurs within 14 days of the policy starting, there 
is no cover in place under Ms Cs policy. 
Ive also read Ms Cs policy terms to understand more fully the cover provided and what 
definitions apply. Ive copied the relevant excerpts below:
Section 4
We will not pay for: the cost of any treatment for any illness which occurs or shows 
symptoms within 14 days of the start date.
And:
Symptom(s) means a change in your pets normal healthy state, its bodily functions or 
behaviour.
I acknowledge Ms Cs comments that there were no symptoms, as defined above, during the 
exclusion period. When considering this Ive read the notes provided by the vet who 
assessed Ms Cs cat. The notes say:
noticed lump on her [the cats] right shoulder, only noticed a few days ago but not sure how 
long has been there, otherwise well.
The vet recorded this information at the time Ms Cs cat was first assessed on 27 September 
2022. The policy incepted on 12 September. Based on this I dont think its unreasonable for 
Pinnacle to conclude the lump existed either prior to or during the 14-day policy exclusion 
period. Based on Ms Cs partners comments the lump was also likely to have been noticed 
during this period. 
The emergence of a lump would, I think, reasonably constitute a change to Ms Cs cats 
normal healthy state. It was subsequently identified that this lump was cancerous. It follows 
that a symptom of Ms Cs cats illness occurred within the exclusion period. Because of this 
no cover is provided under her insurance policy with Pinnacle. 
I acknowledge Ms Cs comments that an animal could have a lump that is benign. This 
would mean there was no change to the animals normal healthy state. But in her cats 
case there was a change to her cats normal healthy state. The cat developed a lump, and 
this was found to be cancerous. So, this reasonably demonstrates there was a change to its 
normal healthy state.  
Im sorry for the upset Ms C was caused by her cat falling ill. But having carefully considered 
all of the evidence and circumstances, I dont think Pinnacle treated her unfairly by relying on 
its policy terms and declining her claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 Mike Waldron
Ombudsman