DRN-4109896
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) hasnt refunded the money he lost 
when he was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
Mr B is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr B throughout my decision. 
The facts of the case are well known to both parties, so I wont go into detail here. Briefly, Mr 
B fell victim to an investment scam and in April 2022 he transferred £3,366.40 from his 
account with Santander to his own account at a cryptocurrency exchange. The funds were 
converted and sent on to the scammer. 
Mr Bs representative contacted Santander in October 2022. Santander spoke to Mr B and 
considered his claim but didnt agree to provide a refund, so Mr B brought a complaint to this 
service.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He noted 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case and said that the payment request wasnt so unusual that hed have 
expected Santander to have intervened.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said the payment should 
have been flagged by Santander as it was the largest payment hed made for 12 months and 
the payment was 1.7 times greater than any previous payment in the period. In addition, the 
payment was to a cryptocurrency exchange and Santander should have been aware that 
this involved a high risk of being a scam payment. This was particularly so given an FCA 
warning in mid-2018. Mr B also said a high account balance wasnt a reason not to have 
concerns. 
Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
The CRM Code doesnt apply in this case. This is because the CRM Code only applies to 
faster payments made to another person and Mr B transferred funds to an account in his 
own name at a cryptocurrency exchange. Also, the funds werent transferred to the scammer 
by faster payment. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr B when he made the payment request, or whether it should have done more than it 
did. I have considered the position carefully.
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably when it made the payment?
Having considered Mr Bs account activity for the 12-month period before the scam I agree 
with the investigator that the scam payment wasnt so unusual or uncharacteristic that Id 
expect Santander to flag it or ask Mr B any questions about it. 
I appreciate the payment was the largest payment Mr B had made but it was still relatively 
low in value. It was also made to a legitimate company and left Mr Bs account with a healthy 
balance after it was processed. It didnt follow a common pattern of scam transactions either, 
as there was a single payment rather than a series of transactions. So I dont think 
Santander acted unreasonably in processing the payment without making further enquiries. 
The position may have changed if Mr B had continued to make similar or greater payments 
from his Santander account over a short timeframe. 
I accept that at the time of Mr Bs payment banks should have been aware of scams 
involving cryptocurrency and, in some circumstances, intervened even when a payment 
seemed to go to an account in their customers own name. But I dont believe there was 
enough going on here to have concerned Santander that Mr B was likely falling victim to a 
scam. A relatively small payment to a cryptocurrency exchange isnt sufficiently unusual, in 
the absence of other risk factors, to warrant intervention. 
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. If all payments such as the one 
Mr B made were blocked while further enquiries were made, many genuine payments would 
be stopped which would cause significant disruption and delay. 
Recovery
As the funds went to an account in Mr Bs name there was little Santander could do to 
recover his lost funds. I understand though that Santander was able to get back £0.40 from 
the cryptocurrency exchange. 
OverallIm sorry Mr B has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept hes been the victim of 
a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman