DRN-3203275
The complaint
Mr H complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. Mr H was a deferred 
member of this scheme, having been employed from the mid-1990s until around 2004. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Origen Financial Services Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep 
things simple Ill refer to Origen. 
What happened
Mr H first approached Origen in 2015 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. The 
advice was provided free to Mr H as part of a process initiated by his pension provider 
looking to give members a menu of options. The options included retiring early from the 
scheme, transferring out of the scheme to another provider, or doing nothing.
Ive noted there was quite a bit of time spent at the beginning of the relationship between 
Origen and Mr H arranging meetings, exchanging information and clarifying certain issues. 
Its obvious there were some failures of communication along the way which meant the 
whole process of meaningfully discussing Mr Hs pension extended out over several months.
Information gathered by Origen about Mr H at around that time was broadly as follows:
Mr H was 60 years old and still working full time. He earned approximately £1,863 
(gross) per month and was said to have a disposable income after expenses of £450 
per month.
Mr H was in good health. He was unmarried and living alone. He owned a property 
outright, valued at £105,000. He had a variety of savings totaling around £54,000 and 
no debts.
There were two parts to the OPS Mr H had. It comprised of a main DB pension 
element which had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £51,000, with 
a normal retirement age of 65. Mr H had also contributed to an additional voluntary 
contribution (AVC) scheme linked to this pension. This element amounted to around 
£9,000.
An initial suitability report was issued by Origen to Mr H on 5 May 2016. The report said it 
recommended Mr H should not transfer his pension at all but leave it where it was instead for 
his retirement. Nevertheless, there then followed an on-going dialogue between the parties 
after which Origen said that because Mr H still insisted he wanted to transfer out of his OPS, 
it would help him do this. It said it could treat him as an insistent client, a term used in the 
industry to describe a situation where a client goes against the advice of a professional 
financial adviser.
Origen then went on to provide Mr H with a second suitability report, on 19 May 2016. This 
report set out once again that Origens recommendation was that he shouldnt transfer out of 
his pension. However, it said in the light of Mr H still wanting to transfer out anyway, he had 
been categorised as an insistent client by an Origen oversight panel. In those 
circumstances, Origen agreed to facilitate the transaction and Mr H later transferred out of 
his OPS to a personal pension plan. 
Mr H now says he was given unsuitable advice by Origen and has complained. Origen 
investigated his complaint but said the transfer was done specifically on an insistent client 
basis as its advice had always been that transferring out wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. It 
said it had followed the correct procedures in treating Mr H as an insistent client.
The complaint was then referred to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it and 
said we shouldnt uphold it. They thought Mr H was an insistent client and Origen had 
correctly followed the guidance available at the time. 
Mr H is represented by a third-party company which says he hasnt agreed with our 
investigators view. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
What was Origen required to do?
Origen says Mr H went against its advice and this is the crux of this complaint. It says that he 
was advised several times that he ought to stay inside the DB scheme, and it was Mr H 
himself that insisted he wanted to transfer out. Origen says there was extensive telephone 
and written dialogues between it and Mr H over several months to this effect and that he 
ultimately made it clear he wanted to transfer out of the DB scheme, against Origens advice. 
In deciding whether Origen treated Mr H fairly in dealing with him as an insistent client, Ive 
therefore thought carefully about the guidance and rules that were in place at the time of the 
advice.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) places important general obligations 
on firms like Origen when giving financial advice to clients. These include the overarching 
principles such as: Principle 1  Integrity; Principle 2 - skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 - 
customers interests; Principle 9 - reasonable care. 
Also, in February 2016 the regulator provided specific guidance on its website about what 
steps it expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client. Three key steps 
were set out as follows.
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this 
advice must be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of 
action. If the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there 
may be additional requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is 
provided by or checked by a pension transfer specialist, comparing the 
defined benefit (DB) scheme with the defined contribution (DC) scheme and 
starting by assuming the transfer is not suitable (see COBS 19.1).3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator also said the advice should be set out clearly in a suitability report, and that it 
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that 
they were acting against advice. It also added that if the client used their own words to 
indicate that they want to act against its advice, this should be clear.
The regulator also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good and 
poor practice. It gave the following examples of good practice relating to suitability reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding 
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the 
receiving product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal 
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome 
in a separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented.
Whilst this was guidance, rather than rules, I would have expected Origen to have been 
aware of this and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the 
regulators expectations.
Was Mr H an insistent client?
Ive mentioned above that several months elapsed between Mr H first speaking to Origen, at 
the end of 2015, and the point in spring 2016 when a recommendation can be said to have 
been formally provided to him. 
During these initial months there were a series of communications between the parties which 
Im going to summarise. Mr H also communicated with the pension administrators and 
another business about his AVCs. Ive looked at all these communications and I can see Mr 
H was becoming frustrated at how long things were taking to clarify. It seems Mr H had 
initially wanted to split the AVC and DB pension elements to take the respective benefits 
differently. One option he wanted to initially explore was whether he could access cash from 
the AVCs and keep the DB element where it was  i.e. inside his current scheme. I also 
listened to a large number of recorded calls between the parties which mainly cover the 
same issues.
Im not going to refer individually here to every email or recorded call regarding these 
matters, but suffice to say, I think Mr H was initially under a misapprehension about whether 
or not he could take his AVC pot and leave the DB part of his OPS where it was. Theres no 
doubt these issues caused delays and I can fully sympathise why Mr H became frustrated at 
the slow pace of progress in really discussing what could be done with the pension as a 
whole. But I dont think these issues were the fault of Origen as other parties were involved. 
However, when Origen eventually took it upon itself to clarify that he could transfer the AVC 
part and leave the DB part where it was, Mr H came to a decision about his pension - and 
said he wanted to transfer out both elements. There is good evidence contained in the calls I 
listened to showing Mr H arrived at this decision after weighing up things like the relatively 
small size of his pension, and of some of the plans he had to spend the money on. So, although Ive noted Mr Hs representative blames Origen for these delays and it has 
alleged Origens communications to Mr H about the AVCs werent clear, Im afraid I dont 
agree with this. The documents Ive seen and the calls Ive listened to all suggest the 
confusion about what Mr H could and couldnt do with the AVC element originated from 
either Mr H himself or another party involved in the pension administration. Our investigator 
explained this in some detail and I agree with what he said, but in short, I dont think these 
delays or the confusion about the AVCs in the early months of 2016 were Origens fault.
By the spring of 2016, I think Mr H had come to a fairly fixed view that he wanted to transfer 
the whole of his pension out after all, so he could access the funds flexibly. Its at around this 
point that the advice process started to speed up. 
I refer, for instance, to a recorded telephone call between Mr H and Origen on 11 April 2016. 
The key point Ive noted from this important call is Mr Hs specific desire to transfer the 
whole of his pension  both the AVC and DB elements - out to a personal pension scheme. 
He was asked by the advisor about his reasons for this and I think Mr H was clear about why 
he wanted the money. Mr H also talked about his concern that he had no real dependants to 
pass money on to when he died, thus implying that the OPS death benefits were of little use 
in his situation. During the call, I think the Origen adviser cautioned Mr H against this action 
by saying he would be giving up a guaranteed and indexed-linked pension income for the 
rest of his life.
Next, I turn to the suitability report of 5 May 2016. This report is also very important: it was 
based on  and similar in nature to - the call discussions and written contacts between the 
parties up until this date, all of which had Origen saying that transferring out wasnt a good 
idea. I think this suitability report could be fairly described as the first formal advice Mr H 
had received up to that point. Ive noted the report was also consistent with Origens 
informal position thus far, which was he should not leave the scheme. So, I think the report 
clearly and rightly said that transferring out was not in Mr Hs best interests. It said:
I recommend that you take no action at this time, remain a member of the [DB] scheme 
and consider drawing benefits at a future point. I have recommended you defer taking 
benefits for the following reasons:
You do not need any additional income or capital at this stage.
If you drew benefits now you would face an early retirement penalty.
You are still working and do not want to start drawing benefits until you retire.
Within the [DB] Pension Scheme you have a benefit promise that should give you 
a known level of income in the future.
The transfer value includes your AVC as you wanted [to] transfer both away.
Based on this report, and also on the many other calls and emails that had preceded it, I 
think Origens advice was very clear. I note the report also set out some of the other options 
he had, such as early retirement, and it described why these werent suitable for him either. I 
disagree with Mr Hs allegation that Origen had either failed to point out the risks of leaving 
his scheme or that he didnt understand what Origens advice was. Ive considered that Mr H 
wasnt an experienced investor, but my strong impression in listening to many calls is that he 
was nevertheless an intelligent and shrewd individual and at this point in time, he would 
have fully understood what Origen was telling him. In my view, the suitability report met the 
expectations of the regulator in being clear enough and Mr H was unambiguously told any 
transfer out of his existing OPS wouldnt be in his best interests. Further to this, on 11 May 2016, I can see there was both another phone call between the 
parties and Origen also emailed Mr H. During the call, Mr H was told again he did not need 
to transfer out of his OPS and that it was possible to transfer the AVC element independently 
 this restated information hed been given a number of times elsewhere. Origens advisor 
also reiterated several times that transferring out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for him. 
Crucially, Mr H himself asked during the call to be treated as an insistent client and he 
asked for the adviser to email him to this effect so they could start that process running.
That email duly arrived with Mr H the same day. It too reiterated that Origens 
recommendation was that he should not transfer his pension as this would be likely to result 
in his eventual benefits being lower than if he remained a member of the scheme. Origen 
specifically listed down again, in writing, the same disadvantages of him transferring out. 
And it said if he still wanted to proceed against its advice then he should provide a written 
explanation, in his own words, and Origen would consider his request at an independent 
oversight panel. 
On 13 May 2016 Mr H explained by email, in his own words, why he wanted to transfer all 
the funds. He said this was to emigrate from the UK  an aspiration hed previously raised - 
and also to carry out some repairs on his home. 
I think that by inviting Mr H to set these reasons out, in writing and in his own words, Origen 
was complying with the guidance issued by the regulator concerning insistent clients. In the 
event, I can see Mr Hs explanation was somewhat short and I think its possible Origen 
could have asked him to expand a little more in what he said. But I dont think this affects 
anything. Having listened to many calls involving Mr H and viewed a number of his emails, I 
think his written explanation on this email was entirely consistent with his overall approach; 
in my view Mr Hs verbal and written communication style did tend to be succinct and to the 
point. So, I think what he said in his email reflected his continuing desire to transfer out of 
his OPS  a theme he and Origen had been corresponding about for several months. I also 
think that the few days that Mr H took to reply to Origen, between 11 and 13 May 2016 is 
reassuring; it showed he had set out his rationale in a considered way.
Origen says that on 17 May 2016 an internal oversight panel reviewed the insistent client 
request and concluded that, in Mr Hs circumstances, it would be supportive. 
There were further communications between the parties and all of them followed a similar 
pattern. On 18 May 2016, for example, Origen reiterated to Mr H that the advice had been 
not to transfer in another email. This email said: 
Our position has always been the same .. My advice was that it is not in your 
best interest to transfer away. As we have discussed you are free to seek advice 
elsewhere which would be at a personal expense. I wanted to confirm that you are 
not committing to transferring both [elements] until you complete the forms and 
send [them] back, you do not have to proceed. But if you do, you are accepting 
that you are transferring away from a final salary scheme and giving up a 
safeguarded benefit. This will be transferred into a drawdown arrangement and 
after the tax-free monies are paid any further withdrawals will be subject to tax at 
your marginal rate. I will arrange for the report to be posted to you over the next 
couple of days
Accordingly, on 19 May 2016 a second  and completely separate - suitability report was 
produced and sent to Mr H. It said: 
you have confirmed that you wish to proceed against the recommended advice stated in 
my [previous] report. And Origen once again listed a summary and a list of disadvantages 
to transferring out:
You have stated that you wish to proceed on an insistent basis.Taking some of your pension fund as a lump sum will reduce the fund 
available to provide you with an income, and you may find that you 
have insufficient income to live on in retirement.
If you wait until retirement age to take the benefits from your pension you will 
still retain all the options that are currently available to you now. This means 
that you will still have the flexibility to decide how you wish to take your 
pension benefits, adjusting them according to your objectives and 
circumstances at the time.
The benefits are not index linked so will not fluctuate in line with the 
underlying investments. By delaying taking the benefits, the value of your 
pension held with [your provider] will have increased with inflation. In 
addition, the early retirement penalty will reduce over time so that at age 65 it 
will no longer apply. This means that the benefits that you will receive are 
likely to be of less value than had you decided to remain in the scheme.
Transferring safeguarded benefits from an Occupational Pension scheme to a 
personal pension is a high risk and complex decision. You will face a combination of 
risks. 
It is important that you fully understand the reasons for my recommendations before 
making any decisions. I will contact you over the coming days to arrange a mutually 
agreeable time for us to discuss my report and complete any outstanding paperwork. 
This report went on to recommend a scheme for Mr H to transfer to. But I dont think this 
would have been confusing for Mr H. By this stage Origen had made it very clear that it 
didnt consider the transfer to be suitable. Mr H ought to have understood that what he was 
giving up and he had already decided to go ahead. Mr Hs representative has argued that 
Origen didnt have to make this recommendation and facilitate the transfer. Whilst that is 
right, it was a decision for Origen to make, which I can see it took seriously. The call history 
Ive referred to satisfies me that Mr H wanted to transfer anyway, and in providing the 
second recommendation, Origen wasnt acting contrary to the regulators guidance.
Did Origen follow the correct guidance?
Ive considered whether what Origen did in this case met the general and specific standards 
Ive referred to above. 
From Mr Hs perspective, whilst he was not an experienced investor, I think the evidence 
shows he knew he was being given an opportunity to make certain choices about his OPS. I 
believe he took some time to discuss and digest those options to arrive at a considered view 
about what he wanted to do. Whilst this view was quite obviously contrary to Origens 
advice, it was mainly based on an opinion that this pension was relatively small and that 
Mr H had other uses for the money which he considered to be more appropriate.
On the other hand, Origens recommendation was always that Mr H ought not to transfer out 
of this pension. Over the first few months of 2016 and ahead of Origens first suitability 
report, it could be said the advice was informal rather than formal. It consisted of telephone 
discussions and written communications exchanged between the parties. However, in the 
spring of 2016 once the AVC confusion had been cleared up, Origens advice became 
formalised. The suitability report of 5 May 2016 contained no surprises in that it followed everything Mr H had been told up to that point. It listed the valuable pension benefits and 
guarantees hed be giving up, and put Mr H on notice that his retirement funding could be 
compromised as a result.
What happened next?
Ive noted that both elements of Mr Hs pension were transferred out and placed into a 
drawdown fund in accordance with his attitude to risk. I also note Mr H went on to withdraw 
all the funds more or less straight away and paid income tax at the higher rate to access the 
money. 
Everything Ive seen therefore points to Mr H subsequently accessing the funds in the way 
he described throughout the insistent client process. And as Origen followed this process 
correctly, it bears no responsibility for what later happened.
Summary
In this decision, I have set out why I think there is strong and reliable evidence that Origen 
acted in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Origen was contracted by a third-party to provide advice to Mr H free of charge. In my view, 
that advice was suitable and consistent. Origen explained many times to Mr H that 
transferring out of his OPS wasnt in his best interests. 
In deciding to go against the advice, Mr H met the definition of an insistent client. However, 
Origen followed a process which, in my view, met the expectations of the regulator. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Origen Financial Services Limited does not need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman