DRN-3420668
The complaint
Ms R makes a number of complaints about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
following a direct debit issue. 
What happened
Ms R says there was a direct debit in place to pay her Virgin Money credit card account in 
August and September 2021. She says there was enough money in her account with a bank 
I will call N to pay the direct debit amount of £100. Ms R says the direct debit was not taken 
by Virgin Money and it removed her promotional interest rate. She says she gave Virgin 
Money a letter from N confirming no direct debit attempt was made. Ms R says Virgin 
Moneys compensation offer doesnt go far enough and Virgin Money took until December 
2021 to sort matters out despite telling her it would reverse the interest rate decision when it 
received Ns letter. She says the problem caused distress and was worried about the impact 
on her credit file.
Virgin Money says it couldnt take the direct debit for two consecutive months and so in line 
with agreed account terms and conditions was entitled to remove the interest rate offer. It 
says it has refunded the interest and reinstated the offer. It also accepts that it didnt deal 
with the issue when it said it would and has apologised as well as paying £75 compensation.
Ms R brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Virgin Money had dealt fairly 
with the complaint by paying appropriate compensation and reinstating the offer. In 
circumstances where it acted in line with the account terms and conditions by removing the 
interest rate offer when two months payments had been missed. The investigator thought 
Ns letter said the direct debit had been cancelled in December 2020.
Ms R doesnt accept that view and says Virgin Money should have called N as she hadnt 
used her Virgin Money account card for some time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Virgin Money has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by apologising, reinstating the promotional offer and paying appropriate 
compensation.
Im satisfied that Virgin Money, in line with agreed account terms and conditions, was 
entitled to remove Ms Rs promotional offer when the required account payment wasnt 
made for two months. I appreciate that Ms R thought the direct debit that had been set up, 
was in place to take the monthly payments but having looked at Ns letter Im satisfied that 
the direct debit had been cancelled in December 2020. I appreciate Ns letter says no direct 
debit attempt was made but I think on balance that was because the direct debit had already 
been cancelled. I dont think Virgin Money could have known about that or was responsible 
for its cancellation. I also think that it unlikely N would have a record of an attempt to take a 
direct debit in these circumstances.
I appreciate Ms R says that Virgin Money ought to have called N to discuss the issue and or 
direct debit problem. But I dont think reasonably it ought to have done so and think it was 
Ms Rs responsibility to make sure the required payment was made and to ensure the direct 
debit was active.
There is no question here that Virgin Money gave Ms R incorrect information and told her it 
was acting on the letter she sent it. But I accept that it didnt do so and misled Ms R. I am 
sure Ms R was caused distress and inconvenience in those circumstances and would have 
been concerned about the promotional offer. But Im satisfied Virgin Money has fairly 
apologised for that part of the complaint and fairly re-instated the offer as well as refunding 
interest.
The only real issue for me to consider is the compensation level. I dont think Ms R suffered 
a financial loss and think the impact on her by the mistake was relatively limited and in 
circumstances where Virgin Money was not responsible for the direct debit being cancelled 
in the first place. I think that the £75 compensation paid is fair and reasonable and reflects 
fairly what took place. I also think the interest refund was fair and reasonable when I have 
made clear I dont think Virgin Money was obliged to do so. I accept there was a delay in 
sorting matters out but think that is reflected in what Virgin Money did to put matters right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman