DRN-3880982
The complaint
Mr T complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim he made on a motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T insured a car with Covea. Following a collision with a third party, he made a claim. 
Covea declined cover for the claim. It said the damage to Mr Ts car and the third party 
vehicle wasnt consistent with Mr T and the third partys account of the collision.
Mr T complained to Covea. When it rejected his complaint, he referred it to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think Covea had done anything wrong. Mr T disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When it declined Mr Ts claim, Covea referred to a condition of the policy which says: 
If you make a claim which is at all false or fraudulent, or support a claim with any false or 
fraudulent statement or documents, you will lose all benefit and premiums you have paid for 
this policy. In addition:
The insurer may recover any sums paid by way of benefit under this policy. If You 
fraudulently provided us with false information, statements or documents the Insurer may 
record this on the anti-fraud databases; the insurer may also notify other organisations.
This indicates Covea believes Mr Ts claim to be false or fraudulent. Its up to Covea to show 
that this is more likely than not the case. My role here is to say whether I think its position in 
doing so is reasonable.
Mr Ts account of the incident is that he collided with the third party vehicle at a roundabout, 
making contact with the side of the third party vehicle with the front of his car. Importantly Mr 
T said when he made the claim, and has also told us, that there was only one impact 
between his car and the third party vehicle.
Coveas provided two reports completed by an engineer, covering inspections of both cars. 
Im satisfied the engineer who completed them is suitably qualified to give an opinion on the 
nature and likely cause of the damage which was noted to both cars.
In summary, the engineer has concluded that the level of damage seen on both Mr Ts car 
and the third party vehicle isnt consistent with Mr Ts account. The engineer noted evidence 
of multiple impacts to both vehicles, with the shape of impact marks on the third party vehicle 
suggesting that Mr Ts car had made contact with the third party vehicle on at least three 
occasions  the shape of the marks was consistent with the shape of the front of Mr Ts car.
Im satisfied that on balance, Covea could rely on the reports from the engineer. Those 
reports could only reasonably lead to a conclusion that Mr Ts account of the incident was 
inconsistent with the physical evidence available of the damage. 
I also think Coveas acted reasonably by saying that, to date, Mr Ts been unable to explain 
why the evidence from the vehicles indicates there were multiple impacts when he says 
there was only one. 
It isnt clear from the evidence available to me whether Covea believes the incident to have 
been entirely staged, in order to make a claim, or whether a genuine incident has been 
exaggerated to increase the possible settlement of the claim. I dont think this is relevant to 
my considerations here. All Covea needs to do is demonstrate that its more likely than not 
that the claim is in any way false or fraudulent  and exaggerating the extent of the damage 
caused is sufficient for this. In the absence of any explanation, I think Covea could 
reasonably conclude either the incident was staged or has been exaggerated.
So Im satisfied that Covea has persuasive evidence which suggests the account given by 
Mr T isnt accurate. In the absence of any reasonable explanation for this, I think it fairly 
concluded that the claim was more likely than not false or fraudulent. 
After Covea declined cover for the claim, and our investigator had given her view on the 
complaint, Mr T suggested to us that the further damage may have been caused by the 
garage to which the cars were taken after original collision. He said that was arranged by the 
driver of the third party vehicle. He suggests the garage has committed a criminal offence. 
He hasnt provided any evidence to support this. If he can do so, this should be provided to 
Covea so they can make any necessary enquiries and consider whether this changes their 
decision regarding cover for the claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. Im satisfied Covea Insurance plc acted 
reasonably when it declined cover for Mr Ts claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman