DRN-3461174
The complaint
Miss G says Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about 3 fixed sum loans provided by Dot Dot Loans to Miss G. These are:
Number Date Amount Term in 
monthsMonthly 
repaymentDate repaid
1 23/11/2019 300 3 £170.63 12/03/2020
2 10/10/2020 150 6 £45.30 12/04/2021
3 23/06/2021 100 9 £21.51 12/01/2022
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Gs complaint and thought Dot Dot Loans hadnt done 
anything wrong when it agreed to lend on each occasion. Miss G disagreed and the 
complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Gs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Dot Dot Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss G would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss G wouldve been able to do so?
2.Did Dot Dot Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Dot Dot Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Dot Dot Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for 
Miss G. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Miss G undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Dot Dot Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
Did Dot Dot Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
G would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Dot Dot Loans has provided evidence to show that before lending to Miss G on each 
occasion it carried out a credit check and asked her for details about her income and 
expenditure. It also used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate on average 
what Miss Gs living expenses were. It then calculated what it thought was Miss Gs 
disposable income to see if the loan repayments were affordable. Based on those checks 
Dot Dot Loans thought it was fair to lend on all 3 occasions.
Based on the amount that Miss G borrowed on each occasion, the repayment and term of 
loan, I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate. The checks on each of the 3 
occasions suggested to Dot Dot Loans the loans were affordable and Miss G could sustain 
the repayments over the term. With the information it had in front of it, it would have seen 
that the repayments for this loan were sustainably affordable. 
I also note that the amounts Miss G asked to borrow each time was reducing each time. By 
the time Miss G asked for loan 3, the amount of disposable income she held according to 
Dot Dot Loans assessment, had increased quite a lot since the first loan. There was also 
nothing in each credit search that ought to have raised any concerns with Dot Dot Loans. 
So, I dont think there was anything raised within the information it had in front of it, that 
meant it should have either done more or not granted the loans. 
I appreciate Miss G has said that the loans were unaffordable. But I dont think this is 
something Dot Dot Loans knew or ought to have known about from what I consider to be 
proportionate checks. Did Dot Dot Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Dot Dot Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman