DRN-1692016
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down their claim for storm 
damage under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S contacted Aviva to make a claim for storm damage to their home. Mr S and 
Mrs S didnt know exactly when the storm damage had happened. However, Aviva agreed to 
look at a report from a roofer appointed by Mr S and Mrs S. Following receipt of that report, 
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to provide a report. Aviva then turned down the claim 
because it said there wasnt evidence to show that the damage was a result of a one-off 
storm event.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
didnt think there was evidence to indicate that the claim was caused by a one-off event.
As Mr S and Mrs S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider storm claim complaints, there are three main issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all of these questions is yes, then the claim is likely to succeed. If the answer 
to any of these questions is no, the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be covered.
For the first question, on whether there was a storm around the date the damage occurred, 
this is not a straightforward question to answer. When Mr S spoke to Aviva, he didnt know 
when the damage had taken place. He said that the damage was likely to have been caused 
by a storm a few months previously. This was because a bird had nested in the loft since the 
hole had appeared in the roof and its eggs had rotted and caused maggots. There had also 
been a build-up of water in the roof insulation, which had reached saturation point and then 
started to leak into the bathroom, which had caused mould and damaged bathroom tiles.
Mr S said he thought the damage might have happened during storms a few months before 
he found the damage. Although he didnt know whether the roof damage had happened in 
that time period, he thought it was likely to be the case. So, I think it is difficult to conclude 
with any certainty when the original damage actually happened and, given that Mr S himself 
says the damage might have happened at some point over a five month period, it is difficult 
to connect it with any particular storm event. I therefore have to reserve judgement on this 
point as it is impossible to say with any certainty without looking at weather records for a set 
date.
So, moving on to the second question about the nature of the damage. Following Aviva 
turning down the claim, Mr S and Mrs S submitted their own report on the roof damage. This 
said Roof Repairs following Storm Damage and then said that tiles had blown off and the 
felt had been ripped by high winds. As a result, Aviva arranged for an inspection to be 
carried out. This concluded that the roof had suffered from age related nail fatigue and had 
been further loosened during strong winds. It said that there was no storm damage apparent 
and that the roof damage was consistent with age related wear and tear. Following this 
inspection, Aviva maintained its decision to turn down the claim. 
While this service was looking at the complaint, Mr S and Mrs S submitted a further report 
that said it was quite clear that the tiles had been blown out, which only could have occurred 
under storm conditions. It also said that the lats and nails were still in good condition and 
that most of the side hip tiles had snapped backs. We asked Aviva to consider this report, 
which it did, and it maintained its decision to decline the claim. Aviva said its own photos 
showed that one tile had come away and that, although this was beside the hip tiles, it didnt 
show that any of the hip tiles had lifted.
Ive thought about this carefully. The initial report submitted by Mr S and Mrs S was very 
brief and said that the damage was due to high winds. High winds arent the same as a 
storm and dont necessarily mean that a storm has taken place, which would need to be the 
case for the claim to be accepted under this part of the policy. However, as a result of this 
report, Aviva arranged for its own inspection to be carried out, which I think was a 
reasonable response. Im aware that Mr S and Mrs S arent convinced about the quality of 
this inspection because the surveyor used a camera on a telescopic reach and also didnt go 
into the loft space. However, I dont think that an inspection carried out from ground level is 
necessarily an issue and, having seen the photos taken, I think that the surveyor did gather 
relevant information to assess whether the damage was likely to be caused by a storm. On 
the basis of both of those reports, I think that it was reasonable for Aviva to decide that there 
wasnt evidence to show that the damage was the result of a storm.
Ive also read the new report that Mr S and Mrs S submitted. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded that this shows that the damage that was claimed for was the result of a storm. 
The new report seems to describe more extensive damage than was noted at the time of the 
original claim but the photos taken by Avivas surveyor dont suggest that the damage in the 
new report was there at the time of the original claim. So, I dont think that this demonstrates 
that a storm was the main cause of the damage claimed for.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think that Aviva did investigate the cause of the damage 
to Mr S and Mrs Ss roof, including the additional evidence provided, and that it was 
reasonable to turn down the claim on the basis of it not being the result of a one-off storm 
event. As a result, I dont require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman