DRN-4086231
The complaint
Mr M complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with RCI 
Financial Services Limited wasn't of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr M acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with RCI in October 2018. 
Over the course of the next three years he experienced several faults with the vehicle 
including, but not limited to, loss of power, faulty air conditioning and a faulty gearbox on two 
occasions.
Mr M brought a complaint to RCI as he wished to reject the vehicle on the ground that it 
wasn't of satisfactory quality. In its final response RCI said it wasn't possible to reject the 
vehicle as all the repairs had been completed under the manufacturers warranty and at no 
cost to Mr M. It also said Mr M had been kept mobile during the repairs. As a gesture of 
goodwill RCI offered to reimburse Mr M four monthly payments (totalling £2,000) due to the 
inconvenience caused. Mr M didn't agree and brought his complaint to this service. He 
provided an independent inspection report and maintained that he wanted to reject the car. 
Our investigator initially concluded that although he accepted there was a fault with the car 
at the time of his view, that didn't mean the car was faulty when it had been supplied to Mr 
M, or that it wasn't of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. He concluded that the 
offer of £2,000 from RCI was a fair offer as there wasn't any obligation for it to do anything 
further.
Mr M didn't agree with the investigator and provided an updated independent inspection 
report which included additional conclusions, including that the vehicle was suffering from a 
manufacturing defect which had never been rectified by the dealership. On receiving this 
report RCI consulted with the manufacturer who subsequently asked for one of its engineers 
to inspect the vehicle. The manufacturer maintained that the issues relating to the gearbox 
replacements and the turbo were not related. Following the inspection RCI agreed to take 
back the vehicle and refund Mr Ms initial deposit of £3,664.93 minus the road fund licence, 
first registration fee and any damages that were not commensurate with the vehicle's age 
and mileage. It said the cost of any damage would be established following an independent 
inspection of the vehicle after its collection from the customer's home address.
RCI said that refunding Mr Ms four monthly finance payments wouldnt be justified as Mr M 
was always kept mobile for the duration of the repairs, albeit not always in a like for like 
vehicle. Furthermore, it said, Mr M received an abundance of goodwill offers both from the 
manufacturer and the dealership and had free of charge repairs carried out on his vehicle 
despite his violation of the terms and conditions of the Pan-European warranty contract. RCI 
also said that the vehicle's current mileage is 1.5 times more than the mileage commitment 
within the finance agreement. It said RCI is open to waiving the excess mileage cost if it 
wasnt required to refund any finance payments.
Mr M wasnt happy and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said the calculation of 
the offer appeared to be based on a figure that was not representative of the deposit he paid 
(£13,164.93). He also said the manufacturer had said it would factor in loss of earnings 
when the vehicle broke down. Mr M went on to say that previous compensation in terms of 
servicing, extended warranty etc, was from the manufacturer and not related to RCI or the 
finance agreement. With regards to the mileage Mr M said RCI has factored in excess 
mileage as part of its offer, but the manufacturer website clearly states this is only if you 
decide to return the vehicle to RCI Financial Services. Mr M said this is not the situation in 
this case. He said upon conclusion of this complaint and his agreement to the offer and 
figure of £8,614.93, RCI had recourse to reduce the offer by whatever it deems to be 
appropriate based on reasonable wear and tear. Mr M said it would have been his intention 
to purchase the vehicle at the end of the contract, and this would not be an issue.
I wrote a provisional decision on 4 April 2023. I said:
It's not disputed that there is a problem with Mr M's vehicle. As RCI has agreed to 
take back the vehicle it's left to me to decide what a fair and reasonable resolution is. 
In hire purchase agreements the finance provider, in this case RCI, becomes the 
owner of the car and is subject to the Consumer Rights Act 2015. The law says that 
goods supplied should be of satisfactory quality. I must take account of relevant law 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable. So I must consider whether the car was 
of satisfactory quality when Mr M acquired it at the point of sale.
Although RCI has allowed Mr M to reject the car on the basis that there is an issue 
with the gearbox it hasnt provided a copy of the latest inspection report. So its not 
clear to me if RCI accepts the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, as 
this would likely affect the remedy. In its letter to RCI concerning the latest inspection 
the manufacturer, N, said: 
The diagnostic report revealed that there is indeed an issue with the vehicle's 
gearbox which will need to be repaired. While it is very likely that the gearbox issue 
has been exacerbated by the customer towing, in light of this diagnostic report and 
considering the ongoing dispute, N is willing to once again step outside its 
contractual obligation and look into Mr Ms request of taking back the vehicle.
When considering what is satisfactory quality goods should be durable, by that I 
mean they should be made to last a reasonable period of time. Neither RCI or N 
have provided any evidence that the gearbox issue has been exacerbated by Mr Ms 
towing. On the vehicle invoice I can see Mr M paid extra for the towbar package. As 
the vehicle was new and ordered from the manufacturer it seems reasonable to 
assume the manufacturer considers the fitting of a towbar to this particular car 
appropriate. It allowed the sale of the towbar package and fitted the towbar to the 
vehicle. It follows then that it would be reasonable to assume the vehicle and the 
gearbox would be suitable for towing without gearbox issues for a reasonable 
amount of time.
The gearbox has already been fixed/replaced twice, first in March 2021 and then 
again in September 2021. It now needs to be repaired a third time, with the mileage 
approximately 60,000. Without any evidence to support Ns statement that the 
gearbox issue was very likely exacerbated by Mr Ms towing it does appear there was 
an inherent problem with the car related to the gear box. This was a new car at the 
time Mr M acquired it and I wouldnt reasonably expect a gear box to fail twice within 
approximately 50,000 miles or three times within approximately 60,000 miles. So I 
think it quite likely there is an ongoing problem related to the gearbox and that it was 
present at the point of sale. Its usual to allow the dealer/manufacturer the opportunity 
to repair the vehicle. And the repair has been attempted twice and subsequently 
failed again. Subject to any further information I might receive Im minded to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
To bring this matter to a conclusion RCI has offered to take back the vehicle. Setting 
aside for a moment any charges for damage and excess mileage that Mr M may be 
liable for I consider it fair and reasonable that Mr M is allowed to return the vehicle. It 
has also agreed to return Mr Ms deposit.
I consider it fair and reasonable for the deposit to be returned but there is some 
confusion about the value of the deposit. Mr M has stated that RCI hasnt considered 
the part exchange value of his previous car in its calculation of the deposit. He said 
the total deposit he paid was £13,164.93 (£3,664.93 + £9,500 part exchange value) 
and that RCI had previously offered to return £8,664.93 (£13,15493 - £4,500 deposit 
contribution).
I looked at the paperwork for the vehicle sale and as there was some confusion about the 
deposit I outlined in detail in my provisional decision the cost of the vehicle and funds 
available. I concluded the deposit was £3,664.93. But that Mr M had also paid for an 
accessory pack. I went on to say:
On the invoice it states that Mr M received a cash back amount. Its possible Mr M 
may have forgotten about this in the passage of time since he acquired the vehicle. 
But Im satisfied the part exchange value was included in the deposit calculation and 
the cashback would impact the amount of deposit to return now. The actual deposit 
Mr M paid, which should be returned, is £3,664.93. When Mr M acquired the car he 
paid for an accessories pack which included the towbar. As Im minded to conclude 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale I consider it fair that he is not 
charged for this pack and that this amount be refunded.
Although there is a problem with the vehicle Mr M has had use of it throughout the 
duration of the finance agreement. I can see in its final response that RCI offered Mr 
M £2,000 as a gesture of goodwill due to the inconvenience caused during the time 
Mr M had the vehicle. When the complaint came to our investigator RCI said in light 
of it agreeing to return Mr Ms deposit it felt refunding Mr Ms four monthly finance 
payments wouldnt be justified as he was always kept mobile for the duration of the 
repairs, albeit not always in a like for like vehicle. It said furthermore, he received an 
abundance of goodwill offers both from the manufacturer and the dealership and had 
free of charge repairs carried out on his vehicle despite his violation of the terms and 
conditions of the Pan-European warranty contract (through failing to get the vehicle 
serviced at the correct times). Although I havent seen a copy of the final report RCI 
has said the issues at hand are related to the gear box, for which repairs have 
already been attempted. It doesnt appear the other repairs are related to the gear 
box.
As far as I can see Mr M was still inconvenienced by the continuing problems with 
the gear box which seem unrelated to the other repairs and the service history and 
which I think were present at the point of sale. I think its fair RCI should keep most 
payments but, subject to further information, it should refund the four monthly 
payments it originally offered, representing less than 10% of the total finance 
agreement, for the inconvenience caused to Mr M. I can see from the mileage of the 
vehicle that Mr M went over the mileage commitment within the finance agreement. 
As such he would normally be required to pay the excess mileage cost. Mr M has 
said his intention had been to purchase the vehicle at the conclusion of the 
agreement. He said the manufacturer states on its website If you do exceed your 
mileage allowance, rest assured, you will only be charged per mile if you decide to 
return the vehicle to RCI Financial Services.Mr M said he is not deciding to return the vehicle, it has been rejected due to a fault 
with manufacturing. I think Mr M is saying, in effect, that he shouldnt be liable for the 
excess mileage as he always intended to purchase the vehicle. RCI has said that the 
vehicle's mileage is 1.5 times more than the mileage commitment within the finance 
agreement, but it is willing to have the excess mileage cost waived provided that it 
wasnt required to refund any finance payments.
Im not disputing Mr Ms original intention to purchase the vehicle at the end of the 
agreement. However, he asked to return the vehicle three times, and RCI refused, 
which indicates to me that he wasnt satisfied with it. The first time he requested to 
return the vehicle in 2020 appears to be related to intermittent loss of power. The 
second and third times in March 2021 and September 2021 are related to the gear 
box issues. On the balance of probability I think it unlikely he wouldve wanted to 
purchase it after the first refusal, even more so after the second and third refusal.
I do believe though, subject to further information, as Mr M wasnt given the 
opportunity to return the vehicle in March 2021, when the first gear box was replaced 
at 46,633 miles or September 2021 I think it fair and reasonable he shouldnt be 
charged excess mileage costs after 46,633 miles.
Mr M has said the manufacturer had said it would factor in loss of earnings. We dont 
usually make a specific award for someones professional earnings as this complaint 
is brought in a personal capacity. I have factored in the inconvenience caused to Mr 
M in the refund of payments as set out above.
Mr M is also concerned that RCI can reduce the offer by whatever it deems to be 
appropriate based on reasonable wear and tear which leaves the costs open ended. I 
understand Mr Ms concerns but if he isnt happy with any wear and tear charges he 
can make a separate complaint, in the first instance to RCI.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision with additional commentary which, where 
appropriate, Ive responded to below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their detailed responses. Ive thought carefully about what 
each has said and having done so I believe my provisional decision still stands. I shall 
explain why below.
In its response to my provisional decision RCI said I was heavily biased in Mr Ms favour and 
failed to consider many aspects of the case. So Id first like to reassure RCI and Mr M that 
my decision is based on the evidence available to me and is independent without bias to 
either party. 
RCI disagreed with all aspects of my provisional decision. It said there were several 
discrepancies between what was established in my decision and what really transpired in 
relation to Mr M's vehicle.
Refuting the allegation that the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at the time of purchase.RCI has said that it provided this service with sufficient evidence confirming that Mr M's 
negligence resulted in the first two breakdowns of the vehicle. It said it was evident that the 
first two repairs namely the replacement of the turbo and the mass airflow sensor were 
required because of the customer's non-adherence to the vehicle is recommended service 
schedule and was not a result of a manufacturing defect. 
In my provisional decision my finding that the vehicle wasn't of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale was specifically in relation to the gearbox issues. It was not in relation to the 
turbo or the mass airflow sensor. And RCI hasn't provided any evidence that these latter 
issues are linked in any way to the gearbox issues. 
RCI went on to say that the manufacturers report relating to the vehicle's inspection in 
October 2022 is protected under legal privilege and it said although it wasn't able to disclose 
the full report it was indeed confirmed that the gearbox had experienced ongoing issues. 
This was a new car at the time Mr M acquired it and as I mentioned in my provisional 
decision I wouldnt reasonably expect a gear box to fail three times within approximately 
60,000 miles. In the absence of the report I must make my decision based on what I believe 
is likely to the case. And I remain of the opinion that there is likely an ongoing problem 
related to the gearbox and that it was present at the point of sale. 
RCI said in a bid to bring the case to an amicable conclusion it had offered to purchase the 
vehicle back from him. While I appreciate the sentiment behind RCI's offer as a goodwill 
gesture my decision is that the vehicle likely wasn't of satisfactory quality at the point of sale 
due to the gearbox issues and so I have framed the remedy on that basis. 
RCI also said that while the vehicle is indeed capable of towing it must do so in line with 
recommended towing limits. This is reasonable and I'm not disputing it. But Mr M has told 
this service that he hasn't done any towing with the car and RCI hasnt provided any 
evidence that inappropriate towing has caused the repeated issues with the gearbox.
Towbar accessories pack
RCI said the only invoice available to it showed the total value of Mr Ms deposit following a 
cashback was £3,664.93. But it said this invoice doesnt advise of any accessories pack and 
as such, it reserved the right to decline this payment request up until the point of this invoice 
is made available to it. Ive seen a copy of the invoice with the accessories pack which can 
be provided to RCI. But RCI went on to say that in its opinion Mr M has had fair use of these 
accessories since the time of purchase and requested a deduction be made. The 
accessories pack was part of the optional add-ons when Mr M ordered the car and as such 
is part of the car itself, so I dont think a separate charge for usage is fair and reasonable.  
Finance payments and excess mileage
RCI said the request to refund Mr Ms four monthly finance payments and only charge for the 
excess mileage up to 6,633 miles is unreasonable. It said it had no evidence that Mr M had 
requested to return the vehicle in 2020. It said even if it had done so the request wouldve 
been declined as the vehicle failed in 2020 because of Mr Ms negligence to service it 
properly. It said based on its records Mr M didnt request the rejection of the vehicle in 2021 
and that Mr M was pleased to accept several goodwill offers following the repairs. 
In his response to my provisional decision Mr M said while he doesn't remember the exact 
dates of the servicing he believes that the Covid-19 lockdowns did have an impact on his 
being able to get his car serviced on time and being able to get it booked in without delay. 
He said the dealership eventually closed down which led to the nearest dealership being a one hour drive away. Mr M said he tried to reject the car in 2020 and 2021. He said he 
wasn't aware of the specific legal position of rejecting vehicles until after the vehicle went to 
the dealership in September 2021. He said this was information subsequently provided to 
him in informal advice from a different dispute resolution service. 
As the dealership Mr M bought the car from is no longer operating its not possible to confirm 
what conversations Mr M had with it regarding rejecting the vehicle. He said he was never 
told to contact RCI. Ive no reason to dispute Mr Ms testimony. Given the repeated 
problems, irrespective of whether they were caused by the gearbox or due to not getting the 
car serviced, I think it more likely than not that Mr M requested to reject the car. But it should 
be said my reasons for finding the car of unsatisfactory quality are related to the gearbox 
only. 
RCI said that with the provisional decision what was required from it is that on top of the free 
services and other goodwill gestures Mr M received it would continue compensating him by 
refunding him with four monthly payments and waive the excess mileage charges while he 
continued to disrespect the terms and conditions of the vehicles warranty and was kept 
mobile throughout the repairs.
While I do understand that RCI has provided free repairs it appears to be conflating those 
repairs with the gearbox issues. The gearbox has been repaired/replaced twice already and 
needs to be repaired a third time. As I said in my provisional decision Mr M was 
inconvenienced by the continuing problems with the gearbox. RCI offered to compensate Mr 
M for the inconvenience caused with the refund of these payments. I still think its fair RCI 
should keep most payments, but it should refund the four monthly payments it originally 
offered. This only represents less than 10% of the total finance agreement and I consider it 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
RCI has also said that there is still an outstanding balloon payment towards the vehicle and 
considering the fact that Mr M has not made any further payments since the end of the 
agreement in October 2022 but kept on using the vehicle this means hes had six months of 
free motoring. As I have found that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
purchase with regards to the gearbox I dont believe Mr M should be penalised for the time 
taken in bringing his complaint to this service during this time. 
Mr M said he had a specific conversation with the dealership when he purchased the vehicle 
with regards to excess mileage. He said the nature of his work meant he had to travel to 
different work settings nationally and that this was also a family car. He said he was told by 
the dealership at the time that if he purchased the vehicle or took out another finance 
agreement with the manufacturer then excess mileage would not be an issue.
Mr M said his intention to purchase the vehicle at the end of the agreement remained 
despite requesting to reject the vehicle. I do understand what Mr M is saying but he said he 
requested to reject the car three times and had the business agreed on any of those 
occasions Mr M wouldve been required to pay excess mileage charges (and any charges 
related to damage to the vehicle) as part of fair usage. These charges were still a condition 
of the finance agreement that he signed, and he has driven a considerable distance over the 
40,000. So I think only being charged for 6,633 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Vehicle inspection
RCI said that before paying any sums to Mr M the vehicle will need to be subjected to an 
independent bodywork inspection which the manufacturer will pay for. It said this was 
necessary to ensure there are no bodywork damages to the vehicle that are not 
commensurate with its age and mileage. I understand that such an inspection would be part of the finance agreement. But I dont agree that refunds should be withheld subject to any 
damage charges. RCI should put things right as Ive outlined above and below, independent 
of the inspection outcome. 
Mr M has said that for him to walk away from this having to pay monies to RCI does not feel 
like a reasonable outcome. He said he would rather be offered no compensation and it be 
agreed that the matter is concluded with the car being returned to RCI, given he had already 
paid them £24k throughout the agreement which ended in November 2022.
I do understand Mr Ms frustration with this situation. But he has had fair use of the car, 
including long past the end of the finance agreement. Im not aware of the condition of the 
vehicle and it wouldnt be fair on RCI to accept the vehicle back without being able to inspect 
it for damages and to charge appropriately. Any charges that result as part of the inspection 
should be paid by Mr M separately. And if he wishes to dispute those charges he can raise a 
new complaint with RCI. 
Putting things right
To put things right RCI Financial Services Limited must:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr M  
both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr M four monthly payments to a total of £2,000.
3. Refund to Mr M the deposit of £3,664.93 and the cost of the accessories pack (inc. 
VAT), £1,431.36. A deduction can be made for the road fund licence.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Only charge excess mileage over 40,000 up to 46,633 miles.
6. Ensure that no adverse information about the agreement is recorded on Mr Cs credit 
file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and RCI Financial Services Limited must put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman