DRN-2274600
The complaint
Mr F complains that because of an error caused by Spires Independent Limited he 
received a larger income payment after his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) was set 
up, than he asked for. He further says that when he queried this, Spires Independent 
failed to make him properly aware of the tax implications of accepting that larger payment. 
He said had the implications been properly explained, and had he known it would 
increase his tax liability by so much, he wouldve taken the option to unwind the 
transaction.
What happened
Mr F consulted a financial adviser at Spires Independent because he wanted to 
transfer the benefits from his occupational pension scheme to a SIPP. £486,773.90 
was transferred to the SIPP on 21 December 2017. After transferring into the SIPP 
Mr F wanted to take his full tax-free cash (TFC) entitlement and an income payment 
to give him £250,000 net in total, to purchase a home.
Spires Independent treated Mr F as an insistent client because it advised him that it 
would be financially better for him to take his TFC and then a mortgage to fund the 
balance of his house purchase. It said he could then take drawdown payments from 
his SIPP to pay for the mortgage.
At the time of advice and transfer, Mr F was still working. At the time of transfer, Mr F 
was a high rate tax payer, paying 40% tax. Spires Independent recommended against 
Mr F taking a total net lump sum of £250,000, as after the tax-free cash, the rest of the 
payment would be subject to income tax at his highest marginal rate. It said the 
payment would push Mr Fs income into the additional tax rate of 45%.
In January 2018, the SIPP provider received the flexible benefits application from 
Spires Independent. This showed that Mr F wanted to take his maximum TFC lump 
sum, as well as a one-off income payment. However, no amount was specified for the 
one-off payment. The SIPP provider contacted Spires Independent to clarify how much 
should be paid to Mr F.
Spires Independent told the SIPP provider that Mr F would like £250,000 
net withdrawal, after the tax-free cash amount.
Based on this, on 25 January 2018, £118,009.73 in TFC was paid to Mr F as well as a
£250,000 net income payment. The SIPP provider paid £62,500 in tax to HMRC.
Mr Fs brother contacted Spires Independent after Mr F received the funds as he had 
received more than they anticipated. Mr F had provided authority for Spires Independent 
to deal directly with his brother. It became clear that there had been a mistake and Mr F 
had wanted a payment of £250,000 including his tax-free cash. Mr Fs brother was 
concerned the payment made would virtually wipe out Mr Fs pension fund.
Spires Independent told the SIPP provider about the error, and the SIPP provider 
offered to reverse the transaction and rectify the matter. However, after a discussion 
with Mr Fs brother on the phone, Mr F decided to keep the funds to use for his house 
purchase. Mr Fs brother said Mr F was finding it hard to find a house within his 
original budget.
Out of the £368,009.73 TFC and income payment Mr F received, Mr Fs brother said 
Mr F purchased a house in June 2018, which cost £270,500.00. In addition, he said, Mr 
F paid
£2,500 for the contents, £4,500 for a new boiler, £,5,000 in solicitor fees and stamp duty and
£7,500 for carpets and decorating.
Mr Fs brother said, in addition to the £486,773.90 transferred into the SIPP, his brother 
was also waiting for some money to be transferred in from an Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (AVC) scheme.
In February 2018, the SIPP providers sent Mr F a benefit crystallisation statement 
showing that £10,353.81 had been paid into his SIPP from the AVC. Mr F decided to take 
25% of this as TFC and the balance of £7,765.36 went into his SIPP drawdown fund.
The SIPP providers said that Mr F was sent a P60 in April 2018, showing the payments 
and the amount of tax paid. Mr F said he didnt receive this.
On 31 May 2018, Mr F closed his SIPP account and received a further £29,292.55 as 
an income payment. The SIPP provider deducted tax (at 40%) from the £48,970.55 in 
Mr Fs drawdown account, before making this payment.
Early in 2019, Mr F said he became aware that he was required to carry out a 
self- assessment tax return. At this stage he requested copies of payslips from 
the SIPP provider as he said they hadnt been received previously.
Having completed the online return, Mr F said he found that he owed HMRC a 
significant amount of money for unpaid tax, in the tax year 2017/18, arising from his 
pension pay outs.
By then, Mr F said he had already used the money hed received to pay for his house 
purchase and the costs arising from that. Mr F said he paid some of his outstanding tax 
bill from the money he had left over after the house purchase and associated costs, 
however he said there was still an amount outstanding, which he arranged with HMRC 
to pay over an extended period. As the tax bill was in excess of £78,590.40, he said it 
wasnt possible to pay this in one go.
Mr F complained to Spires Independent. It didnt uphold his complaint. So, he 
complained to this service. Mr F isnt complaining about the initial advice he received 
from Spires Independent. He accepts that the tax implications were discussed at this 
time. Hes complaining about the information he was given after the overpayment 
was made.
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint. She took the view that although it was not 
in dispute that Spires Independent had told Mr F about the tax implications of drawing an 
income on top of his TFC in the suitability report dated 31 August 2017, there were 
failings in the information Spires Independent provided Mr F with after the overpayment.
The investigator listened to the telephone call between Mr Fs brother and Spires Independent which took place on 30 January 2018  after the overpayment had 
been received. She concluded that the adviser shouldve done more to make sure 
the tax implications were understood.
She said, during that phone call, Mr Fs brother confirmed the TFC amount, plus 
£250,000 had been received. He asked the adviser how much was left in the pot, as Mr 
F was struggling to find a house within the budget hed initially set, so it might work out 
better for him to have the additional money now.
The adviser confirmed he didnt think there would be much left and did some rough 
working out. The adviser explained that the amount transferred in was £486,000  
around £120,000 (TFC) and £14,000 (in fees) was paid out, which left £352,000. He said 
that this figure should be multiplied by 0.6 to take into account 40% tax = £211,000. Mr 
Fs brother interrupted at that point and said, so theyll be virtually nothing. The adviser 
agreed with this.
Mr Fs brother then asked how the tax would be paid, to which the adviser said they 
just pay it to HMRC. Mr Fs brother then went on to confirm that as long as there was 
enough in the pot, Mr F wanted to keep the overpayment, so he could increase his 
house budget to £300,000 and put the remaining £70,000 in an ISA.
Our investigator concluded that during this telephone call it was clear Mr Fs brother 
didnt appreciate the way the tax would be dealt with for the transaction. She said whilst 
she recognised that Spires Independent was not acting as Mr Fs tax advisors or 
specialists, it was reasonable to expect them to make the tax implications involved 
clear.
She said it shouldve been evident to the adviser during the conversation that there 
would not be enough in Mr Fs pensions pot to pay the TFC, £250,000 and the tax due 
on it. And it was evident that Mr Fs brother had misunderstood the situation as he 
spoke of what his brother intended to do with the left-over funds. It was clear there was 
nothing left over, and there was a shortfall once the tax had been taken into account.
Our investigator said that Spires Independent shouldve clarified the tax position. She 
took the view that Mr F wouldnt have chosen to keep the £250,000 income payment, 
and wouldve had the transaction re-wound, had this been clarified. She thought Mr F 
wouldve kept to his original plans, and had the transaction re-processed as per his initial 
instructions. Had this happened, she thought the additional payment wouldve stayed 
within his SIPP until he planned to retire. At that point she thought Mr F wouldve been a 
basic rate tax payer and not had to pay the higher rate on the remaining funds.
So overall, our investigator thought that Spires Independent should put Mr F back into 
the position he wouldve been in, had the over payment not been made, by covering 
any additional tax he was charged over 20% on the amount of the over payment. She 
also thought that the additional interest and penalties charged by HMRC should also be 
covered. Further she thought Spires Independent should pay Mr F £250 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused to his retirement planning.
Spires Independent didnt accept our investigators view and asked for the case to 
be referred to an ombudsman for a decision. Spires Independent said, in summary:
Mr F was made aware at multiple points that after his TFC, tax would be 
payable at his marginal rate;Mr F was told clearly that Spires Independent wasnt responsible for calculating 
the tax payable because it would depend on when he took the payment, how much 
he took and his income at the time. Mr Fs brother was well aware of this and 
initially said that if he had received payslips from the SIPP provider, he wouldve 
sorted out the tax from the outset;
Mr Fs brother is financially savvy and is conversant with the tax system enough 
to identify the correct amount of tax to be paid;
A benefit crystallisation certificate was sent out in January 2018, which it has 
been accepted was received. It was not unreasonable, based on the 
conversations had, for Mr F to believe he would have a tax bill of £211,000;
Mr F received a letter dated 23 February 2018, from the SIPP provider telling 
him that an additional around £10,000 had been paid into his SIPP. He took his 
TFC, which was around £2,500. He was told that would make the total balance 
in his drawdown fund £48,970.55. It ought to have been clear that this was 
wrong, if the tax had been paid on the first income payment, because he had 
accepted during the phone call that there would be virtually nothing left.
Mr F was given the opportunity to unwind the transaction and was aware of 
the higher tax bill. Its not true that Mr F wouldve asked for the transaction to be 
unwound if he had known about the increased tax bill. He wanted to keep the 
money to buy a house.
The issue here is that Mr F used monies from his pension fund, which 
shouldve been paid to HMRC. Spires Independent should not be held 
responsible for this.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Fs complaint in September 2020. I said I was minded 
to uphold it, but as my reasons and the order for redress I was proposing to make were 
different from our investigators, I invited Spires Independent and Mr F to let me have any 
further representations they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr F, through his brother said, in summary:
hes disappointed that the ombudsman believed he should have been fully aware of 
the tax liability. He was unaware that anyone receiving more than £100,000 had to 
complete a self-assessment tax return. The Spires Financial Adviser shouldve been 
aware of this.
The tax position was queried at the time and no one mentioned only 20% tax had 
been taken. As no payslip was provided for either payment, the workings out could 
not be seen. And money was still to come in from the AVC, the amount of which was 
unknown.
Mr F is being penalised for this not being explained in a clear manner at the time.
Mr F didnt receive the payslips or the P60 and they have since found out it was 
company policy to send these by email only, not by post.
The company didnt have an email address for Mr F, so no payslips couldve been 
sent.
Money is still owed to HMRC, Mr F believes in the region of £5,360.
The figure of £250 compensation seems low for 20 months of hassle.
Spires Independent made no further representations.
This case now comes back to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, I have to make a 
decision about what I think is most likely to have happened  based on whats available.
Having considered all of Mr Fs representations, including those made in response to my 
provisional decision, I am still going to uphold Mr Fs complaint and make the order for 
redress that I set out in my provisional decision.  Ill explain why.
I think Spires Independent gave Mr F clear advice in the 2017 suitability report about the 
implications of taking his TFC and any income payment in excess of that. I think it was 
made clear to him that if he wanted to take a net payment of £250,000, the balance, after 
taking his TFC, would be taxed at his marginal rate of tax and his income would likely be 
pushed up into the 45% tax bracket.
The reason Mr F transferred into a SIPP and took his TFC and one-off income payment 
was to buy a house. Ive listened to a number of telephone calls between Mr Fs brother 
and Spires Independents adviser. Its clear that Mr F wanted to take enough money to 
purchase a house outright without a mortgage, irrespective of whether this was financially 
the best thing for him to do. Mr Fs brother recognised, as the adviser had advised, that 
financially it wouldve been more suitable for his brother to take a mortgage for the 
balance of his house purchase, after the TFC. But, Mr Fs brother said Mr F wanted to 
buy a property outright. He also said that his brother was struggling to find a house to suit 
his needs within his original budget.
It seems to me, having listened to these calls, that following the overpayment Mr F wanted 
to be able to increase the budget available to purchase a home. But a key consideration 
was being able to take the money and meet the tax liability from his SIPP.
Spires Independent clearly made a mistake in the way it communicated its calculations 
to Mr F on the phone. And in my view, this resulted in Mr Fs brother (and Mr F given his 
brother was acting as his representative) believing the overpayment (including the tax 
due) could be financed out of Mr Fs SIPP, with a bit left over.
Mr Fs brother had authority to act on his brothers behalf, and gave immediate 
instructions down the phone to confirm that his brother wanted to keep the overpayment 
hed received. Mr Fs brother spoke of believing in fate determining some situations. He 
mentioned how it would assist his brother if he could increase his house budget to 
£300,000.
From what Ive heard from the phone conversations between Mr Fs brother and Spires 
Independents adviser, it seems to me that Mr F was not so much worried about having 
money left in his pension pot, but, more about having enough money to buy his house and 
pay the tax due, arising from the income payment from the money in his SIPP. I say that, 
because in a later conversation, there was a discussion between Mr Fs brother and the 
adviser about him withdrawing the rest of the money in his SIPP to avoid paying the 
annual charges of keeping it open. And Mr F subsequently closed his SIPP account, 
withdrawing what was left in it, seemingly knowing he would have to pay tax at 40% on that.
Ive also taken into account that in February 2018, Mr F was sent correspondence that 
shouldve alerted him to the fact that he had more money in his SIPP than expected. Mr F 
said he didnt receive the payslips or the P60, but as far as I can see he likely did receive 
this letter. During the phone call with Spires Independent in January 2018, Mr Fs brother 
appeared to accept that there would be virtually nothing left after taking TFC and the 
income payment. And after taking TFC from the AVC transfer, only an additional 
£7,765.36 was added to his account. Mr F received the 25% tax free cash from his AVC, 
so it also wouldnt have been hard for him to work out that the 75% going into his SIPP 
account was less than £8,000. Yet the correspondence mentioned him having £48,970.55 
in his SIPP. I cant see that Mr F queried how he could possibly have another around 
£40,000 in his SIPP account, on top of that. So, I dont think I can fairly say that Mr F has 
lost out purely because Spires Independent gave him unclear inforamtion. 
Further, I also note that the SIPP provider said it sent Mr F a P60 in April 2018. Mr F says 
he didnt receive this P60, but our investigator found, in the case Mr F brought to us 
against the SIPP provider, where the outcome was not challenged by Mr F, that most 
likely it had been sent. So, I think it ought to have been apparent from the P60 that more 
tax was payable. But, even if the P60 or the payslips werent received which Mr Fs 
brother says they werent, because he said no email address was provided for Mr F, I 
think the Feburary 2018 correspondence should have flagged up the issue.
Mr F wouldve received this February 2018 letter, before closing his SIPP account and 
withdrawing all the monies in May 2018. Mr F was paid another £29,292.55 in May 2018,  
when he closed his SIPP account. This money couldve been used to meet or go towards 
his tax liability instead. So, I think Mr F ought to have understood when closing his SIPP 
account, that there was a further tax liability still to be met.
I note this correspondence was also sent prior to him completing on his house, when it 
may or may not have still been open to him to withdraw from the purchase and purchase 
a cheaper property.
So, although I consider that Spires Independent did something wrong, I have to go on 
and consider what, more likely than not, Mr F wouldve done if he had been given 
clearer information by Spires Independent. 
Had Mr F been given correct information following the overpayment, I think it more 
likely that Mr F wouldve taken a total income payment, including the TFC, of £300,000 
net, rather than the £250,000 net he initially planned to take. I say this taking into 
account that he was having trouble finding a house within budget, and subsequently, it 
seems, purchased a house costing around £270,500 which appeared to need some 
work based on the other costs mentioned. Even if he had to pay tax at 45% on the 
balance of the £300,000 that was not TFC (around £181,991), it seems to me he 
wouldve been able to cover the income payment and the tax from his SIPP, with some 
money left in his SIPP, which appeared to be his main objective.
So, I think a fair order for redress, based on what I consider Mr F wouldve done if given 
correct information, is as set out below.
In reaching this conclusion, I have taken into account that Mr Fs brother considers that 
an award of £250 for 20 months of hassle seems inappropriate, in the circumstances. I am sorry he sees it this way. Ive assessed this to be a fair and reasonable amount 
given that I do not consider that I can fairly hold Spires Independent wholly responsible 
for what went wrong here. And the award is commensurate with other awards of this 
type made by this service.
Fair compensation
I make the following order for redress to put Mr F back in the situation I think he wouldve 
been in had Spires Independent given Mr F correct information about the tax situation 
following the overpayment.
I think the transaction wouldve been unwound and altogether Mr F wouldve taken a 
net payment of £300,000 in total on 25 January 2018, including his TFC, so that he 
could increase the budget he had to buy a home.
I think by the time he closed his SIPP account in May 2018, he ought to have been 
aware that he had a tax liability to settle from the January 2018 payment and was not 
entitled to take the balance in his SIPP account as an income payment for his own 
purposes.
Spires Independent therefore should:
a)Calculate the amount of tax Mr F has had to pay as a result of taking his TFC and
£250,000 net as an income payment on 25 January 2018.
b) Calculate the amount of tax Mr F wouldve been liable to pay HMRC if Mr 
F had taken £300,000 net, as an income payment, including his tax-free 
cash of £118,009.73 on 25 January 2018.
c) Calculate the difference between a) and b) = c).
d) Spires Independent should pay c) direct to HMRC to cover the additional tax 
liability Mr F has had to pay because of the misinformation provided by Spires 
Independent, unless Mr F has already paid his tax liability in relation to the 25 
January 2018 income payment to HMRC in full or the balance owing is less 
than c). But, if, for whatever reason, HMRC is not able to accept c) in full or 
part direct from Spires Independent, it should pay it, or the balance of it, to Mr 
F.
e) Spires Independent should meet proportionately any additional interest and 
penalties charged by HMRC in respect of the tax calculated as at c) above, 
from imposition of the charges and interest to the date of settlement. Spires 
Independent should pay this directly to HMRC on Mr Fs behalf, unless Mr F 
has already paid this to HMRC, or for whatever reason, HMRC is not able to 
accept this direct from Spires Independent. If it cant be paid direct to HMRC, it 
should be paid to Mr F.
f) Pay Mr F £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to his 
retirement planning.
Spires Independent should provide Mr F with details of how it has calculated his loss 
in a clear and simple format.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint and order Spires Independent to pay him fair compensation 
as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman