DRN-1808232
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) didnt refund him 
the payments he had made under his hire purchase agreement (HPA) after he rejected his 
car.  
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr F acquired a car through a HPA with BMWFS in August 2019. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), BMWFS can be 
held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. In this case 
the car was only a few months old and had been driven around 6,000 miles at 
acquisition and so it would be reasonable that Mr F would expect it to be free from 
faults. However, Mr F said he experienced issues with the onboard control unit and 
mobile phone connection. Given the issues with the car and when these arose, I find 
that BMWFS acted fairly by allowing Mr F to reject the car.
Following the return of the car in February 2020, BMWFS cancelled Mr Fs HPA with 
nothing further owing and returned his deposit. In circumstances when a car is 
rejected due to it not being of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, these are the 
actions we would expect to be taken. 
Mr F says that the payments he made while in possession of the car should also be 
refunded due to the issues he experienced. While he experienced issues with the 
car, he was able to continue to drive it until it was returned. I understand that he had 
to return the car on multiple occasions because of the problems and that he had to 
spend time trying to get the issues addressed, but on balance, I think that by 
refunding the deposit and cancelling the HPA BMWFS has done enough.
I say this because Mr F had fair use of the car while it was in his possession. His 
HPA set an annual mileage of 8,000 mile and I can see from the service invoice 
dated 28 November 2019, the cars mileage was 13,274. This means that Mr F had 
driven over 7,000 miles in the first three months. I do not have the final mileage 
amount but BMWFS has confirmed that no charges were made for excess mileage. 
Given the use Mr F was able to have and the mileage covered I do not find in this 
case that BMWFS is required to refund him his monthly payments.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman