DRN-3973647
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) wouldnt replace an undamaged 
headlight on his car when he claimed on his commercial car insurance policy following an 
accident.
What happened
Mr P says his car was hit by another car, badly damaging its bumper, wing and one of its 
headlights. Aviva accepted Mr Ps claim and arranged for his car to be repaired.
Although only one headlight was damaged in the accident, Mr P wants Aviva to replace them 
both. Otherwise, Mr P says his car will look odd at the front due to the mismatched 
headlights  one being old and the other new. He says Aviva has a legal obligation to put his 
car back in the condition it was in before the accident.
Aviva says it wont replace both headlights. It says Mr Ps insurance doesnt cover replacing 
parts that are in perfect working order and not damaged. Aviva acknowledged Mr Ps 
concerns about his cars appearance but said as long as Mr Ps car was safe to drive it 
would only repair damaged items. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr P complained to us. The investigator who looked at Mr Ps 
complaint didnt uphold it. He said Aviva was only liable to repair the accident-related 
damage to Mr Ps car and didnt need to replace a working part unless there was a safety 
requirement.
Mr P disagrees. He says his car will have one faded headlight and one non-faded headlight 
if Aviva doesnt replace both of them. So Mr Ps complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ps car insurance policy says, among other things, if his car is damaged Aviva will pay for 
it to be repaired. So Avivas obligation is limited to paying for repairs to the parts of Mr Ps 
car that were damaged in the accident. 
Theres no dispute here that the headlight Mr P wants Aviva to replace wasnt damaged in 
the accident. While I understand Mr Ps concerns about the appearance of his car following 
the repairs, his car insurance policy doesnt entitle him to have his undamaged headlight 
replaced. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably and in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps car insurance policy in refusing to replace his 
undamaged car headlight.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman