DRN-1125158
 
Complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank plc acted irresponsibly when it refused to grant him an 
arranged overdraft but allowed him to have an unarranged overdraft on his current account.
Background
Mr W had a current account with HSBC. He asked it to grant him an arranged overdraft or a 
debt consolidation loan for the purpose of refinancing outstanding debts. HSBC declined his 
request. 
He complained to HSBC about this. Before he received the response to his complaint he 
made several cash withdrawals from his account. As a result his account became overdrawn 
without any arranged overdraft. At the end of the month when his salary was credited to his 
account the overdrawn balance was cleared.  
The following month Mr W again made a series of cash withdrawals from his account 
creating a new unarranged overdraft. But, his salary wasnt credited to his account at the 
end of the month. HSBC has not permitted any further withdrawals from the account which 
remains overdrawn. HSBC applied fees and charges of £180 to the account for the 
unarranged overdraft.
Mr W says that HSBC has contacted him on numerous occasions by telephone, including in 
the evenings and when he was at work, about the unarranged overdraft. He says this has 
caused him considerable stress. 
Mr W says that he shouldnt have to pay back the unarranged overdraft. He says that HSBC 
has been underhand by refusing to grant him an arranged overdraft but then allowing him to 
use an unarranged overdraft. He says that the unarranged overdraft attracts higher fees and 
charges. He says that HSBC wouldnt have permitted him to overdraw on his account prior 
to this.
HSBC investigated his complaint. It said that it had declined his request for an arranged 
overdraft because he failed its credit score. It also said that it had considered information 
from credit reference agencies. It suggested that Mr W should speak to the retailers he had 
credit facilities with and put arrangements in place to help repay the debts due to them. 
HSBC told Mr W that he should repay the money that he owed it including the fees and 
charges. It said that it wouldnt apply any further charges to the account and that it would 
refer Mr W to its financial guidance team who would help him to put a repayment plan in 
place.
Mr W was unhappy with this response and so he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. He said that it was a matter for HSBCs own 
commercial judgement whether to grant Mr W lending facilities. In his view it had not acted 
unfairly when it declined his request for an arranged overdraft. Mr W did not agree with our investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account. They say that HSBC may agree to 
an overdraft on an account if it thinks that the customer can afford it. I can see that HSBC 
used its usual procedures to assess whether Mr W could afford the overdraft but he failed 
the credit score. HSBC also considered information that it had obtained from credit reference 
agencies. Having done so, it decided that Mr W could not afford the overdraft that he had 
requested. I can see that it applied its usual criteria when assessing his application and it 
concluded that he couldnt afford the amount that he was requesting. So I dont think that it 
did anything wrong by declining his request.
Ive also considered what Mr W has told us about the unarranged overdraft. I can 
understand why he thinks that HSBC shouldnt have permitted an unarranged overdraft in 
circumstances where it had refused to grant him an arranged overdraft. The terms and 
conditions for the account state that HSBC can grant an unarranged overdraft:
where, without you asking in advance and in addition to any arranged overdraft, we 
let you borrow for a particular payment or to cover an amount weve taken out of your 
account (e.g. a charge).
Mr W says that he couldnt have been overdrawn by even £5 before this happened. But, I 
can see that although he may not have done this before, it was always the case that he 
could have borrowed money without having a prior arrangement in place.
Ive also considered the point that Mr W has made when he says that HSBC shouldnt have 
allowed his account to be overdrawn when it had already decided that it shouldnt grant him 
an arranged overdraft. HSBC says that it made this decision based on a number of reasons 
and on an individual basis. Ive thought about that. I can see that the amount of the 
unarranged overdraft was considerably less than the amount that Mr W had sought by way 
of arranged overdraft. I can also see that, up to this point, Mr Ws salary was credited to the 
account each month. HSBCs terms and conditions say that an unarranged overdraft has to 
be cleared within 31 days. And, it is the case that the initial unarranged overdraft was 
cleared within this time period. So, I dont think that HSBC did anything wrong when it 
permitted the unarranged overdraft.  
Ive also looked at what Mr W has told us about how the unarranged overdraft came about. 
He says that because he hadnt heard back from HSBC about his complaint, on a whim, he 
made cash withdrawals to see if his overdraft had been approved. He says he used the cash 
to repay debts that he owed. Ive thought about what Mr W has said here. I can see that he 
did make several cash withdrawals before he got a response to his complaint. But, I can also 
see that he made further cash withdrawals after he got that response. The unarranged 
overdraft was then cleared at the end of the month when his salary was credited. But, the 
following month Mr W again made a series of cash withdrawals creating a further 
unarranged overdraft. At that stage he knew that his complaint had not been upheld and that 
HSBC was not willing to grant him an arranged overdraft. I can also see that his salary was 
not credited to his account at the end of the month, nor subsequently. So, on balance, I think 
that Mr W knew that he was creating an unarranged overdraft and I dont agree with him that 
he shouldnt have to pay it back.Ive considered whether Mr W should have to pay the charges that were applied to his 
account. In its terms and conditions, HSBC included details of the charges that would apply 
where a customer borrowed money without a prior arrangement. So, Mr W had been 
informed about those charges and HSBC didnt do anything wrong when it applied the 
charges to his account. Given this, I dont believe they need to be waived. 
Mr W says that he has been experiencing considerable stress as a result of what has 
happened.  Hes mentioned calls hes received from the Bank when it was seeking 
repayment of the unarranged overdraft.  I understand Mr W was upset by these calls but the 
bank isnt obliged to put things on hold whilst the matter is with us. I can see that HSBC has 
referred Mr W to its financial guidance team so that it can assist him with budget planning.  
In these circumstances, I would expect HSBCs financial guidance team to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in discussing his situation and agreeing a repayment plan with 
him. I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman