DRN-3947737
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complained that their escape of water claim was unfairly declined by AXA 
Insurance UK Plc (AXA) under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D made a claim on their policy when they noticed water damage on the wooden 
flooring and floor rising of their property. Damage was present in the hallway which was 
adjacent to the propertys main bathroom and an ensuite bathroom. Prior to the leak Mr and 
Mrs D reported that their shower had stopped working and made a claim under their shower 
warranty to have some repairs carried out.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim and review the damage. AXA appointed 
two independent experts to assess the source of the leak and report on what they 
discovered. On reviewing these reports, AXA decided to decline the claim. It concluded the 
escape of water was caused due to the failure or lack of grout and/or sealant, which it said 
was excluded from the policy.
Mr and Mrs D commissioned their own plumber to report on the cause of the leak, which led 
them to conclude their claim had been unfairly declined. Mr and Mrs D said the leak was 
caused by a connection failure of the taps supplying water to the sink in one bathroom and 
due to a failed water supply to the toilet in the other bathroom. They would like their claim 
settled. Mr and Mrs D said they were unhappy with the overall management of the claim.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought the reports provided by 
AXA carried more weight, so thought AXA had acted reasonably in relying on these when 
making its decision. He thought AXA had declined the claim fairly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. He thought the £200 compensation was fair for the problems AXA 
caused in managing the claim. Mr and Mrs D disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA acknowledged that it couldve managed the claim better and has paid £200 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused. Having reviewed 
the timeline of the claim and looked at what has happened, I cant say this is unreasonable. I 
think AXA has taken a fair approach to this claim. To be confident in its decision, it didnt rely 
on just one expert to review the cause of the leak  it asked for a second opinion with 
another expert. I think this was a sensible approach as Mr and Mrs D had disagreed with the 
findings.
I can see AXA has reviewed the evidence that Mr and Mrs D provided, and it has responded 
with its conclusions. Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs D dont agree with the decision AXA has 
made. I dont think AXA has managed the process poorly. It has followed a sensible process 
and has reached its decision based on the evidence it gathered. Therefore, Im not going to 
recommend any further compensation.
Ive also considered AXAs decision to decline the claim. In reviewing the terms and 
conditions, I can see there is a general exclusion in the policy for damage caused by 
gradual deterioration / maintenance. The policy defines this as any loss or damage caused 
by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot 
or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of your 
buildings and its contents. Therefore, if AXA has provided sufficient evidence that the 
damage was caused by wear and tear, then Im likely to say it has been fair in declining the 
claim.
I find the reports provided by AXAs experts to be persuasive. In particular, the one report 
has been produced after carrying out extensive testing at the property. The test outcomes 
are well articulated and supported. Both reports provide the same conclusion that the 
shower seals were the main cause of the leak. The seals had deteriorated with wear and 
tear.
I appreciate the efforts Mr and Mrs D made in commissioning a report from their own 
plumber. The report provides a contradictory viewpoint  the plumber didnt think the seals 
were the cause of the leak. The plumber said on removal of the toilet, it was apparent the 
leak was from there. There was a large amount of water staining down the back of the pan 
and the wooden floor under the pan had disintegrated enough for the toilet to no longer sit 
flush. The inlet pipe from the cistern had recently been siliconed into the back of the pan.
I can see AXA did consider this report from the plumber, as they have shown pictorially how 
the leak from the toilet couldnt have caused the issues in Mr and Mrs Ds hallway. So, whilst 
Im not saying the toilet wasnt leaking, having reviewed AXAs viewpoint on this, I think AXA 
has fairly shown it wasnt the main cause of the damage.
I have also considered what Mr and Mrs D said that there was a connection failure of the 
taps supplying water to the sink. However, I can see AXA also considered this and tested 
this. AXA have photographed the pipework leading to the sink. Again, I think AXAs detailed 
comments in relation to this point is persuasive. There isnt any evidence this was the cause 
of the leak.
Therefore, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I think the reports provided by AXAs 
contractors carry more weight. The testing and depth of analysis used is far greater. I think 
AXA has fairly considered the points raised by Mr and Mrs D and has provided reasonable 
explanations as to why it doesnt agree. I think AXA has reached a reasonable outcome for 
this claim based on all the evidence that has been provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require AXA Insurance UK Plc 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman