DRN-4050292
The complaint
Mr T complains that ReAssure Limited failed to pay him his pension benefits within a 
reasonable period of time.
What happened
Mr T held pension benefits with ReAssure. In May 2022 he sent an email to ReAssure to ask 
that his pension benefits be paid to him as a single lump sum payment. That payment wasnt 
completed until around seven weeks later, by which time Mr T says the value of his pension 
savings had fallen by around £1,000.
When Mr T first complained to ReAssure it agreed that a part of the process could have 
been completed more quickly. So it paid Mr T £100 for the inconvenience hed been caused. 
Unhappy with that response, Mr T brought his complaint to us.
Mr Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that generally 
ReAssure had acted as it should have when processing Mr Ts payment request. But he did 
think that a short delay of four days had been caused by ReAssure. So he asked ReAssure 
to look into whether that delay had caused Mr T to lose out. The investigator thought that the 
payment ReAssure had made to Mr T for the inconvenience hed been caused was 
reasonable.
ReAssure said that the delay meant that Mr Ts pension payment was £16.20 less than it 
would have been had it been paid four days earlier. It agreed to pay that amount to Mr T. But 
Mr T didnt accept the investigators assessment. He thought that the delay ReAssure had 
caused was much longer, and so the compensation needed to be higher. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr T and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The payment of Mr Ts pension benefits took around seven weeks from the initial request 
being sent to ReAssure to the payment being received by Mr T. I share Mr Ts conclusion 
that the time taken for the payment to be made is longer than might normally be considered 
to be industry best practice. But, as I will now go on to explain, by looking at each of the 
steps within the processing timescale, I share our investigators conclusions that much of 
that delay wasnt caused by something that ReAssure did wrong.
ReAssure received Mr Ts initial request on 8 May 2022. It responded to that request eight 
working days later by sending Mr T a questionnaire to ensure that he was aware of the risks 
associated with his choice. ReAssure says that it was required to gather that information by 
the regulator.
Mr T spoke with ReAssure by telephone on 23 May, and completed the risk questionnaire 
the following day. ReAssure received Mr Ts completed questionnaire on 25 May. Two days 
later ReAssure issued Mr T with the paperwork he needed to complete in order to take his 
pension benefits. Mr T signed that application form on 1 June, but it wasnt received by 
ReAssure until 8 June.
The application form had asked Mr T to provide evidence of his bank account, to which the 
payment would be made, either in the form of a bank statement, or a cancelled cheque or 
paying in slip. On 13 June Reassure left a voicemail for Mr T to advise him that information 
was still outstanding, and it followed up that request by email the following day. Mr T spoke 
with ReAssure about its request on 16 June, and his bank statement was received by 
ReAssure on 21 June. Mr Ts pension benefits were paid to him on 28 June 2022.
Ive looked carefully at each of the steps in the timeline above, and in particular those that 
required some action from ReAssure. I think it is reasonable that a firm be allowed a short 
period of time at each stage of the process for it to complete its processing activities. And 
looking at what ReAssure did each time I cannot conclude that any stage was unduly 
delayed by a lack of action from ReAssure.
I can understand Mr Ts disappointment that each stage of the process required forms and 
information to be sent between the parties by post. That naturally adds some delays into the 
process that might not have occurred if the information had been transferred electronically. 
But it isnt for me to dictate how ReAssure should define its processes. It is entirely 
reasonable for a firm to require physical copies of paperwork and evidence when dealing 
with requests of this nature. So I cannot reasonably conclude that the need for information to 
be sent by post caused inappropriate delays to the process.
ReAssure has said that it could have dealt with Mr Ts request more efficiently when he 
called on 23 May. It says that it could have taken a verbal completion of the risk 
questionnaire during that call and immediately dispatched the application form to Mr T. And 
so that would have meant ReAssure sending the application form to Mr T four days earlier 
than it did. So I will be asking ReAssure to compensate Mr T for that delay.But other than the delay I have explained above, I dont think that ReAssure unreasonably 
delayed the processing of Mr Ts request. Instead I can see that there was a delay of five 
days before ReAssure received the risk questionnaire. And there was a further delay of 
12 days between ReAssure issuing the application form and receiving it back from Mr T. 
I accept that Mr T had signed the application form 7 days before it arrived with ReAssure. 
I dont know whether any delay was due to a delay in Mr T posting the form, or delays 
caused by the postal system. But in either event I dont think I can reasonably conclude the 
delay was caused by ReAssure. And a further delay was caused by Mr T not providing the 
evidence of his bank account as had been requested by ReAssure as part of its application 
paperwork.
As I said earlier, ReAssure has already paid Mr T £100 for the inconvenience he was caused 
by its failure to deal with the risk questionnaire during his phone call on 23 May. I think that 
compensation is reasonable and in line with what I would expect in circumstances similar to 
these. So I dont think ReAssure needs to pay Mr T anything further in that regard.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr T. But I think factors outside the 
control of ReAssure, either in the form of postal delays, or the time taken by Mr T to 
complete the necessary paperwork, contributed to the time taken for the payment to be 
made. With the exception of the short period identified above, I dont think ReAssure took an 
unreasonable amount of time to complete its processing activities on Mr Ts request.
Putting things right
ReAssure has calculated that, had Mr Ts pension savings been paid to him four days 
earlier, he would have received an additional £16.20. ReAssure should pay that sum to Mr T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ts complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman