DRN-1367183
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 
1996 and 2003. Bank of Scotland said it didn't mis-sell the PPI, but offered to refund some of 
the commission and profit share it received. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. So I've been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons. 
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this. This 
is because they completed a separate application form for the PPI after completing their 
mortgage application.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong 
 as it wouldve left their sick pay and savings available for other things for at least a year  
rather than using this to pay their mortgage. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
S.
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because it got a 
high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should 
have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt tell Mr and Mrs S, that 
was unfair. To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back the amount 
of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S has said  including what theyve said about 
one of them signing the 1996 mortgage application to indicate they wanted PPI and the 
other signing to say that they didn't. But these points dont change my decision. The PPI 
application was completed separately some time later. So it seems likely that Mr and Mrs S 
had time to think about this before making their final decision on whether to buy it. And I've 
not seen anything that convinces me they were made to think they had to have it. 
What the business needs to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank of Scotland should also pay back to Mr 
and Mrs S any extra interest they paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bank of 
Scotland should also pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax 
if they don't pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman