DRN-2645419
The complaint
Mr P complains that Mortgage Express (MEx) wont sell one of his properties, and use the
excess from that sale, after the mortgage is redeemed, to reduce his overall debt to it.
What happened
Mr P has a number of rental properties, mortgaged through MEx. He said that MEx had
reported a default for one of these properties. And, although it had planned to sell another of
his properties and use the funds to reduce his overall debt with it, MEx had recently said it
didnt want to be involved in the sale, so it wouldnt be using the funds in this way, or at all.
This case does not deal with Mr Ps complaint about the appointment of a receiver to
manage some of his properties.
MEx said that whenever a property is repossessed, thats recorded as a default. It said that
was something it couldnt manually control. It didnt think this was defamatory. It has now
agreed to backdate this new default to 2012, which means this will drop off Mr Ps credit file.
I understand that Mr P is no longer concerned about this.
MEx said that it had been asked for a redemption statement on one of Mr Ps properties,
which he was intending to sell. MEx said that if Mr P was selling this property, it wanted him
to pay all the proceeds to it, so it could use its right to consolidate. That would mean it would
use any money not required to pay off the debt for this property, to reduce the debts on Mr
Ps other properties.
But then Mr Ps solicitors said there were second charges over the property Mr P planned to
sell. The companies which held those second charges were in administration. Mr P says that
the companies arent live so he didnt think he could just clear the charges.
Mr P and his solicitors have said that they dont want to apply to have these charges
removed. Instead, they suggest that MEx sells the property, because MEx, as the mortgage
holder, can overreach these charges, and sell the property with clear title. Mr P wants MEx
to then tell the other creditors that there are no funds available from the sale, because they
would all be used to clear the mortgage debt on this property, and reduce the debts on his
other properties.
MEx doesnt want to do this. It has said it wont involve itself in the sale of this property, and
if Mr P sells, it wont demand all the net proceeds from the sale are paid to it. It says Mr P
only has to pay to redeem the mortgage on this property if he wants to sell it. Then, if he
wants to, he can pay it the rest of the proceeds from the sale to reduce his other debts, once
the charges have been dealt with.
MEx says that whilst the companies holding these charges are in administration, that doesnt
mean that no one wants Mr P to pay back the money which these charges are supposed to
protect. The administrators may want to recover monies owed under those charges. So MEx
has said it wasnt prepared to involve itself in the sale, because it would be putting itself at
risk of litigation. And it felt that at least one of the relevant administrators had already shown
it had a considerable appetite for litigation.
Mr P says that the easiest solution for this property is for MEx to sell the property as the
mortgage holder. He said MEx has done this before, with another property he owned. He
didnt understand why MEx did this in the past, and sold a property that he said also had a
second charge, but wouldnt do it now. He said that if hed known that MEx wouldnt exercise
its right to sell his property, then he wouldve sold more of his portfolio earlier. He said hed
lost money on the properties now.
MEx said that one property had been sold a few years ago. And another had only recently
been sold. MEx has sent us some details of this recent sale, but it objected to our service
considering this sale, as it happened after Mr P complained.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that MEx had found
that there were other charges on the property, and if it sold this then used the money to
reduce Mr Ps overall debt, it would be at risk of being pursued for money under the second
charges. Mr P has suggested that he could give an undertaking to pay these charges if they
were called in, then indemnify himself from this risk, but our investigator felt it was fair to
allow MEx to assess for itself whether it wanted to take this risk on. It had said it didnt want
to, and it wasnt going ahead with the sale. It said Mr P could sell the property himself, and
use any profit to pay it or other debts. Our investigator thought that was fair.
Mr P didnt agree. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came
to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr P says that MEx has previously insisted that it was going to enforce its right to
consolidate whenever he sold a property. So he says its misled him about that.
I think its important to be clear on what Mr P is complaining about in this case. Hes
complaining about how MEx has addressed the sale of this one property.
What Mr P wants is for the sale of this property to be unencumbered by the second 
charges. He wants MEx to carry out the sale, because if it does so, then it takes on 
responsibility for those charges, rather than his solicitors. And it was when MEx said 
it wouldnt do so, that Mr P complained. So I think the main focus of Mr Ps complaint 
is that MEx wont take over this sale.
I think its clear from Mr Ps own description of events that MEx hadnt intended to 
sell the property itself. Mr P was exploring a possible sale. His solicitors discovered 
the second charges on the property, and they then asked MEx if it would sell the 
property instead. This suggestion was made by his solicitors, and MEx has said no. I 
dont think that Mr P was misled about this.
MEx did say, when Mr P first told it about the sale, that it wanted Mr P to pay all the 
net proceeds of the sale to it, so it could reduce his other debts. Its not clear, on the 
evidence I have, whether this was because MEx was intending to rely on a right to 
consolidate, or simply because Mr P had said he wanted to do this. But whatever the 
reason for MEx requesting the full net proceeds of sale, it seems as if MEx had then 
either overlooked, or wasnt aware, that there were other charges on the property. 
MExs internal notes say Mr Ps solicitors werent aware of this either until the sale was agreed. But MEx does now know about the other charges, and it says it wont 
sell the property for Mr P.
Its not unreasonable for MEx to say it doesnt want to sell this property for Mr P. 
Other companies have an interest in the property, in the form of charges over it. 
Although MEx may be able to overreach those to achieve a sale, it would still have 
used extra funds, over and above those required to clear the debt for this property, to 
reduce lending on the other properties in Mr Ps portfolio.
Mr P says he could give MEx an undertaking that hed pay these charges. But its still 
MEx that would be running the risk of administrators pursuing it for the money it has 
used elsewhere.
MEx says it has identified what it considers to be a significant legal risk. If MEx 
chooses not to run that risk, then thats a decision for it to take. I dont think its 
obliged to run that risk, if it doesnt want to.
Its not unfair or unreasonable for MEx to say that it wont sell this property. It has 
said Mr P can sell this property himself if he wants to.
This complaint has looked at MExs approach to a specific sale that Mr P proposed. 
And I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Mr P wants our service to compare what MEx has said about this sale, with whats 
happened in a previous sale. I dont think that our service can consider the wider 
complaint that Mr P would now like to make, because I dont think thats the 
complaint that Mr P originally made to MEx. Our service would expect MEx to have 
an opportunity to consider this first.
If Mr P now wants to complain that MEx has previously given him to understand that 
it will always insist on every penny of net sale proceeds being used to pay off his 
debts with MEx, but no longer proposes to do that, then he can make that complaint 
to MEx in the first instance.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
MEx said it agreed with my provisional decision. Mr P sent a detailed reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P said that, in summary, he didnt understand how this complaint couldnt be upheld, 
because he felt it was a clear question of whether the lender acted correctly previously or 
whether the lender is acting correctly now. Mr P said he felt it was implied in my provisional 
decision that the lender was wrong previously, and if so, I needed to make that opinion clear. 
Mr P also said that if I thought what MEx had now done was right, then it must be implied 
that MEx acted unlawfully previously.
But I havent said either of those things. Ive said that I dont think that MEx has made a 
mistake now, by deciding it wont sell this property for Mr P. Thats what he complained to 
MEx about, and thats the complaint it responded to. 
Mr P has made a series of allegations about what MEx previously said to him, about how it 
would proceed on any sale, which Mr P now argues has created an estoppel. When this complaint came to me, I could see that whilst our service was investigating, MEx 
had been asked about earlier sales, and earlier representations it made to Mr P. MEx said 
that this complaint was about the sale in 2020, and it objected to earlier sales being taken 
into account. 
So I looked at Mr Ps original complaint. I know Mr P says he never saw this. I understand 
that it was made on a call to MEx. And MEx has shown us its contemporaneous notes of the 
call Mr P had where this complaint was lodged.
Although Mr P has argued strongly that the issue of MExs previous representations about 
how it would proceed on sale was always the core of his complaint, Im unable to see that 
this issue was raised with MEx before the complaint came to us. 
I know Mr P says now that MEx told him it would always act to enforce its right to 
consolidate, and he thinks its going back on what it said about that. But, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I havent been able to see that Mr P has given MEx a chance to 
consider that complaint. And I would expect MEx to have a chance to consider and respond 
to that complaint before its brought to our service. Without MEx having had a chance to 
consider this issue, Im not able to consider it as part of this complaint. Mr P can now make 
that complaint to MEx if he wishes to.
Mr P then set out a number of points of detail on his case. Mr Ps representations include a 
number of points, many of which I am clear that I am not able to consider as part of this 
complaint. There are some concerns though that I may be able to clear up for Mr P, so Ive 
addressed those where Im able to.
Mr P has repeatedly suggested that MEx took its decisions without the benefit of any legal 
advice. He said that it would not refer his concerns to legal experts unless and until he 
complained. Even then, Mr P says, he has nothing to confirm legal advice was actually 
sought. 
But I can see in an email chain between MEx and Mr Ps solicitor, discussing Mr Ps request 
that MEx repossess the property and sell it, that MEx repeatedly referred to its intention to 
seek legal advice, and then to the decisions made by its legal advisors. Whilst nothing in this 
complaint appears to me to turn on whether MEx took legal advice or not, it appears to have 
told Mr Ps representatives repeatedly that it had. MEx doesnt have to facilitate a direct 
conversation between Mr P and its legal advisors, or directly between Mr Ps legal advisors 
and those advising MEx.
Mr P also said that MEx shouldve been well aware of the other charges over the property he 
was proposing to sell. My understanding, from the documents I have seen, is that when MEx 
initially envisaged it would take all the proceeds of this sale, and use some against the debts 
Mr P has for other properties in his portfolio, it wasnt aware of the other charges on this 
property, and the additional complications they would cause in any sale. 
Mr P said that the reason he was concerned to make sure that MEx made the sale was 
because one of the two charges was in favour of a dissolved company, and without a 
decent mechanism to over-reach or similar that was agreed by all parties the property could 
not have the dissolved charge removed. Mr P feared Id overlooked that one of the 
companies had been dissolved. I didnt set out the additional complications presented by this 
in my provisional decision. But I dont think this point assists Mr P, because I think his own 
solicitors knew how this issue could be resolved. I understand that Mr Ps solicitors wrote to MEx to say arrangements could be made for the 
charge to be removed from the company in administration. And for the company which had 
been dissolved, Mr Ps solicitors said that they or Mr P would have to make an application to 
the Crown. So it appears that Mr Ps solicitor was aware that this charge could be removed, 
and knew how to go about this. 
Ive considered all of Mr Ps representations carefully, and I havent changed my mind. I still 
dont think that Mr Ps complaint that MEx ought to have taken over the sale of his property 
should be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman