DRN-3280814
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, did not fairly 
compensate her for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
I know that Mrs S had both a Barclays Visa card and a Mastercard. The complaint before me 
is about the Mastercard only. 
The Mastercard account was opened in November 1994 and PPI was automatically added 
to the account. Mrs S then made a successful PPI claim in or around 1999. 
In 2013, Mrs S complained PPI had been mis-sold. Barclays agreed that it should not have 
automatically added the cover to her account. It offered to pay £293.34 to compensate Mrs S 
for that mis-sale. At this point, Barclays said it did not have all of Mrs Ss statement data and 
it had to make some assumptions about how much PPI she paid. 
In 2019, Mrs S wrote to Barclays to say she had located PPI on a separate Mastercard 
account, and she complained this cover had been mis-sold. She sent copies of some of her 
credit card statements to Barclays at the same time. 
Barclays did not alter its calculation at that time, and it told Mrs S its previous decision still 
stood. However, it had not taken account of the statement data she had provided. Mrs S 
then complained to this service. She said she thought she had two Mastercard accounts 
because she appeared to have two card reference numbers. She did not think Barclays had 
calculated compensation fairly. 
Upon being contacted by our adjudicator, Barclays said it was sorry it hadnt taken account 
of the statements Mrs S sent in 2019. It offered to pay £100 to Mrs S because of that 
mistake. It recalculated the compensation and offered to pay Mrs S a further £287.65. 
Our adjudicator said that she thought Mrs S only had one Mastercard account, and that 
Barclayss updated offer was a fair way to resolve the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with that 
view. She thought Barclays had records for the entire period, and so it did not need to make 
assumptions about her premiums. She also thought the additional £100 Barclays offered did 
not reflect the inconvenience it had put her to. She said a higher payment would help with 
her debts and to further her career prospects.  
Another of our adjudicators then considered things and thought Barclays latest offer was 
fair. Mrs S disagreed. She then sent some further information that our adjudicator forwarded 
to Barclays. In May 2021, it then agreed to increase the offer of compensation to £300.99. 
Mrs S did not accept Barclays latest offer and noted that it had stated her card balance in 
1999 to be £346.75, when in fact it had been £546.75. Barclays recalculated its offer. When 
it recalculated the offer, it said it thought the correct compensation should be £276.25  and 
not £300.99. That was because the increased balance led to a reduction in compensatory 
interest. Nonetheless, Barclays said it would honour the offer of £300.99. 
As Mrs S didnt agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After taking account of all the evidence before me, Im satisfied Barclays offer to pay Mrs S 
a further £300.99 to compensate her for mis-sold compensation is fair. Im further satisfied 
that Barclays offer of £100 because it delayed taking account the statements she sent is 
fair. Ill explain why below.  
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold. So I dont have to consider how PPI was sold. I am 
looking at whether Mrs S has been fairly compensated for that mis-sale. 
How many Mastercard accounts were there? 
The first thing Ive looked at is whether Mrs S had one or more Mastercard accounts with 
Barclays. I can see how the confusion has arisen as several different numbers were linked 
with the account. However, having considered the electronic evidence Barclays sent to us in 
some detail, Im satisfied that the reference numbers ending 85, 06 and 81 related to the 
same Mastercard account that was opened on 7 November 1994. 
Was Barclays offer fair? 
Mrs S believes Barclays has access to statement data and that its offer of compensation 
should reflect those data. She said it should pay her for the whole period and not just for the 
times when she has been able to provide statements. 
When deciding what amounts to fair compensation, as far as possible, Id expect a business 
to return the consumer to the position theyd have been in if PPI had never been sold in the 
first place. To do that, the business would need to refund the PPI premiums and any interest 
charged on those premiums. It would also need to add 8% interest a year to the extra the 
consumer paid. If a successful claim has been made, Id usually expect the business to 
deduct the value of that claim from the amount it owes the consumer. 
But in this case, Barclays says it doesnt have all of the data for Mrs Ss account. I 
appreciate Mrs S disagrees, but what Barclays said isnt unusual given how long ago the 
cover was sold. And just because Barclays has some data about when the account was 
opened, it doesnt mean it would have all the information about the transactions on her 
account. Businesses arent required to keep full data for such a long time. 
Barclays had data from May 2001. And Mrs S had been able to provide some statements 
before that time. Barclays used Mrs Ss actual data to calculate the compensation where it 
had those figures, including from the statements she provided.  For the months when it did 
not have data, it calculated an average amount from the premiums it knew Mrs S had paid. It 
then applied those averages to the missing months. As there is no data at all about the PPI 
for a considerable number of months, I think Barclays approach is fair in this regard.  
Mrs S said it wasnt fair that Barclays had only made an offer based on the statement data 
she had provided. I wish to make clear that where Barclays did not have data, it has 
assumed what she paid for PPI. It has not ignored those months. For example, Barclays had 
no data about the PPI for January 1997. But in applying its average calculation, it has 
assumed that Mrs S paid £1.84 for PPI in that month. 
Using those assumptions, Barclays undertook the steps I would expect it to take. It 
calculated the PPI premiums and the interest Mrs S would have paid. It also calculated 8% 
interest for the time Mrs S would have been out of pocket. I can see it also deducted the 
value of her successful claim, as well as the compensation it had already paid for the 
Mastercard in 2013.  Barclays made an error in calculating its offer of May 2021 by inputting an incorrect figure for 
October 2019 from the information Mrs S provided. This would have resulted in a lower offer 
when the right information was inputted. However, Barclays agreed to honour its higher May 
2021 offer, and it was fair to do so. 
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays offer of £300.99 to compensate Mrs S for mis-sold PPI is fair. 
Distress and inconvenience 
As I said above, Barclays offered to pay £100 to Mrs S because it didnt act upon the 
statement data she sent it in 2019. Mrs S believes Barclays should pay more to her because 
£100 did not reflect what Barclays had put her through over the years. She said that a higher 
payment would help her to clear debts and embark upon an educational course to further her 
employment prospects. 
My consideration of this distress and inconvenience payment is limited to what Barclays did 
in connection with the Mastercard. I appreciate Barclays didnt respond to Mrs Ss data 
quickly and I can see how that would have caused her some upset. But I think £100 is 
reasonable in light of  the error made and the resulting delay. I dont think Barclays needs to 
pay any more than it has already offered in this regard. 
Putting things right
Barclays must: 
Arrange to pay the offer of £300.99 it made to Mrs S through our adjudicator on 12 
May 2021; 
Recalculate 8% interest up to the date Mrs S gets that money back; and
Pay £100 to Mrs S for the distress and inconvenience she was put to following the 
delay in taking account of her statement data. 
My final decision
I have upheld the complaint to the extent set out above. Barclays Bank UK PLC must comply 
with the above putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman