DRN-2796545
The complaint
Mr A complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
to turn down his income protection claim.
  
What happened
Mr A is covered by his former employers group income protection policy. The policy 
provided an income if, because of illness or injury, Mr A couldnt work in an occupation to 
which he was suited by way of experience, training or education (known as a suited 
occupation definition of incapacity). The policy had a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In September 2019, Mr A stopped work because of abdominal pain. A claim was made to 
L&G; however, this was turned down as L&G didnt think Mr A met the policy definition of 
incapacity. Unhappy with this, Mr A brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought the medical evidence 
supported that Mr A couldnt work in a suited occupation because of his symptoms. She 
recommended L&G pay the claim.
L&G didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the claim to be paid, Mr A needs to show that he was unable to work in a suited 
occupation throughout the deferred period because of illness or injury. The deferred period 
was 2 September 2019 to 2 March 2020. 
When Mr A stopped work in September 2019, he described experiencing severe abdominal 
pain. He had an endoscopy which confirmed he had mild oesophagitis. Mr A was prescribed 
medication which improved his symptoms slightly, but he continued to experience ongoing 
abdominal pain. 
Over the following few months, Mr A lost quite a lot of weight (which his GP described as 
abnormal) and had various investigations for his ongoing abdominal pain. I note that Mr A 
also had some blood tests which caused his GP some concern. 
In January 2020, Mr A was interviewed by L&Gs rehabilitation specialist. They thought that 
Mr As ongoing physical symptoms were impacting on his ability to function in daily activities, 
and prevented him from undertaking his role or an alternative role. 
At the end of January 2020, Mr A met with a consultant gastroenterologist & physician (Dr 
R). Dr R said that Mr As main complaint was his dyspeptic symptoms that hed developed 
around July the previous year. Dr R took a few blood tests but asked Mr As GP to send him 
the results of recent investigations in order to rule out significant pathology. Dr R confirmed 
hed arranged a follow-up consultation with Mr A in April 2020.
The following month, Mr A made the decision to travel abroad to visit a seriously ill relative. 
He intended to return to the UK in time for his next appointment with Dr R in April.  
Unfortunately, due to travel restrictions imposed as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr A 
couldnt return to the UK until August 2020.
Theres limited evidence about the state of Mr As health whilst he was abroad, which 
included the final month or so of the deferred period. However, Mr A had a genuine reason 
for travelling, and circumstances beyond his control meant that he couldnt return to the UK 
as planned. I note that he also made L&Gs rehabilitation specialist, his employer, and his 
GP aware of his intended trip before he went. 
Mr A explains that he couldnt afford the treatment costs abroad, which is why he didnt 
arrange further investigations whilst he was away from the UK.
After Mr A returned to the UK in August 2020, the investigations continued. I understand his 
medications were also changed. Mr As GP continued to sign him off work and, in 
September 2020, confirmed that his investigations had continued on his return to the UK. 
The GP also commented on Mr As further weight loss since January 2020.
L&G says that Dr R didnt mention any impact on Mr As functional ability after he saw him in 
January 2020. I accept that. Though its also the case that L&G didnt ask Dr R about this. I 
also have to take into account that Dr R hadnt treated Mr A over a long period of time, hed 
only met him once for an initial consultation and taken some blood tests.
I think the difficulty here is that because Mr A hasnt received a diagnosis, he doesnt have a 
treating specialist that can provide more information about his symptoms and the impact on 
him. Were therefore limited to looking at Mr As self-reported symptoms, and the 
investigations that took place. 
I note that in November 2019, one of Mr As GPs suspected he may have a functional 
illness. However, this wasnt mentioned again. And in December 2019, Mr A continued to 
experience abdominal pain (despite his medication for oesophagitis), and had also had 
some unexplained weight loss. Mr As GP didnt think all of his symptoms were attributable 
to oesophagitis, and therefore arranged further investigations. There were also some 
concerning changes to his kidney that needed to be investigated. 
Also in November 2019, Mr A was taking double the prescribed dose of his medication for 
oesophagitis (presumably to try and control his continued symptoms), but was advised by 
his GP to stop doing so.
So its apparent that Mr As GP thought there was another explanation for his symptoms, 
rather than simply his mild oesophagitis. 
L&Gs medical officer (GP and occupational physician) says that, as Mr A was given 
appropriate treatment, this should have controlled his symptoms to enable him to continue 
working. They also say there was no escalation of treatment that would indicate Mr A was 
experiencing significant pain that would prevent him from performing a suited occupation 
throughout the deferred period. 
Pain is clearly a subjective matter, but as Mr As GP is the only treating doctor to have seen 
Mr A before and after his trip abroad, I think the GP was best placed to offer an opinion on 
whether Mr As symptoms would prevent him from working.  I do recognise this is a balanced case. However, I think the evidence just about supports that 
Mr A couldnt work in a suited occupation. I say that because he was experiencing ongoing 
and unexplained abdominal pain. He consistently reported this, and had undergone 
appropriate investigations into that pain. It was initially thought that the abdominal pain was 
linked to his diagnosis of mild oesophagitis, but his GP later didnt think this explained all his 
symptoms. He then showed other signs of a problem, including a concerning blood test 
result, and abnormal weight loss. He described his symptoms to L&Gs rehabilitation 
specialist, who concluded that he couldnt work in his role or an alternative one, despite 
knowing that Mr A intended to soon travel to visit his relative. 
Although we dont have details of Mr As health at the end of the deferred period, Im 
satisfied that the evidence from his GP supports that his symptoms continued and still 
needed to be investigated on his return to the UK. On that basis, I think its reasonable to 
say that Mr As symptoms had continued throughout the deferred period, and that the claim 
should be paid.
L&G has contacted its rehabilitation specialist and, after providing them with Mr As medical 
file, asked them to clarify their clinical opinion. The rehabilitation specialist said they agreed 
with L&Gs medical officer, and it was unclear to them what would have prevented Mr A from 
engaging in a return to work in his insured role with reasonable adjustments. 
I think greater weight ought to be placed on the rehabilitation specialists initial opinion, 
rather than the later one. I say that for two reasons. First of all, their opinion from January 
2020 was made during the deferred period. The symptoms that were described by Mr A at 
that time were symptoms that he has consistently reported, so its not clear why the 
rehabilitation specialist later said that she thought Mr A could return to work. Secondly, and 
whilst I dont question her professionalism, I cant ignore that the rehabilitation specialist 
works for L&G. Given that L&Gs medical officer (who is a doctor) had already provided a 
medical opinion on the matter, I recognise it might be difficult for L&Gs own rehabilitation 
specialist to go against the medical officers opinion. 
The policy allows L&G to continue paying benefit directly to the insured if their employment 
ends. The policy says this is at L&Gs discretion, so I wouldnt normally interfere in this. 
However, Mr A has provided supporting evidence to show that his employer chose to end his 
employment as a direct result of L&G turning down his claim. Whilst I accept that the 
decision to terminate Mr As employment was his employers, I think its reasonable to 
conclude that Mr A would have remained employed if L&G had accepted the claim. 
Therefore, it would be appropriate here for L&G to continue to pay the claim beyond the date 
that Mr As employment ended, in line with the remaining policy terms.  
Mr A has also complained about L&Gs handling of the claim, particularly the timescales 
involved. Our investigator has set out the timing of L&Gs claim investigation in some detail, 
so I wont repeat this here. However, having carefully considered the timescales involved, I 
dont think L&G caused any unnecessary delays in its handling of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to pay the claim. As Mr A no longer works for that employer, it should make 
the payment directly to him. 
Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should be added to the benefit amount 
calculated from the date each payment was due to the date of settlement*.* If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman