DRN-2976224
The complaint
Mr B acquired a car in August 2015, by means of a conditional sale agreement over 
49 months with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF). He complains about the way BPF has administered his agreement account  
in particular, he complains about the application of a Default Notice in September 2017. He 
also complains about the inaccurate way in which his account has been reported on his 
credit file.  
What happened
Mr B said:
His personal circumstances in 2015 were that he had sufficient income to make the 
monthly repayments required under his agreement, and to satisfy his other financial 
commitments  but he did not have savings
A domestic matter caused him to have a short-term cashflow problem in 
September 2016, and he agreed with BPF a revised schedule of (enhanced) 
repayments
He failed to make repayments in December 2016, January 2017 and March 2017  
but he made an enhanced repayment in February 2017
He then agreed with BPF a new revised schedule of (different) repayments, starting 
in April 2017, which would recover his arrears over 12 months
A domestic matter again caused him to have a short-term cashflow problem in 
August 2017, and he failed to make that months repayment
He phoned BPF in late September 2017 and made an enhanced payment  he also 
agreed another revised schedule of repayments, which would recover his arrears at 
the rate of £100 per month
BPF took his October 2017 repayment successfully by direct debit, but the November 
2017 direct debit failed
When he became aware of this failure, he again phoned BPF and offered several 
recovery options  BPF rejected these options, told him that it intended to seek 
recovery of his car by means of a court order, and referred him to its solicitors
He told BPF and its solicitors that he was able and willing to clear the entire arrears, 
providing he was allowed to keep his car, which he needed for his work
Prior to a court hearing in May 2018, an agreement to repay the arrears over three 
months was arranged between him and BPF by its solicitors, which he fulfilled 
He subsequently made the regular monthly repayments on time and in full
BPF issued notices of arrears to Mr B in January and July 2017, and a default notice in 
September 2017. Mr Bs credit file shows that his account was defaulted in November 2017. 
Mr B said that the record on his credit file of how his account was conducted was inaccurate. 
Mr B initially complained to BPF. BPF responded saying:
It upheld Mr Bs complaint in part  it agreed that some of the information recorded 
on Mr Bs credit file was incorrect, and it would amend this information to reflect 
accurately his repayment history
It offered Mr B compensation of £50 for the distress and inconvenience cause by this 
error
But it considered that it had acted properly by issuing a default notice in 
September 2017, when Mr Bs account was three months in arrears
Mr B had entered a repayment plan, in order to clear these arrears and to prevent a 
default  but the plan broke in November 2017 (when the direct debit failed), which 
caused the default to be registered
So, it did not agree that Mr Bs account had been administered improperly 
Mr B did not accept BPFs response and referred his complaint to us, saying:
Although BPF had agreed to correct the inaccurate information on his credit file, it 
had not done so
The guidelines financial businesses should follow, when defaulting an account, are 
that this process should not start before the account is three months in arrears 
In his view, he had not missed three contractual repayments in September 2017, and 
so a default notice should not have been issued at that time
Similarly, based on these guidelines, his account should not have been defaulted in 
November 2017
Our investigator confirmed with BPF that Mr Bs credit file still contained inaccurate 
information. 
But our investigator did not agree with Mr B that BPFs defaulting of his account was unfair, 
noting:
An account remains in arrears until the arrears balance is cleared  Mr Bs account 
went into arrears in late 2017, and remained in arrears until it was defaulted
So, it had been arrears for more than three months, when BPF issued its default 
notice in September 2017
BPF did not implement the default, while Mr B adhered to an agreed repayment plan 
 but the direct debit failed in November 2017, and so adherence to the plan ended
In these circumstances, our investigator thought that BPF had followed the relevant 
guidelines and the default was fair. 
Our investigator recommended that BPF should:
Ensure that the payment history of this account in Mr Bs credit file reflected the 
actual history 
Pay compensation of £400 to Mr B for distress and inconvenience, relating to the 
inaccurate credit file information  
BPF initially disagreed with our investigator, saying that the level of compensation was too 
high. But it subsequently changed its view and agreed with the recommendations.Mr B also disagreed with our investigator. He said that, in his view:
The level of compensation was insufficient  this was because the inaccurate credit 
file information had caused both considerable long-term distress and inconvenience, 
and some intangible financial impact on him
Where the relevant guidance described when the default process should start, it did 
not make sufficiently clear whether it was referring to a duration of three months, or 
the value of three months repayments  but he was clear that BPF was interpreting 
the guidance as referring to the value of repayments
The amount of arrears recorded in BPFs default notice was incorrectly overstated, 
and was less than the value of three months repayments
On the above basis, BPF issued its notice of default when it should not have done so 
 and, if it had not done so, his short-term cashflow problem would then have come 
to an end, and the need to default his account would have been avoided
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
Mr B subsequently told us that BPF had amended the information on his credit file to reflect 
accurately his accounts repayment history. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Based on information from both BPF and Mr B, his repayment history from December 2016 
to November 2017 was:
December  no payment (1)
January  no payment (2)
February  revised schedule (enhanced) payment
March  no payment (3)
April  new revised schedule payment (pay off arrears in 12 months)
May  ditto
June  ditto
July  ditto
August  no payment (4)
September  late (higher) payment
October  another revised schedule payment (pay off arrears £100 each month)
November  no payment (5)
From April 2017, repayments in the new revised schedule (agreed between Mr B and BPF) 
were by direct debit, due on 25th of each month (and taken then or shortly thereafter).  
Although Mr B made a payment on 28 September 2017, this was done after that months 
repayment was due, and after BPF had unsuccessfully attempted a direct debit (on 25 
September). This was also after BPF issued its default notice (on 26 September 2017), 
when the number of no payment months had increased to five  before returning to four, 
due to Mr Bs (late) payment. Did BPF act unfairly?
I have reviewed the guidelines BPF should have followed when recording a default. These 
say, as a general guide, that an account may be defaulted when it is at least three months in 
arrears. They refer to the duration of arrears, and they do not refer to the monetary value 
involved.
Mr B argues that BPF was interpreting the guidelines in terms of monetary value  and so, in 
order to be fair, it should act consistently in deciding when to default his account.  I agree 
that BPF should have acted fairly, and I think that it did so:
After two consecutive missed payments (in December 2016 and January 2017), BPF 
agreed a revised schedule of payments  to enable him to catch up with this gap in 
payments, which Mr B said was caused by a domestic cashflow problem
After another missed payment (in March 2017), BPF rescheduled his subsequent 
monthly payments for the second time
After two more consecutive missed payments in (August and September 2017), BPF 
immediately issued a notice of default
But, straight afterwards, Mr B made a (late) payment and BPF rescheduled his 
subsequent payments for a third time
It was only when the (third revision) payment was missed in November 2017 that 
BPF recorded the default on Mr Bs credit file
As our investigator pointed out to Mr B, his account was in arrears from December 2016. 
BPF delayed giving him notice of default until September 2017, and it delayed a further two 
months before recording the default on his credit file. 
And so, I am unable to find that BPF acted unfairly.
Was the default notice inaccurate? 
I am also unable definitively to determine whether the notice of default accurately recorded 
Mr Bs arrears at the date specified. But I am not convinced by Mr Bs argument that it is 
incorrect, which appears to rely (at least in part) on repayment dates being the 28th of each 
month, when documentation sent by BPF to Mr B refers to the 25th day or shortly thereafter. 
And so, on the balance of probabilities, I find that the default notice was accurate.
Is the award for non-financial loss insufficient?
There is information about compensation for non-financial loss on our public website, where 
we describe:
When we might award compensation for distress or inconvenience, damage to 
reputation, pain and suffering
What we take into account when deciding an award, where compensation is 
appropriate
Examples of awards for trouble and upset
On the one hand, Mr B argues that he should receive a more substantial award than £400.  
It is accepted that inaccurate information was recorded on Mr Bs credit file, and that this has 
caused some distress and inconvenience. Mr B also argues that he has suffered some 
intangible financial impact, but specific evidence is not available.  
On the other hand, I have found that BPF acted fairly in recording a default on Mr Bs credit 
file, and that the notice of default was accurate. On balance, I find that compensation of £400 in this instance is appropriate, given the 
circumstances of Mr B complaint, and is consistent with our approach to awarding 
compensation.  
Putting things right
I find that I have come to the same conclusions as our investigator, for similar reasons.  And 
so, I agree with our investigator that Mr B should receive compensation for distress and 
inconvenience of £400.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  In 
full and final settlement of it, I order Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF), to pay compensation of £400 directly to Mr B.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman