DRN-3072732
The complaint
Mr C complains that he suffered an injury when attending a branch of Lloyds Bank Plc. Hes 
also unhappy that he experienced a delay in how Lloyds dealt with his DSAR response and 
that it sent correspondence to an address he was no longer living at.
What happened
Mr C holds a number of accounts with Lloyds. On 26 August 2020, he was attending a local 
Lloyds branch just before closing time in order to deposit money into his account when he 
said he suffered a foot injury. He stated that a Lloyds employee closed the branch outer door 
on his foot, which led to bruising and damage to his nail. 
Mr C complained to Lloyds immediately about the injury he sustained. He said he suffered 
pain for around a month after the incident and experienced financial loss as a result of him 
taking time off work due to the injury. But Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr C made a DSAR request as he wanted to obtain CCTV footage showing his visit to the 
branch and how the injury had occurred. He also asked Lloyds to send him all relevant 
communication. 
Mr C was initially informed that the CCTV would be provided. However, he was 
subsequently told that when the footage was reviewed by the DSAR team it was corrupt and, 
due to the passage of time, the original footage had been deleted. And he said Lloyds wrote 
to him about his DSAR request at a previous address he was no longer living at.
Mr C was unhappy with how his complaint, and DSAR request had been dealt with. He was 
also concerned that post was sent to an incorrect address. So, he referred a complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator assessed the evidence Mr C and Lloyds l had provided but they werent 
persuaded our service was able to assess the merits of the personal injury part of this 
complaint as this wasnt within our jurisdiction. They thought the compensation Lloyds had 
paid Mr C for sending post to the wrong address was fair and reasonable and they referred 
him to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to pursue any further concerns about 
data protection breaches.
Lloyds agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr C didnt. He wanted to be 
paid compensation to reflect the injury and loss of earnings hed suffered and asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr C and Lloyds, but Ill concentrate 
my decision on what I think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it. Its because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of 
it is here, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Personal injury
Im sorry to see Mr C has experienced a degree of upset and frustration in trying to raise his 
concerns about the injury he suffered with Lloyds and our service. However, while Im 
conscious that Mr C is keen to have his concerns investigated, before I can look into a 
complaint, or express my thoughts on how best it should be resolved, I have to have the 
power to do so. 
The DISP rules which apply to our service are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook. These rules determine, amongst other things, who may bring a complaint to us, 
whether a particular financial business is covered by the scheme, what types of financial 
products and/or activities we can look at and the time limits which apply.
What this all means is that our service isnt able to deal with every type of complaint thats 
brought to us. There are some situations where our terms of reference dont allow us to deal 
with a complaint. Such is the case where a complaint concerns personal injury. Ill explain 
why. 
The DISP rules outline the types of activities our service can look into complaints about. 
They provide examples of what types of complaints we can consider. I wont list all of the 
activities DISP describes as falling under the jurisdiction of this service, but I have carefully 
considered how these rules apply here.
While complaints about banking services are regulated for activities, Mr Cs complaint 
relates to the fact that he suffered an injury on trying to enter the branch. This isnt an activity 
thats covered by these rules. That means that I cant consider his complaint about this 
matter or any resulting loss of earnings. This is a matter which is best left for a court to 
decide.
Way in which the DSAR request was dealt with
Ive seen evidence showing that Lloyds received a DSAR request from Mr C on 10 
September 2020. I can see that Lloyds wrote to Mr C the same day, albeit at his previous 
address, to explain that it had started to request the call recordings hed asked for. This 
correspondence contained a form for Mr C to complete to assist it in retrieving the CCTV 
hed also requested.
Mr C wrote to Lloyds on 14 September 2020 specifying the extent of his DSAR request. And 
on 20 September 2020, he returned the completed CCTV form. Lloyds responded to this on 
1 October when it wrote to Mr C at his current address to inform him that it had started to 
request the relevant CCTV footage. It stated the footage would be subject to redaction. So, 
additional time would be needed to meet Mr Cs disclosure request. This isnt unreasonable.
On 23 September 2020, Lloyds wrote to Mr C, again at his previous address, enclosing CD 
recordings of calls that were relevant to his DSAR request. It also provided detailed 
instructions on how to play the recordings. I think, overall, that the call recordings were 
provided quickly by Lloyds.
On 8 December 2020, Lloyds wrote to Mr C at his current address to update him on his 
CCTV DSAR request. It stated that the footage that had been received had been corrupt. 
So, it couldnt be viewed and that by the time this was noticed the original footage had been deleted as the branch do so every 28 days. I appreciate that this caused Mr C frustration. 
But Lloyds couldnt have known the original CCTV was still needed until it had viewed the 
copy footage it received and realised this was unusable. Unfortunately, this was later than 28 
days, which explains why the original footage no longer existed. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think there were any unusual delays in Lloyds trying to obtain the CCTV footage 
for Mr C.
Mr C told our investigator he thought Lloyds should have a process in place which prevents 
CCTV being deleted after 28 days. But it isnt unusual for businesses to delete CCTV on a 
28-day rolling cycle and Lloyds is entitled to make commercial decisions about CCTV 
retention. Were not the regulator of banks. So, we cant tell a business to change its policy, 
or to adopt the changes that Mr C might like.
Data protection breaches 
Ive seen at least 5 letters that were addressed to Mr C at his previous address. Lloyds 
accepts that it wrote to Mr C at that address in error. Its provided evidence to our service 
showing that Mr C updated his address on 9 September 2020. But its also stated that some 
mailings are produced 8 weeks in advance  such as marketing mail  which it says might 
explain why Mr C continued to receive post at his previous address. 
Ive discounted what Lloyds has said about Mr C receiving letters at the wrong address 
because they were produced prior to the address change. I say this because the incorrectly 
addressed letters Ive seen werent marketing mailings  they were specific to Mr Cs DSAR 
request. So, I think its unlikely that these letters were pre-prepared given that the DSAR 
request wasnt made until 10 September 2020. I therefore think Lloyds made an error in not 
using Mr Cs updated address to write to him about his DSAR request.
Lloyds has already paid Mr C £100 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused, 
£33.99 towards the cost of setting up a Royal Mail redirection service for three months and 
£369 to reflect the fact that he made 5 visits to his previous address (a round trip of about 
820 miles) to retrieve the post sent there in error.
In thinking about whether the compensation Lloyds has already paid is fair Ive taken a 
number of things into consideration. Im persuaded that, once Lloyds was aware of its error, 
it accepted responsibility for quickly and candidly. And I understand from Mr C that a friend 
lives at his previous address, which means he was able to retrieve the post Lloyds sent 
without difficulties. Mr C also stated that he hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result of 
an individual using his details fraudulently.
To recognise all of this, I think a modest amount of compensation is fair here. Having 
thought carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr C, Im satisfied that the £100 already 
offered by Lloyds is a reasonable amount, which is in line with our approach in similar 
scenarios. While Mr C may disagree with me, Im satisfied that this fairly recognises the 
impact Lloyds errors had.
Lloyds accepted that, as a result of its error, Mr C had to attend his previous address on 5 
occasions. Its paid him £369 for the cost of his expenses and Im satisfied this appropriately 
reflects the cost of travelling around 820 miles. 
I can see that Mr C wants to be compensated for the time he had to spend travelling and 
raising his concerns with Lloyds. And I recognise that Mr C will have spent a considerable 
amount of time in trying to resolve matters relating to this complaint. Ive seen evidence of 
the postage costs he incurred in writing to Lloyds about his complaint. I appreciate that this has all taken up a lot of Mr Cs time. But Im satisfied that the compensation already paid 
fairly recognises the impact here.
Mr C has stated that the outcome may have been different if the person receiving the post 
Lloyds had sent had opened it. While I appreciate that he is, understandably, concerned by 
what couldve happened, our service can only award compensation where a business has 
made a mistake which has impacted on a consumer. We can only look at what did happen. 
So, it wouldnt be fair or impartial of me to tell Lloyds to pay compensation for something that 
didnt happen.
Ive seen evidence that confirms that Lloyds has correctly changed Mr Cs address. And I 
can also see its paid the cost of a Royal Mail redirection from the previous address to Mr Cs 
current address. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances and shows that Lloyds 
took appropriate steps to prevent this error from happening again. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest this has happened again. So, Im pleased this issue now appears to 
have been resolved.
I appreciate that Mr C has said he feels theres been a breach of data protection and I can 
see that our investigator has already signposted him to the ICO should he wish to pursue 
this issue further. Our investigator was right to say the ICO is better placed than this service 
to look at an organisations handling of personal data because its not our role to decide 
whether a breach of data protection has taken place. So, I wont be commenting on this part 
of his complaint as this issue falls outside of our jurisdiction. 
I appreciate that Mr C feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said. But I think Lloyds has dealt with this complaint 
fairly and done all it can to resolve this dispute. So, Im not going to ask it to do anymore 
here
I realise Mr C will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr 
C any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman