DRN-3865212
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complained about the delays and the management of their damage claim 
following a leak at their home. They had a home insurance policy with esure Insurance 
Limited (esure).
What happened
Mr and Mrs E had a leak  they contacted their home emergency provider to fix it. Mr and 
Mrs E experienced difficulties with their home emergency provision, but this complaint 
focuses on the circumstances involving their insurer in relation to repairing the damage from 
locating the leak (trace and access) and the damage from the leak itself.
Mr and Mrs E felt esure contributed to the delays in locating the leak which led to further 
damage been caused to their property. Mr and Mrs E said significant amounts of water 
leaked into their wall cavities and they felt it was dangerous in respect to the electics. The 
carpets from the bedroom and landing were damaged and had to be removed. The house 
required drying.
esure settled the claim. However, Mr and Mrs E were unhappy with the details of the 
settlement and there they had to make several calls to try and resolve this. Some of these 
calls werent returned.
esure acknowledged there were delays in initially accepting the claim and that its service 
hadnt met the standards it would expect. esure acknowledged the difficulty Mr and Mrs E 
had experienced when trying to contact it and its appointed contractors. esure said it had 
learnt from the mistakes and paid Mr and Mrs E £100 compensation to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused. Mr and Mrs E didnt think the compensation fairly reflected 
their troubles.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought esure had accepted its 
failings for what happened. However, she didnt think the compensation paid was enough, 
she felt the inconvenience was greater due to the effort they had to make in pushing the 
claim forward themselves. She awarded a further £25 to cover the cost of the calls made by 
Mr and Mrs E and a further £25 compensation (so recommended £150 compared to esures 
payment of £100). Mr and Mrs E disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure have accepted it has made mistakes and agreed its standard of service was lower 
than it shouldve been, so I will focus my decision on considering whether I think £100 is 
enough compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
As this complaint is set-up against esure (the insurer), I can only consider any mistakes 
made by it. Im not able in this complaint able to consider anything done incorrectly by the 
home emergency provider. However, I have noted that it was the home emergency provider 
who caused problems at the outset by failing to fix the leak properly  this itself will have 
caused delays and damage, but I cant hold esure responsible for this.
I can see esure was initially notified about the claim on 21 January  the home emergency 
provider wasnt able to provide a trace and access service, so Mr and Mrs E was seeking 
support from esure. From reading the claim notes, it seems Mr and Mrs E had an 
expectation that esure would locate the leak, fix it and reinstate any damage caused. I dont 
think this was reasonable, as under the policy esure arent obligated to carry out any repairs. 
I appreciate this might have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs E, but I dont think its fair to 
expect esure to provide services that arent covered by the policy.
esure appointed a contractor to locate the leak. Mr and Mrs E were unhappy that it wasnt 
until 3 February that the contractor was able to attend their property which allowed the leak 
to be fixed. I think given the circumstances two weeks was a long time for esure to get its 
contractors to attend. However, I can see that on 27 January, Mr and Mrs E were advised 
they could appoint their own contractor to do this work and claim for the cost of this. I do 
think Mr and Mrs E have suffered here, as esure hasnt provided the service it was obligated 
to under the policy in a reasonable timeframe. But, I have noted that esure did try and 
mitigate the delay. I think the delay wouldve increased the distress caused by the initial leak.
I can see Mr and Mrs E made numerous calls to get updates on the claim. I think esure 
couldve made it easier for Mr and Mrs E by better explaining the roles of each of the parties 
involved in the claim (the role of the home emergency provider, themselves and different 
appointed contractors). I think this wouldve been confusing for Mr and Mrs E. esure are 
experts in the claims process, so I wouldve expected them to take the lead and help reduce 
the anxiety for Mr and Mrs E. Having said this, I must be fair and say part of this 
responsibility was also with the home emergency provider  so the fault here I think is 
shared.
esure offered Mr and Mrs E a cash settlement for the damage and they asked for more 
details to support this on 24 February. After some dialogue, I can see Mr and Mrs E 
accepted the cash settlement on offer. I dont think the time to reach an agreement here is 
unreasonable.
Therefore, I have considered whether the compensation offered by esure was fair. I dont 
think it was. I think there is evidence of delays early in the process once esure became 
aware of the claim. However, considering the overall timescales, Im not convinced these 
delays significantly impacted the extent of the damage. 
There were some difficulties in Mr and Mrs E understanding the claims process. With any 
claim there will be inconvenience caused and its easy to think this is always the insurers 
fault, but unfortunately incidents happen. The leak wasnt caused by esure, so its not fair to 
hold everything against it. I do think it couldve communicated better to provide a clear 
timeframe and understanding of the process. So, I do uphold this complaint.
I award £150 in compensation in total (I.e., £50 more than was offered by esure originally) to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused (including any expenses incurred, such as 
telephone calls). I dont think esures actions caused significant damage beyond what was 
already caused  but I do think it added to the level of anxiety Mr and Mrs E suffered.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
and Mrs E £50 in additional compensation for distress and inconvenience (£150 in total) if 
this hasnt already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman