DRN-3027527
The complaint
Ms S complains that Nationwide Building Society has treated her unfairly. She says the level 
of service shes received is less than expected. To put things right, shed like some 
compensation from Nationwide. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties and the investigator gave a 
detailed breakdown of the background to this complaint. So, I dont intend to go over the 
background in detail here.
After considering the complaint, our investigator thought that there were aspects of 
Nationwides dealing with Ms S that were unfair and so she recommended that Ms S 
complaint be upheld and that Nationwide pay Ms S £750 in compensation.
Neither party has agreed to the investigators opinion. Nationwide has said among other 
things that the circumstances around the pandemic had an impact on some of its services 
and Ms S has said Nationwide has misrepresented the facts and that its actions towards her 
libellous.
Ms S has said the overall treatment from Nationwide has made feel Nationwide was 
discriminating against due to her race as she hadnt noticed other customers being treated 
the way she has been.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of this complaint and what I think was likely to 
have happened.
I know Ms S feels that theres a racial undertone to the way she has been treated by 
Nationwide, but this service cant make a direct finding on whether an act or omission is 
discriminatory under the provisions of the Equality Act 2010, only a court can do this. 
However, Ive taken into account the Act and thought about whether Nationwide has acted in 
a fair and reasonable way.
From what I can see, Ms S complaint stems from a telephone conversation with a 
Nationwide branch and two visits to the same branch. Ill address the incidents in turn.
The telephone conversation
Ms S has told this service that she usually calls the branch ahead of her visits to make 
withdrawals and that in October 2019, she called and while speaking to a member of staff, it 
felt as though the Nationwide staff hung up on her and didnt call her back. Nationwide didnt 
agree that the staff had done anything wrong and said the call dropped and the member of 
staff had asked other colleagues to let her know if Ms S called back so she could conclude 
her request. I note that Ms S did call back and spoke to another member of staff and was 
able to complete her call. Due to the time that has passed, I cant comment on whether 
Nationwide treated Ms S fairly when it looked into her concerns here, but I think this issue 
helps add context to the relationship between Nationwide and Ms S. 
Ms S visit to the branch in June 2020
Ms S has said that she called before going to the branch in June 2020 to make a withdrawal, 
she said shed specifically requested new £20 notes and wanted to withdraw £2,500. Ms S 
has explained to this service that she needed the new notes to pay carers as she finds that 
carers have an attitude towards old notes.
Its not in dispute that when Ms S attended branch in June 2020, she wasnt immediately 
allowed into the branch. I accept that it was in the middle of the pandemic and there were 
restrictions at the time. Nationwide said at the time it was only allowing customers in to 
branch where there was a counter staff available and I appreciate that it was rightly 
concerned about the safety of its staff and members. So, while Ms S felt that she was being 
prevented from going into the branch by a particular member of staff without due course, I 
think Nationwides reasoning for the restrictions here werent unreasonable given the 
circumstances. Ms S has also said the particular member of staff wasnt polite in the way 
she was asked to step away from the door, while I dont disbelieve what Ms S says 
happened here, there isnt enough information available for me to about this particular 
incident to make a finding that the member of staff acted unreasonably at the door.
Ive also considered the issue following Ms S receiving her funds from the counter, Ms S 
says she was told she couldnt sit in the branch as the chair there was for staff, but 
Nationwide says the chairs from the branch were removed due to the pandemic. There isnt 
any independent evidence to verify exactly what happened here, Nationwide has been 
unable to provide CCTV footage from the branch on that day, so I cant say what exactly 
happened. However, Im conscious that Ms S had a disability which I think Nationwide was 
aware of because its internal notes suggest that Ms S had mentioned to it that she had 
issues with mobility in the past. And while I dont underestimate the difficulties working in a 
bank branch during the pandemic, I think Nationwide could have been more accommodating 
to Ms S knowing her circumstances. I find it hard to accept that there were no reasonable 
adjustments that Nationwide could have made for its member in Ms S circumstances and I 
think it should have done more here. 
When Ms S returned to branch on the same day after counting and separating the money, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to ask the reason for her return bearing in 
mind the restrictions, however, although Nationwide says her request for new notes were 
unreasonable in the circumstances, I dont think thats fair. I say this because I believe Ms S 
had genuine reasons for needing the new notes as opposed to the old ones and while 
Nationwide said it wasnt always able to fulfil the requests as it can only carry out 
transactions with the currency it is supplied, it doesnt appear that Nationwide understood its 
customer and her need, so while it may not have had the new £20 notes to give Ms S, rather 
than tell her she made unreasonable requests, it could have helpfully explained again the 
unavailability of new notes and offered her alternative. I can understand why Ms S may have 
felt she wasnt being listened to and treated fairly.March 2021 visit
Turning to Ms S visit in March 2021, I dont doubt that Ms S is security conscious. both 
parties have provided different versions of events about whether Ms S had asked for her 
security details written on a piece of paper back in the past, its not in dispute that she did 
ask for it on this occasion. The member of staff serving her placed the piece of paper in the 
confidentiality waste and didnt return it to Ms S.
 
In addition to not being given the paper with her security details, Ms S also says the member 
of staff who served her on that day rolled her eyes at her and wasnt listening to her. To my 
mind, Ms S request for the paper back wasnt unreasonable and I think Nationwide was in a 
position to grant that request. I also dont doubt that Nationwide likely disposed of such 
information confidentially, but I think Ms S is entirely within her right to choose to dispose of 
her confidential information herself. I havent seen any evidence from Nationwide that it has 
a policy of prohibiting its members from choosing to destroy such information themselves, 
and I dont think Nationwide acted fairly by not honouring Ms Ss request.
It is clear from all the information provided that both Ms S and the particular Nationwide 
branch in question havent always had an easy relationship, the branch on one hand 
believes Ms S isnt satisfied with the level of service it provides and so it thinks she 
complains a lot and had previously told her it will review the relationship if she continued to 
raise complaints about its staff, Ms S on the other hand feels that shes being treated unfairly 
in this branch by certain members of staff because of her race as she says she doesnt get 
similar treatment in other places.
I appreciate that Nationwide has a duty to protect its staff and I expect it to take that duty 
seriously, but it also has a duty to treat its members fairly. Ms S clearly felt like she was 
being watched by other members of staff in the branch and while Nationwide has presented 
arguments as to why it thinks Ms S was unlikely to be aware of being monitored, it does 
admit that it doesnt have a companywide policy to monitor its members but that the 
particular branch in question chose to take the step to protect its staff as it says Ms S has 
made complaints about the staff and needed someone else to witness interactions with her.
I consider this action to monitor Ms S in this way unfair, theres a balance to be struck 
between protecting staff and treating members fairly and in my opinion, Nationwide hasnt 
struck that balance fairly. Ms S was never told she would be monitored, and I cant see that 
Nationwide took steps engage constructively with her about her interactions. Ms S obviously 
was been conscious of being monitored and I can understand why that causes Ms S 
concern bearing in mind the kind of information Nationwide has about her and it choosing to 
take this action unilaterally in the circumstances wasnt appropriate. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that other members were treated in the same way and so I can 
understand why Ms S also feels she as being treated differently to other customers.
Overall, I think there are areas as Ive explained above where I think Nationwide hasnt acted 
fairly towards Ms S and I think due to Nationwides action she has suffered distress and 
inconvenience and so Im upholding this complaint and Nationwide needs to put things right.
Having carefully thought about everything and paying attention to Ms S submissions on why 
the compensation award should be higher, I have to explain that this service doesnt 
fine/punish businesses for their actions or inactions when thinking about awarding 
compensation to consumers, that is something that falls outside of our remit. Ms S feels that 
Nationwide hasnt been truthful in its account, but as stated above, both parties have 
different versions of account and Ive considered what I think most likely happened and, on that basis, it is my view that £750 represents fair compensation in this case and so I wont be 
increasing the compensation amount. 
Putting things right
To put things right Nationwide should pay Ms S £750 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to put things right as stated 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman