DRN-3893491
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy a storm damage claim made under his home insurance policy has been 
declined by HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI).
What happened
On 17 February 2022 Mr M noticed a tile had fallen from his roof. The following day, during 
bad weather, Mr M noticed further tiles had fallen, along with damage to his rear chimney 
stack. Mr M made a claim to HDI, his home insurance provider.
HDI inspected the damage. They said there werent storm conditions when the first slates 
had fallen, therefore this had happened due to them being loose. HDI accepted there were 
storm conditions the following day when damage was caused to Mr Ms chimney stack, but 
they said the chimney was suffering wear and tear to the render which had allowed damage 
to be caused over time. Therefore, HDI said the storm had highlighted pre-existing issues 
with the chimney, rather than being the main cause of damage. 
HDI also said that whilst additional tiles had fallen when there were storm conditions, the fact 
some fell the day before when there wasnt indicates they were already loose. So, they said 
the storm on that day wasnt the dominant cause. Therefore, HDI declined Mr Ms claim for 
both the tiles and chimney stack.
Mr M was unhappy with HDI declining his claim and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. In relation to the tiles, 
he said the first tiles fell when there werent storm conditions, which indicated they were 
already loose. He was satisfied a storm occurred the day after when some more tiles fell, but 
given some fell before the storm, he was unable to conclude the storm was the dominant 
cause of the additional tiles falling.
In relation to the rear chimney stack, the investigator was of the view that it was suffering 
wear and tear. He said he was persuaded by HDI conclusions that the weather had 
highlighted an issue with the chimney, rather than the damage solely being caused by the 
storm. So, he didnt think HDI had acted unfairly by declining Mr Ms claim.
Mr M didnt agree, he said there were storm conditions on the day the tile first fell and 
provided some information about the weather at the time which he said supported this. He 
also said he accepted one of his chimney stacks was suffering from wear and tear, but he 
says the one he is claiming for wasnt.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms additional comments and information but this didnt 
change his view of things. As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the 
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Ill consider the tiles and chimney separately, but following the same approach above to 
each.
The tiles 
Mr M says a small number of tiles fell from his roof on 17 February 2022. The day after, he 
says several more fell and this is when the damage to the chimney (which Ill consider 
separately) occurred too.
Mr Ms policy provides cover for storm damage. The policy defines a storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as: wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots 
(55 mph, equivalent to storm force 10 on the internationally recognised Beaufort 
Scale), or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, snow to a depth of at 
least one foot (30 cms) in 24 hours or hail of such intensity that it causes damage to 
hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Our investigator said he didnt think there were storm conditions on the day the first tiles fell. 
Ive considered the weather records that our investigator relied on (which Mr M was also 
sent a copy of), and these show windspeeds on that day reaching a maximum of 41mph. I 
dont consider this storm conditions.
Mr M has provided Met office data which he says shows there were storms on the day. 
However, these are for the whole country with limited detail about the location of the weather 
station(s). The weather records our investigator relied on, and which Ive considered, were 
for the specific area of Mr Ms property. So, Im not able to conclude Mr Ms Met office data 
for the whole country is more persuasive than the specific weather records for his area.
Consequently, Im not satisfied that there were storm conditions on the day the first tiles fell 
 17 February 2022. Therefore, on balance, Im persuaded by HDIs conclusions that there 
was an existing issue with the tiles, and they were loose, which resulted in them falling in the 
absence of storm conditions. With this in mind, I dont think HDI has acted unfairly by 
declining this part of Mr Ms claim.
Additional tiles also fell from the roof the following day  18 February 2022. I accept there 
were storm conditions on that date. And tiles could come off in a storm, in the right weather 
conditions, so that potentially satisfies the first two questions above. 
However, Id also need to be satisfied the storm was the dominant or main cause of those 
additional tiles being displaced. Given tiles fell the day before when there werent storm 
conditions, indicating they were loose and had pre-existing issues, Im not satisfied it has 
been shown that the storm was the dominant or main cause of the additional tiles falling the 
following day when there was a storm.
With this in mind, I dont think HDI has acted unreasonably in declining the tiles part of 
Mr Ms claim.The rear chimney stack
Mr M said his rear chimney stack was damaged on 18 February 2022. As I said above, Im 
satisfied a storm did occur on that date. And a chimney stack could be damaged during a 
storm, so the first two questions above are potentially satisfied.
However, Im not persuaded the storm was the main or dominant cause of damage here. Ill 
explain why.
Having inspected the damage during a visit to Mr Ms property, HDI have said the chimney 
stacks are suffering with wear and tear over time. They say the render is suffering from 
historic cracking which has allowed rainwater to penetrate, leading to freezing in the winter 
and weakening of the render and brickwork. HDI have also taken into account street view 
images, and say there are visible problems dating back to at least 2017. So, theyve relied 
on an exclusion in Mr Ms policy which says:
Gradual operating causes
Any loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually including wear and 
tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot, 
normal settlement, or any loss due to mildew, rust, corrosion or fungus and costs that 
are caused by the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its 
contents. Any loss or damage caused gradually that you ought to have been aware 
of or has resulted from general lack of maintenance of your home.
Ive looked at the images taken of the chimney and Im persuaded by HDIs views on this. I 
think the cracking to the render is, on balance, damage which has happened over time, 
rather than due to a one-off incident of storm on 18 February 2022.
Ive also looked at the street view images from 2017 - and before then too. These show the 
chimney stacks were suffering from historic cracking, and wear and tear. Its clearly visible 
on the front stack in those 2017 images, and both chimneys prior to this. And these images 
are from at least five years before the claim, the same damage is evident to the front 
chimney since then, and no render maintenance or replacement has been carried out since 
then either. Even without those historic images, the images from the time of loss taken by 
HDIs surveyor are persuasive in my view and still show historic wear and tear on their own.
Mr M accepts that the front chimney stack is suffering from wear and tear to the render, but 
he says he isnt claiming for that chimney. However, both chimney stacks are covered in the 
same render, and neither have had separate maintenance to the other. So, I cant conclude 
that one would be in a considerably different condition to the other. And I dont think the 
images support that either.
Furthermore, there are other areas of Mr Ms property which have visible render cracking, 
and the same render applies across Mr Ms property. Mr M argues that these visible cracks 
in other areas are only present due to alterations made to his property rather than wear and 
tear, but Im not satisfied thats been demonstrated. 
With the above in mind, whilst I accept there were storm conditions on 18 February 2022, on 
balance, Im persuaded the storm highlighted the pre-existing issue with the chimney stack, 
rather than being the dominant or main cause of damage. Consequently, I dont think HDI 
have acted unreasonably by declining Mr Ms claim.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman