DRN-2870965
The complaint
Mr H complains about the remedial work U K Insurance trading as NIG (UK) proposes to 
deal with subsidence at his property.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 1 March 2021, an extract of which is copied 
below:
Mr Hs property was insured by a UKI policy under one of its trading names. As 
UKI is ultimately responsible for this complaint, Ill refer to it throughout.
Both Mr H and UKI are represented by their respective legal advisors in matters 
relating to this claim and complaint. UKI has used a number of agents during the 
life of the claim and references I make to UKIs actions include those of its agents.
The details and circumstances of this long-running claim are well-known to the 
parties involved, so Ill only provide a summary of whats happened.
Mr H made a claim in 2003 following movement and cracking at his property. 
Following UKIs investigations, it concluded the cause was clay shrinkage 
subsidence caused by vegetation. It removed trees and after further monitoring 
carried out remedial and cosmetic repairs in 2007.
Further movement was identified and reported to UKI in 2009 so more monitoring 
was undertaken. Around the end of 2010, it was concluded that a further tree, 
located outside Mr Hs property in the public highway had likely caused clay 
shrinkage subsidence resulting in the latest damage to Mr Hs property.
In 2014 Mr H had a report undertaken by a structural engineer which concluded an 
alternative likely cause of the movement at his property as clay subsoil shrinkage 
at a depth generally below that reached by tree roots, caused by drying of clay 
during periods when the water table dropped below the base of the clay layer 
The engineer said the remedy for this was to underpin the entire house.
UKI declined to underpin the property, saying its engineers believed the trees and 
hedges within the boundaries of Mr Hs home and property B were responsible for the 
recent subsidence. It thought this vegetation should be removed to prevent further 
movement and said it wasnt necessary to underpin the entire property where there 
were still mitigation measures available to it.
Further site investigation work and monitoring of cracks followed through 2017. Mr H 
commissioned a firm of engineering consultants in September 2017 to provide a report 
on the remedial works required. They concluded the installation of a raft foundation to 
the whole house was necessary to provide a consistent foundation to the home.
A further site visit took place in December 2017, after which UKI said its solution to the 
issue was more extensive localised underpinning, robust structural repair, foundation 
strengthening alongside further investigation.
Mr H complained but UKI said its proposed works would remove the cause of the 
damage and the repairs undertaken and would be effective and lasting. It reiterated it 
didnt consider it reasonable to stabilise areas of the property that hadnt suffered loss 
or damage.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint, as he 
was persuaded the installation of a floating raft foundation was the right way to resolve 
the issue and UKI should pay for this. UKI disagreed, saying the raft foundation solution 
would lead to significant betterment to prevent the risk of future damage  which wasnt 
the purpose of the policy. It also pointed out that the cause of the subsidence was still in 
dispute and this should be decided on first before deciding on appropriate repairs.
I went on to say:
Both parties had provided clear opinions about the nature of the damage and the 
remedy required to address it
Their opinions were backed up by detailed reports from qualified engineers who 
disgreed with each others opinions
Having weighed up the opinions, I considered them finely balanced and I wasnt 
satisfied either outweighed or undermined the other
I concluded It was fair for UKI to rely on the expert opinion of its engineer that its 
proposed remedial work would address the subsidence and provide a lasting repair
UKI accepted my provisional decision; Mr H said I should specify which partys evidence I 
found more persuasive or direct UKI to instruct a further, independent report. 
Following this, I issued another provisional decision on 19 March 2021 detailing my revised 
thoughts, taking into account the comments and a further review of all the evidence. An 
extract of my findings is below:
What Ive decided  and why
CKs report 2014 and 2019
Mr H arranged an investigation by a structural engineer in 2014 including a review of the 
claim and the actions of UKIs loss adjusters.
The report that followed said the likely cause of the movement was clay subsoil shrinkage 
at a depth generally below that reached by tree roots, caused by drying of clay during 
periods when the water table dropped below the base of the clay layer. It concluded the 
only way to address this was the installation of a floating raft foundation.
RJs report 2017
In 2017 and later in 2019, Mr H sought the opinion of an engineering consultant - who had 
installed a floating raft foundation in the next door property adjoined to his. He said the 
property had been built in an area where there was made ground and a shallow band of 
clay below this, with gravelly sand at 2.5 metres. In an earlier borehole investigation the 
soil was described as wet, silty sand and gravel and he said in these situations, moisture 
in the clay could vary seasonally as the moisture and water level in the underlying 
granular soil changes.
He also found the reason for the subsidence was because clay subsoil shrinkage had 
occurred at depth, caused by drying of clay layers when the water table was low. He said 
there was also the possibility that continuing consolidation of made ground under the 
foundations was also having an impact.The report concluded the appropriate solution would be to install a raft foundation to the 
whole property as this would allow the property to move as a single unit which would 
remove the stresses and cracks seen. And the consultant didnt agree UKIs proposed 
approach would address the problem.
Ss report 2019
Ss report identifies the most likely reasons for the current damage and the main threats to 
future movement of the property are:
Clay shrinkage due to moisture extracted from the vegetation around the property
Differential movement between Mr Hs property with traditional foundations and the 
adjacent property which is supported by a raft foundation
Differential movement between deep and shallow foundations
The report provides analysis of the results of the monitoring of the main cracks to the 
property and shows there has been no significant movement over the period of 
monitoring. It explains that undertaking robust structural repairs means cracks wont 
reform.
It goes on to look in detail at the results seen in a number of areas of movement 
monitoring around the property and doesnt identify any significant movement at these 
points either. It says movements recorded are generally cyclic and small in nature and 
differential movement between adjacent points is very small.
Where it identifies some small areas of movement, a program of localised underpinning in 
specific areas together with some further investigation is recommended to deal with the 
issue. Additionally, the report recommends either underpinning or the extension of the 
neighbours raft foundation to address issues around the projecting section of the chimney 
and explains this will reduce the risk of damage due to the ongoing movement of the raft 
under the adjacent property.
Ss report says from the results of the site investigation theres no evidence that 
foundations resting on made ground are resulting in the damage to the property as 
suggested by RJ. It acknowledges the possibility the party wall is supported on natural 
ground and the internal wall of Mr Hs property is supported at a higher level on made up 
ground but explains this is addressed by its proposed underpinning of this wall.
It points out RJs report says shrinkage movements are caused by the gravel bed located 
at two and half metres causes the clay above the gravel to dry out. But it says theres no 
evidence to show that the gravel dries out or that any drying out causes drying out of the 
clay over.
Overall, the report concludes that the installation of the floating raft isnt necessary and 
that the proposed program of underpinning and structural repairs will achieve a lasting 
and effective repair.
I have considered all these reports very carefully and, on reflection, I find the analysis and 
explanations provided in Ss report of May 19 to be more persuasive. I accept that 
extending the raft under Mr Hs property is likely to achieve a lasting and effective repair 
too. But Im not persuaded, having considered the reports very carefully, that it is the only 
way to achieve the required standard of repair. On balance, Im satisfied the proposals 
detailed in Ss report are an appropriate way for UKI to address the subsidence and will 
more likely than not provide a lasting and effective solution.
So in line with the policy, UKI should undertake the underpinning and remedial work 
proposed in Ss May 2019 reportUKI added nothing further; Mr H provided further comments and a report from each of his 
engineers. In summary
The first engineer  CK - questioned some of the findings in UKIs engineers 2019 
report but offered no further evidence to consider
The second - RJ - broadly agreed with UKIs engineer proposed underpinning works 
but suggested that UKIs further investigatory bore holes might reveal the need for 
further underpinning work and UKI should include this in its proposed remedial work
He also said if the proposed works didnt address the issue  and he had concerns it 
might not  there should be a mechanism for this to be addressed with further 
remedial work
He sugested the comparative costs of the underpinning and the installation of the 
raft foundation should be considered by UKI, particularly if its proposed solution 
wasnt sucessful and further remedial work was required
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything very carefully, Ive not seen anything which undermines the 
conclusions reached by UKIs expert and its proposed remedial work. 
I acknowledge that while Mr Hs experts broadly agree the proposed program of 
underpinning is a sound basis for an underpinning scheme  subject to the further 
investigation noted below - they also express some concern that the proposed solution may 
not guarantee there will be no future problems. My role is to consider the evidence and the 
circumstances as they are today and Im persuaded the proposed schedule of underpinning 
will more likely than not provide an effective and lasting repair.
If further problems are experienced in the future and the repairs prove not to be lasting and 
effective, that is something UKI will need to reconsider. And it will need to propose 
alternative solutions to address the problem and that might include the raft foundation 
currently proposed by Mr Hs experts.
Mr H has suggested there may not be such a difference in the costing of the underpinning 
and the raft foundation. He says UKI should consider this, particularly in the light of the 
further investigations required which may show the need for further underpinning. Ultimately 
though, the cost of the solutions is not definitive as to how effective they are and decisions 
around the costing of the proposed solutions are a matter for UKI.
I remain satisfied UKIs proposed way forward is fair and reasonable. That includes the 
underpinning work together with the suggested further areas of investigation detailed in its 
experts report of May 2019. If the investigations reveal the need for further underpinning, I 
would expect this to be built into the proposed remedial works.
So in accordance with the what I said in my provisional decision dated 19 March 2021, 
UKI should undertake the proposed underpinning together with further investigations and 
remedial work proposed in Ss May 2019 report.
Mr H will need to allow UKI to carry out these works. But if Mr H doesnt want UKI to carry 
out the repairs, then UKI should provide a cash settlement offer. This offer may be less 
than the market rates Mr H may have to pay as UKI is entitled to benefit from its preferred rates. And so while the individual unit costs might not be made available to Mr H the 
schedule of required works should reflect all claim related damage is accounted for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman