DRN-3375928
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a claim he made on a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S took out the PPI policy in December 2004. Subject to the terms and conditions of the 
policy, Mr S would receive £1,500 per month for up to 12 months if he lost his job or was off 
work sick.
In March 2021, Mr S contacted Aviva to make a claim on the policy. Mr S was a 
self-employed kitchen designer who had to stop working when the Government announced 
the first national lockdown (due to Covid-19) in March 2020. He returned to work in 
May 2021.
Aviva declined Mr Ss claim in March 2021, because:
he hadnt permanently ceased trading and declared it to HM Revenue & Customs 
(HMRC), and
he hadnt registered as unemployed with the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) and wasnt actively seeking work.
It said he had to do both to make a claim for unemployment.
Mr S explained that he couldnt look for work because of the pandemic and didnt register for 
Jobseekers Allowance (JSA) or Universal Credit (UC), but he explained that the 
Government knew he wasnt working because he was in receipt of some Self-Employment 
Income Support Scheme (SEISS) grants. And he asked Aviva to show some common 
sense given the pandemic.
When Aviva wrote to say its position remained the same, Mr S referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair 
for Aviva to decline Mr Ss claim because hed received the SEISS grants.
Mr S doesnt agree and has asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr S will be very disappointed, but I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to decline his 
claim. Ill explain why.
Aviva has provided a copy of the applicable terms and conditions. The policy says those who 
are self-employed can still benefit from the policy if [they] can prove that [they] have 
involuntarily ceased trading. In a section that explains what isnt covered, the policy says:
If you are Self-Employed. [An exclusion mentioned elsewhere] will not apply if you 
have ceased trading because you could not find enough work to meet all your 
reasonable business and living expenses and have declared this to [HMRC].
And under the heading, Things to keep in mind when claiming, it says that to claim for 
unemployment benefits, the policyholder must either have a Jobseekers agreement or 
alternative proof that theyre unemployed and actively seeking work. And if theyre self-
employed, they must provide satisfactory proof that theyve involuntarily ceased trading. In 
this context, unemployed means having no paid work or temporary work and having a 
Jobseekers agreement with [DWP]. 
When Aviva wrote to Mr S in March 2021, it said he had to permanently cease trading. I 
dont think thats what the policy document Ive seen says  but it doesnt make a difference 
to the outcome of this case. 
I say this because Mr S received SEISS grants that covered the period he was out of work. 
To receive the grants, Mr S had to declare that he intended to keep trading in 2020/2021  
which meant he couldnt declare to HMRC that hed ceased trading, even temporarily. And, 
for tax purposes, the grants were treated as trading income. So although Mr S wasnt 
working, during the period he wishes to claim for he was receiving income through his self-
employment. I therefore dont think it was unfair for Aviva to decline his claim.
Mr S says:
Aviva cant reject a claim because of something thats not mentioned in the policy 
document  in other words, as the policy doesnt say he cant claim if hes in receipt 
of Government support, Aviva cant decline his claim;
the grants were limited and nowhere near his usual monthly income;
he took out the policy as income protection, not as mortgage protection, which would 
indicate it was mis-sold; and,
given the unprecedented nature of the pandemic, Aviva should show some basic 
decency and sympathy towards its policyholders.
Ill address his points in the same order.
As Ive explained above, Mr S didnt meet the requirements to make an 
unemployment claim because of the Government support he received and the 
conditions that applied. That the policy doesnt mention the sort of Government 
support Mr S received doesnt change that.
I note that the grants Mr S received were significantly more than he would have 
received if his claim had been accepted. In any event, while I appreciate that the 
grants didnt match his normal monthly income, that isnt a relevant consideration 
here.
When Mr S contacted Aviva, he made a claim on a PPI policy. I can see from the 
information provided that Mr S also has an income protection policy with a different 
business, which is designed to pay a regular income in the event of the life assured 
being unable to work due to ill health or injury. This may explain the confusion. 
However, if Mr S thinks the PPI policy was mis-sold, hell need to speak to the 
business that sold him the policy.I have a great deal of sympathy for all those who were unable to work or were 
otherwise affected by the pandemic. However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think it was unfair for Aviva to decline Mr Ss claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman