DRN-3902887
The complaint
Mr F complains that a timeshare product was misrepresented to him and that the timeshare 
company is in breach of contract. The purchase was financed with credit provided by 
Honeycomb Finance Limited (Honeycomb). Because of that, Mr F says that he has a claim 
against Honeycomb in the same way he has a claim against the timeshare company. 
Mr F has been represented in this complaint, and so any reference to his submissions and 
arguments include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr F bought from Azure Services Limited a timeshare at the Radisson Blu Azure 
resort in Malta. My understanding is that this was a traditional timeshare, where Mr F had the 
use of an identified property for a fixed week each year.
The following year Mr F bought a points based timeshare product and level 3 membership of 
the Azure Experiences Membership Club. He bought 14,175 points (referred to as XPs) at a 
cost of £15,407. XPs could be exchanged for holiday accommodation and experiences, 
including sailing trips, motor home hire, and driving experiences The purchase was financed 
with a 15-year loan from Honeycomb. Honeycomb says that loan was repaid in August 2019.
In or around 2020 Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited went into liquidation. 
In October 2021 Mr F contacted Honeycomb. He said that the XPs had been misrepresented 
to him. He said that, when he was on holiday in 2018 he had expressed an interest in selling 
the timeshare he had bought the previous year. He was invited to attend a meeting to 
discuss that, but it turned out to be a marketing presentation. He was told that XP points 
would give him flexibility which was not available through a traditional timeshare. 
Mr F says he explained that, having taken out a large loan the previous year, he could not 
afford to take out another one. He was told that he could sell the XPs to pay off the previous 
loan. They would be an investment.
Mr F said too that the credit intermediary had close links with Azure Services Limited and 
that this created a conflict of interest. He was not told that Honeycomb would pay 
commission to Azure Services Limited.        
Further, Mr F said, the lending was irresponsible and he was pressured into buying the XPs 
on the day. The result was that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship between 
him and Honeycomb.  
  Honeycomb did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said, in summary:
There was no conflict of interest. Azure Services Limited was a representative of the 
intermediary, Vacation Finance Limited. Both were properly authorised by the FCA. 
They were not connected with Honeycomb. 
Mr F had said that the liquidators had ended the sale and rental schemes in respect of 
the Azure Resorts Limited Heavenly Collection. It had not however financed Mr Fs 
purchase of that membership and had no responsibility for it. Azure XP members 
retained the same rights and benefits they had had before the liquidation.    
Its records showed that Mr P had provided information about his income. He had made 
loan payments on time and repaid the loan early. He had never suggested during the 
currency of the loan or when it was repaid that it was not affordable. 
Mr F had said he would not be able to use the XPs in his lifetime, as he was limited to 
using around 270 a year. That was, however, a minimum usage. He could use more 
than that if he wanted to  until he had used all the XPs he had bought. 
Mr F would have attended a compliance interview and signed a compliance statement. 
He had indicated that he was happy with the service provided and that he was not put 
under any pressure. 
Mr Fs claim had included a claim under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Such a claim can only be brought in court. 
Mr F referred the matter to this service. Our investigator did not recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr F did not accept that assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
 Affordability 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. 
It is clear in this case that Honeycomb did make some checks, since it confirmed Mr Fs 
salary. It is significant too that Mr F repaid the loan after little more than a year, but at no 
point suggested he was having difficulty making payments  even though his initial complaint 
letter to Honeycomb says he had concerns about affordability at the time. I note too that 
Honeycomb says he signed a statement confirming he could afford the payments. 
Those matters do not necessarily show that Honeycomb did carry out appropriate checks 
before agreeing the loan. They do indicate however that Mr F suffered no loss as a result of 
taking out the loan. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the XPs. The loan documents 
refer to three credit intermediaries  Business Brokers Limited; Vacation Finance Limited; 
and Freedom Finance. It appears that the seller was a different company, Azure Services 
Limited. Honeycomb has not suggested however that the necessary arrangements were not in place for sections 56 and 75 to apply, and I have therefore approached the case on the 
assumption that they were. 
I must therefore consider what Mr F has said about breach of contract and 
misrepresentations. 
Breach of contract
Mr F says that the liquidators have closed resale and rental operations in respect of the  
Azure Resorts Limited Heavenly Collection. It does not appear however that Honeycomb 
financed the purchase of Mr Fs membership of that collection. 
It is my understanding that the services linked to Mr Fs purchase of XPs and membership of 
the Azure Experiences Membership Club therefore remain available to him and are 
unaffected by the liquidation of the Azure companies. 
There has been no suggestion of any other breach of contract in this case, and I am not 
persuaded there has been any.  
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr Fs statements about what he was told at the sales presentation are largely unsupported 
by any documentation. For example, there is no evidence of any attempt to sell either the 
timeshare or the XPs. Nor is there any evidence that Mr F has tried to use them and been 
unable to do so. 
Neither party has provided me with a complete set of the sale documents. It is my 
understanding however the Club Rules include information about how to use XPs, including 
the minimum which must be used each year and how to accelerate their usage  that is, 
how to use more than the minimum.    
On the assumption that the sale documents were on Azures standard terms, they would 
have included, at clause 13:
This Agreement shall constitute the sole agreement between the parties and supersedes all 
prior agreements, representations, discussions and negotiations between the parties with 
respect to the subject matter hereof.
In my view, that was an attempt to ensure that anything on which Mr F sought to rely was 
included in the contract itself. I am not persuaded in this case that he was misled, but, if I 
were to take a different view on that, I would need to consider the effect of that provision. 
 Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any linked transaction.I am satisfied that the timeshare agreement in this case was a linked transaction (that is, 
linked to the loan agreement) within the meaning of section 19 of the Act. There was a 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, and the timeshare agreement was financed by the loan.   
Honeycomb says that an ombudsman does not have the power to make an order under 
section 140B. That is correct. I must however take relevant law into account in deciding what 
I consider to be fair and reasonable. And I have the power to make a wide range of awards  
including, for example, requiring a borrower to refund interest or charges, and to write off or 
reduce a loan. I am not persuaded however that I should do so here. 
As Honeycomb says, any links between the Azure companies and the intermediary did not 
create a conflict of interest in respect of the lender. 
I am not persuaded that Mr F bought XPs simply to sell them. I have seen nothing in any 
sales documents relating to investments, but they would have included information about, for 
example, type and standard of accommodation, Club Rules, management fees and the 
connected exchange programme. The reason was that Mr F was buying XPs and club 
membership, not an investment. 
Mr F says too that the sale was pressured. He has not really elaborated on that, but I note 
that Honeycomb says he signed a document confirming he was not put under pressure. Its 
significant too in my view that he had 14 days in which to review the documents and 
withdraw from both the sale and the loan agreement. If he thought he had agreed to either 
as a result of undue pressure, it is not clear to me why he didnt take advantage of the option 
to withdraw.  
Mr F says that he was not provided with details of any commission paid to Honeycomb. He 
does not suggest that he asked about commission, but I have no reason to think he would 
not have been told what it was if he had done so. Honeycomb would have been under a duty 
to provide that information, although it has said its arrangements with Azure did not include 
the payment of commission. 
In any event, Azure Services Limited wasnt acting as Mr Fs agent, but as the seller of the 
XPs and club membership. It also introduced Honeycomb to Mr F, but it does not appear to 
me that it was Azures role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give 
advice or information on that basis. 
I invited both parties to make further submissions, if they wanted to do so. I have however 
received no further evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As I have received nothing further in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach any different conclusion. In saying that, however, I stress that I have considered Mr 
Fs complaint afresh. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint and do not 
require Honeycomb Finance Limited to do anything further to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman