DRN-1822117
 
The complaint
Miss Ds representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(the business). 
In short, the CMC says:
Consideration wasnt given to alternative products.
A more suitable investment wouldve been to invest in a more cautious investment.
Miss D withdrew large sums of money over the years from her two savings policies 
until they were both encashed, suggesting she was advised to invest too much of her 
money.
 
What happened
Miss D was advised to invest in two savings policies.
In June 1995, Miss D was initially advised to invest £10,000 into a Prudence Savings 
Account (PSA). The business maintains this was a low risk With-Profits investment with no 
fixed end date. 
It was recorded in the fact find that: 
Miss D was 50 years of age, in good health and working. 
She had a net monthly income of £1,500, outgoings of £948 and a net disposable 
monthly income of £552. 
She had money held in shares, a PEP, and deposit account.
She wasnt anticipating any changes to her life and wanted to invest for the future. 
 
In December 1996, Miss D was advised to invest a further £50,000 into the PSA. At this 
time, it was recorded that she was retired, and in addition to the above, had another 
£121,000 in a deposit account, making a total of £155,000, and she had a £302 net 
disposable income. In March 1997, Miss D invested another £1,523 into the PSA using 
money from matured savings policies. 
In August 1999, Miss D was advised to invest £20,000 into a Prudential Investment Bond 
(PIB). At the time it was recorded that she was:
54 years of age and retired for three years. 
She had a net monthly disposable income of £207.
She still had a sum of money comprised of, unit-trusts, PEPs and PSA. 
She had £58,000 remaining in a cash deposit account. 
 One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
He was satisfied that in 1995 Miss D had a diversified portfolio comprised of deposit-
based savings, shares, a PEP and a TESSA which suggests that she wanted to 
invest money differently to what she had.
The PSA was invested in a With-Profits funds, and therefore was invested in low risk 
funds compared to funds linked to the stock market. Miss D was also given policy 
documentation that made clear the nature and operation of the PSA so that she 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known how it worked. 
On the face of it, Miss D was prepared to invest in the medium to long term with a 
minimum of five years.
Even though in 1996 Miss D invested another £50,000 into the PSA, this was out of 
£155,000 held in her deposit account, leaving her with at least £75,000 available in 
cash, so leaving her with access to a reasonable amount of cash. 
In 1999, Miss D invested £20,000 in a PIB, in a low risk in With-Profits fund, which 
wasnt outside of her investment experience. And she still had £38,000 left in cash 
reserves. 
Overall, Miss Ds money was spread across cash savings, low risk investments (such 
as the PSA and PIB), unit-trusts/a PEP and individual shares. 
Although the CMC says Miss D withdrew large portions of her money over 11 years 
and withdrew most of it in 2014, this doesnt mean she was given unsuitable advice. 
Miss D at the point of sale in 1995 and 1999 didnt anticipate any changes to her 
financial circumstances, so its unlikely the adviser wouldve foreseen any changes at 
the time. 
 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It maintains that Miss D was advised 
to invest too much money without any diversification. It also says that Miss D doesnt 
understand the investigators view, despite its efforts to explain the reasons. It said Miss D 
made the following points:
Her husbands health situation is worse. A lot has happened over the last year 
including her being diagnosed with breast cancer (resulting in a full mastectomy) and 
her mother going into care.
Any money would be helpful to her right now. She is hanging by a thread.
She finds the investigators view very confusing. 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im not persuaded 
that the advice to invest in the PSA and the PIB was unsuitable, even if there were other 
options available. But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Miss Ds strength of feeling about this matter. Im very sorry to hear about 
her ill health and what shes been through with her mother and family member who is now 
deceased. 
The CMC has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Miss D wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what the CMC says Im broadly 
satisfied that in 1995 Miss D was prepared to invest in the PSA in the medium to long term 
but for a minimum of five years. I note the business says she wanted to invest for at least 10 
years leading her into retirement as she was still working at time, so Im unable to say that a 
policy with no end date was unsuitable in the circumstances. 
Although I wouldnt regard Miss D to be an experienced investor, Im mindful that she wasnt 
without financial experience. I note she had money in savings, shares/a PEP as well as 
money held in a deposit account. Her objective was clear in that she wanted to invest for 
gain and for the future, and overall, Im satisfied the recommendation met this need. 
In the circumstances Im not persuaded that she wasnt aware of alternatives, Im reasonably 
satisfied that she wanted to invest in something that she hadnt invested in before but was 
still broadly in line with her attitude to risk. I also note that after investing £10,000 she still 
had access to a reasonable amount of cash. So, Im unable to say that the recommendation 
was unsuitable. 
I note the points the CMC makes about investing in a more cautious investment, I should 
make clear from the outset that Im not specifically looking at whether Miss D was a 
low/cautious risk investor or whether the recommendations were. Im considering if the 
recommendations were generally suitable for her and on balance, Im satisfied that they 
were.
In other words, Miss D wanted to invest her money for growth, which I think she was unlikely 
to achieve without taking some risk. I note that she was aware that her investment could go 
up or down. Im not persuaded that she was risk averse, and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that any guarantees were given to her. So, in the circumstances Im unable to say she was 
advised to take an unsuitable risk given her overall objectives.
Im conscious Miss D was given policy documentation including the Key Features Document 
that made clear the nature and operation of the PSA, and therefore she knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, about what the product entailed. So, if there was anything that 
she was unhappy with she had the opportunity to seek clarification or cancel the policy. 
Instead, around 18 months later, in 1996 Miss D invested another £50,000 into the PSA. 
Although this was much higher than what shed invested previously, I note that she had 
£155,000 held in a cash deposit account, and still had £75,000 remaining. In the 
circumstances Im satisfied that she still had access to a reasonable amount of cash and was comfortable in re-investing in a policy shed invested in 18 months or so earlier. I also 
note that she went on to invest another £1,523 a year or so later using some of the proceeds 
from PruSave policies. This doesnt suggest to me that she was unhappy with the PSA or 
had any liquidity issues. 
Before I move on to the second policy, I ought to address what happened with the PSA in 
terms of withdrawals. I note in May 2003, Miss D made the first withdrawal of £10,000 which 
was roughly just under eight years after she first invested, which seems to me to be broadly 
in line with her investment objectives at the time. 
I note that there were further withdrawals  £48,000 between then and November 2003  
eight years from the policy start and six/seven years from the policy top-ups, but in my 
opinion, this isnt evidence that she was given unsuitable advice.
On the face of the evidence, there was no suggestion that the money would generally 
remain invested for any longer than these periods. And if there was a reason why Miss D 
needed the money  which Miss D alluded to in a complaint letter  it certainly wasnt clear 
at the point of sale (or top-ups) and therefore I dont think couldve been foreseen by the 
business. 
Im aware Miss D says she made some large withdrawals to help a family friend whod 
become terminally ill, and her own mother ended up in a nursing home, but this isnt 
something that couldve been foreseen by the business, and not unless she made this clear 
that shed need money for these particular purposes. So, whilst Im sorry for everything Miss 
D had suffered, including her own ill health, Im unable to say the recommendation made in 
1995 and the subsequent top-ups were unsuitable for her based on the withdrawals made. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im also satisfied 
that the recommendation to invest in the PIB was suitable. Im satisfied the recommendation 
met her objective for growth and didnt involve any more risk that she was willing to take at 
the time. I note it was recorded that her attitude to risk was very cautious, which I dont think 
is unusual given that she was three years into retirement. 
I note the CMC complains that Miss D shouldnt have been advised to invest in a medium 
risk product but I note the business has confirmed that its a low risk investment, so it might 
well be that the CMC was mistaken, and its concerns are unfounded. 
In any event, I note Miss D still had £58,000 in her savings account, and even after her 
investment had access to a reasonable amount of money available for emergencies during 
her retirement. I also note she had no plan for the remainder of her savings and certainly no 
suggestion that shed need the money to help friends and family. And despite what the CMC 
says there still appears to be no issues surrounding liquidity of her assets. 
But even if she did need money, I note she was able to access it from the PIB, if she needed 
it, even though it was recommended that she keep the money for at least five years. I note 
that in 2014, Miss D withdrew £10,000, roughly 14 years after the policy started. Im mindful 
she started to withdraw money from the PSA four or five years after investing in the PIB, but 
still kept the PIB without making any withdrawals until 2014. Whish suggests she was happy 
to keep her investments for a minimum of five or six years (or much longer) before making 
any withdrawals. 
Im mindful that Miss D is upset about being told that she was making withdrawals without 
permission to do so, and that she feels thats shes free to do what she wishes with her own 
money. I note the business is sorry if this is what was communicated to her, and that it 
wouldnt have done so purposefully to offend her, but its still unable to locate any correspondence suggesting that this is what was said. Whilst I agree it was Miss Ds money 
and she is free to do what she wishes, even if this statement was made it doesnt mean she 
was given unsuitable advice. 
I appreciate the point the CMC makes about diversity and Im aware of its benefits and 
disadvantages, but overall, Im satisfied that Miss Ds money was invested in a number of 
products broadly within her risk attitude. Given her circumstances and that she was in 
retirement Im unable to say that the recommendations were wrong for her. 
I appreciate Miss D will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6July2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman