DRN-4496136
The complaint
Mrs W complains that J.P. Morgan Limited trading as Chase didnt do enough to protect her 
from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the 
money once shed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In August 2022, Mrs W saw an online advertisement for an investment company Ill refer to 
as O. O was endorsed by two well-known celebrities and Mrs W could see the website 
appeared near the top of the search results and mimicked that of a genuine company. The 
home page advised that O was a leading cryptocurrency market trader and featured 
separate sections for complaints, enquiries, and About Us. The contact us page claimed O 
had multiple offices around the world and Mrs W was satisfied there no negative reviews or 
anything to indicate it was a scam.
Mrs W provided her contact details and received a call from someone claiming to work for O, 
who Ill refer to as the scammer. She told the scammer she hadnt invested before and that 
she had some savings, and the scammer told her she could invest as little as £250. He also 
said she could withdraw her profits whenever she liked and that she would be assigned a 
senior account manager who would give her a username and password for her account. 
Mrs W made an initial payment of £250 from another account and was then contacted by 
someone claiming to be her account manager. He told her hed been working in the finance 
industry for years and that hed made lots of money. He used technical language about 
trades and said he liked to build relationships with his clients as he believed trust was key. 
The account manager advised Mrs W to download AnyDesk remote access software to her 
device. He told her he would take a commission from successful trades at a rate she thought 
was reasonable and the more she invested, the higher the returns she would make.
The account manager told Mrs W she should trade in cryptocurrency to accumulate great 
profits. He told her to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company Ill refer to as F and that it would be moved to an online wallet on the trading 
platform. Between 16 September 2022 and 15 October 2022 she made several payments 
from her other account totalling £46,739. 
Mrs W continued to make profits, and on 1 December 2022, the account manager told her O 
was going to liquidate her account and that he would help her to withdraw her funds before 
22 December 2022, which she paid in part from her Chase account, which she had opened 
on the scammers advice because it meant she could move larger sums in a shorter time. 
Mrs W opened the Chase account on 14 December 2022 and between 14 December 2022 
and 29 December 2022, she made seven transfers from that account totalling £37,918. 
She eventually realised shed been scammed when she didnt receive any funds into her 
account. She complained to Chase but it refused to refund any of the money shed lost, 
stating shed received a payment alert telling her to ensure appropriate due diligence before 
paying a new payee.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. She said Chase had failed to ask probing questions or provide an effective 
warning. She said she wanted it to refund the money she lost to the scam and pay her £500 
compensation and legal fees.
Her representative said Chase had failed to raise a chargeback request. The also argued 
that Mrs W had made seven payments to a new payee linked to cryptocurrency that totalled 
£37,918 within the space of two weeks. They said there was no payment history to compare 
the payments with, but the spending matched a known fraud pattern i.e. large amounts of 
funds leaving the account to a new payee in quick succession. 
The representative said that on 14 December 2022, Mrs W received £9,922 into the account 
and then transferred £9,900 out of the account the following day, after which the payments 
increased in frequency and size. On 15 December 2022, she received £6,078 into the 
account and transferred the same amount to the scam the same day. They argued this 
pattern of spending is a known fraud indicator, and Chase should have asked probing 
questions about the purpose of the payments.
Chase further commented that Mrs Ws account was blocked when she tried to make the 
first payment of £9,900 and during the subsequent call she said she was buying bitcoin as a 
present for herself and it had been recommended by her brother. She was asked if she 
trusted the recipient and she said shed done research and wasnt being pressured or 
coerced to make the payment. She was told the payments would be difficult to retrieve if it 
turned out to be a scam and she was happy for the funds to be released.
On 15 December 2022, Mrs W made a further payment of £6,078 which was also blocked. In 
that call, Mrs W said shed made regular payments to F from her other bank and had been 
doing it for some time. Later that day she made another payment for £3,940, which was also 
blocked and in the subsequent call Mrs W said shed had a relationship with the payee for 
some time.
On 29 December 2022, Chase contacted Mrs W when she made another payment for 
£5,000. During the call she said F was a trusted payee and shed been dealing with them 
since last August or July. The payment didnt contain a reference, so she asked for it to be 
cancelled so she could resubmit the payment with a valid reference. Chase provided further 
information on the risks of investing in cryptocurrency and transferring funds via faster 
payment.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
Chases T&Cs explain that if a customer was tricked into sending someone money for what 
they thought was a genuine purpose, but turned out to be fraudulent, theyd get their money 
back unless they shouldve known they were being tricked. She accepted Chase had 
questioned Mrs W about the payments but she noted it didnt ask if anyone was helping or 
advising her and without this ever being discussed she didnt think Mrs W could be expected 
to know about the very high risks associated with cryptocurrency.
She was satisfied there was nothing to indicate that O was a scam when Mrs W made the 
first payment such as poor reviews or warnings on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
website. Mrs W seen the scammers name on Os website and she didnt know that a 
celebrity endorsed investment would indicate it was a scam. Further, before making the payments from her Chase account, Mrs W had received £4,234 credits into her other 
account from the investment. So, our investigator didnt think Mrs W shouldve known she 
was being tricked into sending money to a fraudster therefore she recommended Chase 
should refund the money shed lost and pay her £250 compensation.
Chase has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It has argued that the 
T&Cs should only stand if it did nothing to make Mrs W realise she was being scammed and 
it had done all it could to make sure she was informed based on the information she had 
provided.
It doesnt accept Mrs W wouldnt have gone ahead with the payments if it had told her that 
investments made via a broker were high risk and has argued that she gave a plausible 
explanation as to why she was investing and was insistent on making the payments, so 
further questions wouldnt have stopped her from wanting to make the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mrs W says shes fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances.  But the CRM code didnt apply in this case 
because Mrs W was paying an account in her own name.
Im satisfied Mrs W authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of her bank account, Mrs W is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute that this was a scam, although Mrs W didnt intend her money to go to 
scammers, she did authorise the disputed payments. Chase is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
The payments did flag as suspicious and there were several calls during which Chase 
discussed the payments with Mrs W. Unfortunately, there were key facts about the 
circumstances of the investment which didnt come to light during the calls and this meant 
Chase was unable to detect that the payments were being made to a scam.
However, Chases T&Cs state if, taking everything into account when the payment was
made, we find you should've known you were being tricked into sending money to a
fraudster you wont get a refund. So, Ive considered whether Mrs W should have known 
she was being tricked when she made the payments.
Chase has argued that Mrs W was insistent on making the payments, so further questions 
wouldnt have stopped her from wanting to make the payment. It has also said that she 
wasnt honest during the calls she had with it and it did all it could to protect her based on 
the information it had. I accept that during the first call Mrs W didnt tell the call handler that she was being assisted 
by a third party and this meant Chase was unable to detect the scam. But she did mention 
having an account manager in the third call and she wasnt directly asked whether she was 
being assisted by a third party or if she had a broker or an account manager, so I dont think 
she deliberately misled Chase on this point. And I think more probing questions around the 
circumstances of the investment might have uncovered key information including the fact 
shed been told to download AnyDesk which would have assisted the call handler to identify 
that she was being scammed. 
Further, while I accept Mrs W was given some scam advice, I dont accept the warnings 
were robust or effective enough to have brought to her attention the fact she was being 
scammed. And she didnt ignore advice to do more checks before going ahead with the 
payments, she was merely asked to confirm that shed done due diligence, which she 
thought she had.
This was a sophisticated scam and Mrs W didnt know celebrity endorsements and the use 
of AnyDesk were red flags. She didnt see any negative reviews about O and while there 
was an FCA warning, this post-dated her first payment to the scam, and she wouldnt 
necessarily have known to check the FCA register. Mrs W was satisfied that Os website 
was at the top of the search results and appeared genuine and she was impressed by what 
the account manager had said about his experience. Significantly, she believed what she 
was told about the fees she was being required to pay and had received credits into her 
other account from the investment. She thought the account managers commission was 
reasonable and it wasnt unreasonable that she believed the more she invested, the higher 
the returns she would make.  
So, having considered all of the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable that Mrs W 
failed to identify some of the warning signs that she was being scammed and I dont think 
the circumstances were such that she shouldve known she was bring tricked. Because of 
this, I agree with our investigator that Chase should refund the money Mrs W lost to the 
scam.
Compensation
Finally, our investigator has recommended that Chase should pay Mrs W £250 
compensation and Im satisfied thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited
trading as Chase should refund the money Mrs W lost from the first payment onwards plus 
8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of settlement.
*If J.P. Morgan Limited trading as Chase deducts tax in relation to the interest element of 
this award it should provide Mrs W with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman