DRN-2714724
The complaint
Mr D complains about the price BUPA Insurance Limited charged him to renew his personal 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D has a BUPA By You personal private medical insurance policy. The policy renews 
each year in December. During the 2018-19 policy year, Mr D paid around £3700 for his 
policy. During that policy year, Mr D began suffering from a sore throat. He was referred to a 
specialist and made a claim on his policy, which BUPA approved. Mr D underwent an MRI 
scan to look into his symptoms and had a number of examinations. Mr D had to pay an 
applicable policy excess of £1000. BUPA paid out an amount of around £1200 over and 
above Mr Ds excess for his treatment.
At Mr Ds 2019 renewal, he was quoted a price of around £5300, an increase in premium of 
around 42.5%. Mr D was unhappy with the quote and he complained to BUPA. It explained 
that part of the price rise was due to an annual inflation increase of 12.5%, which applied to 
all scheme members in the same circumstances as Mr D. And it explained the remainder of 
the increase was due to Mr Ds No Claims Discount (NCD) reducing from 70% to 62%, as a 
result of the claim payments itd made.
Mr D remained unhappy with BUPAs decision. He asked BUPA if he could reimburse it for 
the claim payments itd made, so that his NCD could be reinstated to 70% and his premium 
could be recalculated accordingly. BUPA said that its terms and conditions stated that once 
its paid a claim, the claim cant be withdrawn. So it said that it couldnt agree to Mr Ds 
suggestion. Mr D asked us to look into his complaint, as he didnt feel BUPA had treated him 
fairly.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She felt that the policy terms 
made it clear that once BUPA had made any payments towards treatment, a claim couldnt 
be withdrawn. She felt BUPA had treated Mr D fairly.
Mr D disagreed. Ive summarised his response. He considered BUPA had treated him 
unfairly and that it was taking financial advantage of him over a three-year period, because 
thats the time it would take him to return to 70% NCD. He felt the explanations BUPA had 
given him as to why it wouldnt allow him to repay its outlay and reinstate his NCD were 
flawed and unreasonable. He felt the policy term wouldnt stand up to scrutiny by a 
reasonable person. He said he hadnt had any notification that his claim had been closed 
and was acting under the belief that further tests might be a possibility. He wanted BUPA to 
reconsider his request and accordingly recalculate his premiums. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, I dont think BUPA has treated him 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr D that while Ive summarised his detailed response to our 
investigator, Ive carefully read and considered everything hes said and sent us. In making 
my decision though, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues. This means I havent 
commented on each and every one of Mr Ds specific points.
It seems to me that the key issues for me to decide are whether BUPA calculated Mr Ds 
2019-20 renewal premium fairly and whether it was fair for it to turn down Mr Ds request to 
repay its claims outlay and reinstate his original NCD of 70%.
Did BUPA calculate Mr Ds renewal premium fairly?
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like this. We dont generally tell 
insurers what risks they should insure, how they should calculate risk or what risk factors 
they can take into account. And we dont generally tell them what price they should charge to 
cover those risks. BUPAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to carry on insuring Mr D 
after it reassesses the risk of a claim at each renewal. And, if it does, what price it needs to 
charge him to cover the risk. If it believes the risk has gone up, then its likely that it may well 
need to put up the price. But what I have been able to check for Mr D is whether or not 
BUPAs worked out its price fairly. So Ive looked at the factors BUPA has applied to 
calculate the premium. I also need to be satisfied that BUPAs treated Mr D in the same way 
as any other policyholder BUPA insures in the same circumstances and hasnt singled him 
out in any way. 
BUPAs explained the reasons why Mr Ds premium increased. Its clear that BUPA has 
applied a general inflationary increase of 12.5% to Mr Ds scheme, which applies to all of its 
policyholders in the same circumstances as Mr D.  This meant the overall cost of the policy 
went up. But its clear that the reduction in Mr Ds NCD from 70% to 62% is the main reason 
why the price has risen substantially. Mr Ds renewal documents explain BUPAs NCD scale 
and set out how it will calculate a reduction in a policyholders NCD. Its clear that if BUPA 
approves a claim for payment of over £500, a policyholder will move down the scale by three 
levels. In Mr Ds case, BUPA paid out around £1200, which means that his NCD moved 
down three levels. On BUPAs scale, a downwards movement of three levels from 70% is 
equal to 62%. So I think it was entitled to reduce his NCD accordingly.
Based on what Ive seen, I think BUPAs treated Mr D in the same way it would treat any 
policyholder in similar circumstances. Im satisfied its worked out Mr Ds price in line with its 
internal guidelines and that its done this correctly. So I dont think BUPA has calculated his 
premium unfairly.
Is it fair for BUPA to turn down Mr Ds request to repay its outlay and reinstate his original 
NCD?
I appreciate that Mr D feels very strongly that BUPA is financially disadvantaging him by 
applying an NCD of 62%, as he wont be able to regain an NCD of this level for a three-year 
period. And Im aware that he considers BUPA is treating him unfairly by not allowing him to 
repay its claims outlay for his 2019 claim and reinstate his NCD. So Ive looked carefully at 
the terms of Mr Ds policy as this forms the basis of his contract with BUPA. One of the 
terms in the Paying the Claim section of the policy says:If you wish to withdraw your claim, you should call the helpline to tell us as soon as possible. 
You will be unable to withdraw if we have already paid the claim. If you do withdraw your 
claim you will be responsible for paying the costs of that Treatment.
Mr D feels his claim was left open, as no diagnosis was made and his specialist had told him 
to revisit if his symptoms recurred over the next few months. So I understand he feels its 
unfair for BUPA to rely on this term. I disagree with Mr Ds interpretation of this term though. 
His claim was for investigation into a sore throat. BUPA paid out some costs for his 
treatment under this claim. Even if Mr D experienced further similar symptoms in the future 
and sought further BUPA-covered treatment for the same condition, it remains the case that 
I think it was fair for BUPA to conclude that itd already paid out for at least part of Mr Ds 
claim. And Im not persuaded that this is an unfair or significant term in itself.
Im also aware that Mr D was unhappy with the explanations he was given as to why BUPA 
wouldnt allow him to repay its outlay and reinstate his NCD. I think BUPA has made a 
commercial decision not to allow claims to be withdrawn as a legitimate exercise of its 
discretion. I dont think the explanations BUPA gave Mr D were inherently unreasonable and 
I wouldnt expect it to provide explanations of its confidential commercial considerations to its 
policyholders.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ds position, as Im aware that the price increase was 
significant, I think BUPA has calculated his premium fairly. And I dont think it treated him 
unfairly when it refused to allow him to repay its outlay and accordingly reinstate his NCD. 
This means Im not telling BUPA to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman