DRN-1188382
 
The complaint
Miss E has complained about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it settled a claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss E was involved in a motor accident in June 2019. When Mulsanne looked into the claim 
it held her at fault. As Miss E wasnt happy about this she complained to Mulsanne and then 
this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. She thought 
Mulsanne had looked into the circumstances surrounding the claim and reached a 
reasonable view about liability. So she didnt think that it had done anything wrong.
As Miss E didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Miss E is unhappy about how liability was settled as she was at the 
scene and knows what happened. But, as explained by the investigator, it isnt the role of 
this service to decide liability, as that is a matter for the courts. Mulsanne, like most 
insurance companies, has the right to take over the settlement of the claim. This means it 
can decide whether to settle a claim or take the third party to court. Insurers use their skill 
and knowledge in this area to decide whether it would be commercially sensible to defend 
their consumer if the matter went to court.
But this service does expect insurers to act fairly in deciding whether to settle or pursue a 
third party or to settle a claim. So, Id expect Mulsanne to make a reasonable assessment of 
the available evidence and the circumstances surrounding the incident. 
With this in mind Ive considered how Mulsanne has handled Miss Es claim. And Im 
satisfied it carried out a reasonable investigation and took account of all the available 
evidence. 
The third party held Miss E responsible as she moved from a parked position at the side of 
the road into their path. While Miss E believed the other driver was at fault as he hit her from 
behind and then veered across the road and hit another parked car. 
The difficulty with this case is that there isnt any independent evidence to support Miss Es 
position  like dashcam/CCTV footage or any independent witness evidence. And as she 
was moving from a stationary position into the path of the other driver I cant say that 
Mulsanne has acted unreasonably. Ive considered the photos taken just after the accident and the accounts by both sides and I think it would be very difficult for Mulsanne to fully 
defend her at court. The other driver was established on the road, and she had a duty to 
ensure that the road was clear before she pulled out. As such, I dont think Mulsanne has 
done anything wrong.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman