DRN-3502369
The complaint
Miss G complains Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited wrongly declined her legal 
expenses insurance claim at first. Shes unhappy about the time it took for her claim to be 
accepted. And shes concerned her claim wouldnt have been accepted at all if she hadnt 
challenged the initial decision.
Where I refer to Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA), I include their agents and 
claims handlers. 
What happened
Miss G took out legal expenses insurance (LEI) with RSA on 1 December 2018 and renewed 
it each year after that. In November 2021 she made a claim on the policy for her costs in 
bringing a professional negligence claim against her solicitors in connection with their 
handling of an employment claim. 
RSA initially declined the claim on grounds it related to a dispute that existed before Miss G 
took out the policy. Miss G didnt agree and was upset by the decision. RSA referred things 
to their underwriters to review. Miss G complained then that the claims handler had wrongly 
declined the claim. She was concerned the claims handler was making a legal decision 
about cover whilst acknowledging they lacked legal training.
On review, the underwriters agreed Miss Gs claim was covered. So, RSA referred it to their 
panel solicitors to consider whether it had reasonable prospects of success and was 
proportionate to pursue in line with the terms of the policy. RSA apologised for the delay in 
accepting Miss Gs claim. But they didnt uphold her complaint. They said theyd considered 
her claim correctly, had acted in a fair and reasonable way and the delay hadnt impacted 
her claim. 
Miss G was unhappy with RSAs decision. So, she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Miss G felt the claims handler ought to have been able to come to the 
right decision initially; their failure to do so had led to delay; and if she hadnt challenged the 
initial decision, her claim wouldnt have been accepted at all. 
Our investigator said we wouldnt expect a claims handler to be legally trained given their 
role. We can only consider what actually happened, not what might have happened if Miss G 
hadnt challenged the decision. Although RSA changed their decision about covering the 
claim, Miss Gs position wasnt prejudiced by them declining it initially. And her claim wasnt 
delayed unreasonably. In the circumstances she didnt think RSA needed to take any further 
action. Since Miss G didnt accept our investigators view, her complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with relevant Financial Conduct Authority rules we expect insurers to consider a claim 
promptly and fairly and not to unreasonably decline a claim. Ive considered Miss Gs 
complaint against this background.
RSAs explained LEI claims go through a two-stage assessment process. Firstly, they 
consider if the policy is valid, the claim arose within the period of cover and there is a section 
in the policy that covers the claim. Secondly, they seek a legal opinion on whether the claim 
has reasonable prospects of success and is proportionate to pursue in line with the terms of 
the policy, and, potentially, on policy cover and any policy exclusions. This is a common 
process for LEI insurers to follow and I dont think it was unreasonable RSA followed it in 
Miss Gs case.
The RSA claims handler was involved in the first stage of the process. I wouldnt expect 
them to have had legal training to consider when the event Miss G was claiming about 
occurred and whether it fell within the definition of Date of occurrence in the policy. 
The claims handler took the view that the relevant event had occurred on 30 November 
2018, before the policy began the following day. Miss G said it couldnt have occurred until   
1 December and explained why. Since Miss G disagreed, the claims handler said she would 
ask the underwriters to review her decision to decline the claim.
I understand Miss G was upset by the claims handlers decision. And she was concerned, 
broadly, about the wider implications decisions by inexperienced claims handlers might have 
for other policyholders. But I only have the power to consider Miss Gs individual complaint. 
And I can only look at what actually happened, not what might have happened if Miss G 
hadnt challenged the claims handlers initial decision. Although the claims handler came to 
the wrong decision about cover, they promptly checked things with underwriters when     
Miss G challenged them. I think that was a reasonable and fair step to take.
Ive considered the time things took. Following Miss Gs claim at the end of November 2021, 
the claims handler asked for standard information to consider the claim in mid-December. 
That request could have been made more quickly. But the initial decision on cover followed 
within around ten days of Miss Gs response. Bearing in mind the festive period intervened, I 
think that was reasonable. When Miss G then challenged the decision, the underwriters 
reviewed things promptly and confirmed cover, subject to the legal review, around a week 
later. Overall, I dont think the time things took was unreasonable.
RSA apologised for the delay in accepting Miss Gs claim. Im not aware Miss G was 
prejudiced by what happened. I acknowledge it will have been upsetting her claim wasnt 
accepted initially bearing in mind the events that led to her claim on the policy in the first 
place. But, on balance, I think RSAs apology is enough to put things right. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Miss G will be disappointed, I wont ask RSA 
to do anything further. And I dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman