DRN-3975370
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the advice given by Grove Pensions Solutions Limited (Grove) to 
transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. She says she was told shed be better off by transferring but this isnt the 
case - she believes shes suffered a financial loss.
What happened
Our investigator thought that the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider Mrs Ks 
complaint and that it should be upheld. Grove disagreed with the investigators opinion, so 
the complaint was then passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision saying that the Financial Ombudsman Service could 
consider Mrs Ks complaint, but that it shouldnt be upheld. A copy of the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings are set out below in italics and form part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Mrs K approached Grove in November 2014 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. 
Mrs K sought advice because she was interested in accessing her pension benefits to raise 
a lump sum to carry out repairs to her home and repay some debts.
Grove completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Ks circumstances and 
objectives. Briefly  Mrs K was 58 years old; she was married; she was working; she owned 
her home jointly with her husband who was in poor health and wasnt working; their 
outstanding mortgage was around £110,000; and Mrs K had credit card debt of just under 
£8,000. Grove also carried out an assessment of Mrs Ks attitude to risk, which it deemed to 
be very cautious.
On 4 December 2014, Grove advised Mrs K to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
pension drawdown contract to facilitate the release of the maximum tax-free cash lump sum 
as well as a one-off income payment. The proceeds were invested in a cash-based fund in 
line with Mrs Ks attitude to risk. In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were that while it was an expensive way to raise funds, and Mrs Ks overall 
pension provision would suffer as a result, transferring to a personal pension arrangement 
was the only way to raise as much money as possible to enable Mrs K to meet her objective 
of repairing her home and repaying debts. It also said that the remaining fund should remain 
invested to provide Mrs K with an income at her selected retirement age of 61.
In January 2015 Mrs Ks pension transfer took place and around £114,500 was transferred 
to her new personal pension from which she received around £34,000.
Between 2017 and 2019 Mrs K made a series of further withdrawals from her pension 
reducing her fund to almost nil in 2019.
In 2020 Mrs K complained to Grove, via a representative, about the suitability of the transfer 
advice. Mrs K said that she was told by Grove that she would make more money by 
transferring than her current pension would provide.
Grove didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. It provided a substantive response  but in summary 
it said that its recommendation was carefully considered taking account of Mrs Ks needs 
and circumstances at the time as well as her cautious attitude to risk. It said the 
recommendation was suitable - it had considered and discussed the alternative ways of 
raising funds and Mrs K urgently needed to make repairs to her home and clear her debts to 
reduce the impact on her husbands ill-health. It said Mrs K was made aware that the 
transfer would significantly reduce her overall pension benefits.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mrs K referred his complaint to our service.
Following submission of its business file, Grove said that it believed Mrs Ks complaint had 
been brought out of time and it didnt consent to our consideration of the complaint.
An investigator said that they thought the complaint had been brought in time. In summary 
they said that while Mrs K said that she didnt know she could complain until 2020 after 
speaking to a friend, given the basis of Mrs Ks complaint, they thought she ought 
reasonably to have known she had cause for complaint in 2019 when her pension fund was 
all but exhausted. Because she complained to Grove in 2020, which was within three years 
of this date, Mrs Ks complaint was one we could consider.
The investigator went on to explain why they thought it should be upheld and Grove should 
pay Mrs K compensation. In summary they said the recommendation wasnt suitable 
because, while the transfer was based on attempting to meet Mrs Ks short-term financial 
objectives, Grove shouldve considered and advised her on what was best for her financially 
in the long-term. They added that recommending something, which partly met her immediate 
objectives had left her worse off as a result.
Grove disagreed. In summary it maintained its view that Mrs Ks complaint was out of time 
as it was brought more than six years after the advice and more than three years after she 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known that the transaction would leave her worse off in 
retirement. It said it was unreasonable to rely on a false assertion that Mrs K was told at the 
time shed be better off by transferring and said common sense dictates that spending 
money to meet immediate needs would result in being worse off later on. But it said in any 
event it believes the recommendation was suitable because it met her objectives and it 
cautioned her to leave some funds in place for her eventual retirement.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
The jurisdiction of this complaint, and why I currently think it was brought in time
While it is necessary for me to address the matter of jurisdiction and our time limits given the 
disagreement about whether Mrs Ks complaint has been brought in time or not, because in any event I dont intend to uphold Mrs Ks complaint, in the interest of being pragmatic I have 
kept my reasoning on this point relatively brief.
The relevant time limits for bringing a complaint to this service are set out in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section of the FCAs handbook at DISP 2.8. It is these time limits I must 
apply when considering if Mrs Ks complaint was brought in time.
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service: 
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably                                     
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
Its not disputed that Mrs Ks complaint was referred to this service more than six years after 
the event shes complaining about - the advice she received to transfer her DB scheme 
benefits in December 2014.
But the three-year period set out at DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially extend the deadline 
for complaining depending on when a complainant become aware, or ought to reasonably 
have become aware, they had cause for complaint. So, Ive considered when Mrs K was 
aware, or she ought reasonably to have been aware, she had cause to complain.
The crux of Mrs Ks complaint is that she says she was told by Grove that shed make more 
money by transferring than her current pension would provide. Mrs K said she only became 
aware she had cause for complaint in 2020 when she spoke to a friend  she said she didnt 
know she could complain prior to this. I dont think thats plausible. I think Mrs K ought 
reasonably to have known that she could complain  I think a typical consumer of a financial 
product would understand this.
Mrs K began accessing her pension benefits again in 2017 and continued to do so with 
some regularity until mid-2019. While doing so, Mrs Ks pension statements up until 
February 2018 showed that despite taking withdrawals, she could still expect a pension from 
the residual amount at her chosen retirement date of broadly the same amount as her DB 
scheme wouldve provided had she taken early retirement instead. But by February 2018, 
Mrs Ks pension statement shows that, following this latest withdrawal the income she could 
expect at retirement was significantly lower. So while I agree with the investigator that Mrs K 
shouldve been aware she had cause for complaint in 2019 when she exhausted her pension 
fund, I think the point at which she ought reasonably to have been aware she had cause for 
complaint - given what she has said her complaint is - was earlier and in February 2018. But 
either way, because Mrs K complained in December 2020, Im satisfied her complaint was 
made in time and is one we can consider.
What Ive provisionally decided about the merits of the complaint  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.
This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here. 
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive provisionally decided to not 
uphold the complaint or make any award in Mrs Ks favour. My reason are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Grove should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Ms Ks 
best interests.
Financial viability
In many cases the financial viability of the transfer, or the likelihood of improving on the 
benefits being given up by transferring out of the DB pension scheme, would be a key 
consideration in the overall suitability of the transfer advice. This would involve looking at the 
analysis produced by the advising business at the time and the critical yield, or growth rate 
required to replicate the DB scheme benefits to determine how likely it would be that a 
consumer would be better off in retirement as a result of transferring.
But in this case, and despite what Mrs K and her representative said in their complaint to 
Grove, it wasnt recommending the transfer because it thought Mrs K would be better in 
retirement  it recommended the transfer so Mrs K could meet her objective of raising a 
lump sum to meet an immediate and pressing need instead. And while Grove still produced 
this analysis to calculate a growth figure Mrs K needed to match her DB scheme benefits, it 
acknowledged in its advice that it wasnt financially viable.
Groves suitability report of 4 December 2014 said that the critical yield in Mrs Ks case was 
more than 14% to replicate her DB scheme benefits at age 60, which it said was high. It said 
this analysis was of less relevance to Mrs K because she was seeking to access her pension 
monies immediately rather than invest them all for a later date. But it also said: it does give an indication to the level and quality of pension you are giving 
up by releasing funds early and shows the transfer option is not good value. Taking into 
account your attitude to investment risk this Critical Yield definitely would not be achievable. 
You should therefore be in no doubt that this transfer does not represent good value and 
your overall pension provision will suffer as a result of this transaction.
So because Grove recommended the transfer for another reason and financially viability isnt 
the only consideration when giving transfer advice  there might be other considerations 
which mean a transfer is suitable despite providing overall lower benefits  Ive considered 
this below.
Access to the maximum possible cash lump sum and flexibility
The advice paperwork from the time is, in my view clear about Mrs Ks objective  she 
needed access to a cash lump sum to make repairs to her home and reduce her mortgage 
by as much as possible. Grove documented that the repairs to Mrs Ks home were urgent 
because a water leak was creating damp in the house, which wasnt good for her husbands 
health and it appears to have been a source of stress for them both. It also recorded that 
Mrs Ks husbands health was already poor and that he was terminally ill. He wasnt working 
but he was in receipt of state benefits. Grove recorded that Mrs Ks mortgage had an 
outstanding balance of around £110,000, which she wanted to reduce by as much as 
possible because she wouldnt be able to manage the mortgage on her own income. Grove 
also recorded that Mrs K and her husband had no life cover, and as well as the mortgage 
debt Mrs K had two credit card debts totalling just under £8,000. On one card she was 
paying the minimum payment  around £30 a month - and on the other she was paying 
nothing. It appears the lender had granted a period of grace or a payment holiday. But I think 
its unlikely this would be tolerated by the lender in the long term, which Grove indicated 
would probably be the case suggesting that Mrs K clear these debts first before reducing her 
mortgage as they were an expensive liability.
It seems to me that Mrs Ks situation was difficult. Her husband was ill and she needed to 
make urgent repairs to her home to make thing more comfortable for him and to prevent 
things from getting any worse. It appears Mrs K was already coming under some financial 
pressure, supported by the concession granted by one of her credit card providers and when 
looking at the budget planner Grove completed. And In my view Mrs Ks financial position 
was likely to worsen if she didnt take some immediate action. As I said above, I think its 
unlikely the payment holiday granted by the credit company would last indefinitely, so this 
would add to Mrs Ks monthly expenditure when payment demands resumed. And it appears 
Mrs K would struggle to make ends meet based on her income alone.
So I think her objective was reasonable in the circumstances and in my view somewhat 
pressing. Because Mrs K didnt have any savings or other assets she couldve used to meet 
her objective, I think she had a need to access a lump sum. And in this case a need to 
access her tax-free cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave her funds 
invested until a later date  recorded as being 61. By transferring to a personal pension 
arrangement and accessing a tax-free cash lump sum, which was around £28,600, as well 
as a one-off payment treated as income of just over £6,000, it appears this wouldve allowed 
Mrs K to carry out the urgent repairs to her home and reduce her debts to ease some of the 
financial pressure now and put her in stronger position in the near future.
Although this likely meant that Mrs K wouldnt be able to take as much income from her 
pension as she wouldve been entitled to through the DB scheme at her chosen retirement 
date, I think this was necessary in the circumstances. 
I think Mrs Ks situation meant that shed have to accept a trade-off  i.e. shed have to sacrifice a likely higher and guaranteed income over the longer term to meet an urgent 
immediate need. But I think Grove was clear about this in its written advice and that Mrs K 
ought reasonably to have understood this.
Ive thought carefully about whether Mrs Ks objective could reasonably have been met by 
other ways, which looking at the advice paperwork Grove considered at the time. The first of 
these is whether Mrs K couldve stayed in her DB scheme and taken early retirement. It was 
possible for Mrs K to take immediate retirement  and Grove considered this  but the 
amount of money immediately available to Mrs K through transferring to a personal pension 
arrangement was considerably higher. Mrs K was entitled to a tax-free cash lump sum of 
around £24,000 from her DB scheme, but shed receive a lump sum of around £10,000 more 
by transferring (the tax-free cash lump sum and the one-off income payment.) I also dont 
think Mrs K needed to draw an immediate income  something Mrs K appears to have 
agreed with herself because the suitability report records her as saying: I am not interested 
in taking the money in dribs and drabs (e.g. an income payment) I need it all now. In my 
view, by raising the maximum lump sum possible and by following the advice to reduce her 
debts, this would put Mrs K in a stronger position to cope financially when, inevitably, at 
some point in the future her financial circumstances would change.
Ive already said Mrs K didnt have any savings or other assets she could realise to raise the 
required lump sum for the house repairs. And I dont think borrowing the money required 
was viable either  in my view it wasnt affordable. In any event, I dont think adding to Mrs 
Ks debt burden at this time was in her best interests. In terms of Mrs Ks existing debts - I 
dont think her credit card debt could be restructured in any way to ease her financial 
pressure  as Ive already said she was paying the minimum amount required each month 
on one card and already had a concession from the other card provider. And in terms of Mrs 
Ks mortgage, because the payments were up to date, I think there was little point in 
speaking to the lender at this time. In my view this was about Mrs K repaying as much of her 
debts as was feasible to put her in the best possible position in the future, when her 
circumstances inevitably would change, while balancing this with her need for an income 
when she decided to stop working and retire. And I think this is what Grove kept in mind 
when it provided its advice.
Im mindful that at the time of the advice, as Grove discussed with Mrs K, the government 
had announced proposed changes to pensions and the way people could access their 
benefits  what is commonly known as pension freedoms. And while it hadnt yet been 
passed as legislation, given Mrs Ks situation, which in my view was an extremely difficult 
one for the reasons Ive already outlined, I think the proposals could benefit her. This is 
because it would provide her with the flexibility in how she accessed her benefits going 
forward  for example allowing her to take further lump sums for further debt repayment 
and/or income to supplement her earned income to meet her future needs. And this wasnt 
something her DB scheme could provide.
Lastly Ive considered the investment recommendation as part of the transfer advice. I can 
see that Mrs Ks attitude to risk was assessed as very cautious and because of this Grove 
recommended Mrs Ks residual pension monies were invested in a cash-based fund. And in 
the circumstances I think this was a fair assessment and a suitable recommendation. Mrs K 
didnt have any real investment experience, she wasnt looking to invest for a long period of 
time before she likely wanted access to her fund, and her capacity for loss was low. 
Overall I think the recommendation matched Mrs Ks attitude to risk and was appropriate in 
the circumstances.
SummaryFrom a financial viability point alone, the transfer of Mrs Ks DB scheme to a personal 
pension arrangement doesnt appear suitable. But I think there were other compelling 
reasons, which in Mrs Ks particular circumstances at the time mean it was in her best 
interests to transfer out. Mrs Ks primary objective was to raise the maximum possible lump 
sum to carry out urgent essential repairs to her home and to repay as much of her debt as 
was feasible in the circumstances.
Given Mrs K didnt have any other assets available to her to meet her objective, I think she 
had a genuine need to access her tax-free cash earlier than her normal scheme retirement 
age. And based on the evidence and information at the time, I think a transfer to a personal 
arrangement was the best way to achieve this and provide Mrs K what she needed.
I accept that by transferring Mrs K was giving up a guaranteed and increasing income in 
retirement and her pension income was likely to be lower than she wouldve otherwise have 
been entitled to. But for the reasons Ive given above, I think in the circumstances this was 
necessary. I also think that the proposed, and subsequently agreed, pension freedoms 
legislation was a consideration at the time as it would likely benefit Mrs K by providing her 
with the flexibility in how and when she accessed her benefits  something I think was a 
genuine need give her circumstances and which I can see she subsequently took advantage 
of. When I asked Mrs K what she would otherwise have done had she not transferred her 
pension, she said she didnt know.
So taking everything into account, Im not currently persuaded that Groves recommendation 
was unsuitable or that it didnt act in Mrs Ks best interests.
Both Grove and Mrs K received my provisional decision. Mrs K, through her representative 
disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary Mrs Ks representative said Mrs Ks 
husband was accepted for benefits after the initial meeting with Grove and as such she 
didnt need the money. They said the funds werent used to repay her mortgage as she no 
longer had this requirement and the repairs to her property were funded by her husbands 
benefits. They concluded by saying that Mrs K didnt understand the benefits she was giving 
up by transferring and wasnt provided with any verbal advice explaining the drawbacks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before and for the same 
reasons.
Mrs Ks representative has said that she no longer needed the money from her pension 
because her husband was accepted for benefits payments after the initial meeting with 
Grove. But Im not persuaded by this. While it appears that Mrs Ks husbands monthly 
benefit payments meant that their joint household expenditure needs were broadly met  
albeit as I said in my provisional decision I think Mrs K was coming under some financial 
pressure - Mrs Ks documented objective, which has not been disputed, was to generate an 
immediate lump sum to primarily carry out repairs to her home to cater for the needs of her ill 
husband. 
And Mrs Ks own testimony is that this is what the money was used for  she also said that 
she doesnt know what she would have done if she hadnt had the pension money.   
Im also not persuaded that Mrs K didnt reasonably understand the benefits she was giving 
up by transferring. As I said in my provisional decision, Mrs K had to sacrifice a likely higher and guaranteed income over the longer term to meet an urgent immediate need. And I think 
Grove was clear about this in its written advice and that Mrs K ought reasonably to have 
understood this.
My final decision
For the reasons above, and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to not uphold Mrs Ks 
complaint or make any award in her favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman