DRN-3480226
The complaint
Mr M complains EUI Limited trading as Admiral (Admiral) poorly handled a home emergency 
claim he made under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
References I make to Admiral includes its agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been detailed by our 
Investigator, so Ill provide a summary here.
Mr M has a buildings insurance policy, which includes home emergency cover, 
underwritten by Admiral.
He found water leaking through the ceiling of a bedroom at his house. He took action 
to stop the leak and minimise the damage. He phoned Admiral to make a claim and 
was unhappy with the timescale for an emergency plumber appointment. In the end, 
the plumber arrived approximately five hours later and said the repair would take two 
days. Unhappy with this timescale, Mr M said he would instruct a local tradesman 
instead.
Later Mr M found water leaking through the ceiling again. He repeated the process of 
draining the water from the tank to stop the leak. He called Admiral back and was 
again unhappy with the timescale to get another plumber to return to the house. He 
employed a local tradesman to fix the problem and he suspected the tank itself was 
leaking so he ordered and fitted a new one several days later.
Mr M was unhappy with the service he received from Admirals plumber and the 
impact of this. He was also distressed by potential damage which he said might have 
been catastrophic. He complained to Admiral.
Admiral said the timescales had been reasonable, it didnt think there was a 
misdiagnosis of the problem and the policy didnt cover problems with water tanks. It 
declined to pay compensation.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint and Mr M asked an Ombudsman to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive looked carefully at the terms of the policy which explain 
what is and isnt covered, while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
Its important to point out, I will only consider the impact of what actually happened rather 
than what might have happened.
The timescales for appointments and repairs
The terms of the policy make no reference to expected timescales for tradespeople 
to attend an incident. So, while Mr M says the timescale was too long, this isnt as a 
consequence of an expectation set by the policy, just that he thought they were 
unreasonable.
Given that Mr M said he had stopped the leak and cleared up the worst of the water, 
Im satisfied the plumber arriving by lunchtime on the day he reported the leak is 
reasonable in the circumstances. Ive also not seen anything that persuades me the 
damage would have been any less if the plumber had arrived earlier so the impact 
would appear limited even if I agreed the plumber shouldve arrived earlier.
The alleged misdiagnosis
Admiral said the problem was caused by a faulty ball-cock valve but the plumber Mr 
M instructed suspected the water tank was in fact leaking and replaced it.
Ive not been given any evidence which conclusively shows Admiral misdiagnosed 
the cause of the leak. The information from Mr Ms plumber merely describes the 
work undertaken in replacing the water tank rather than diagnosing the specific 
problem which caused the leak. I acknowledge though the leak stopped after the tank 
was replaced so, on balance, it seems more likely the tank was the source of the 
problem.
Its important to note here, the policy excludes cover for repairs to or replacement of 
cold-water storage tanks. So even if Admiral had agreed the problem was with the 
water tank from its first visit, there was no cover under the policy requiring Admiral to 
repair or replace it.
I accept that Admiral refilling the tank resulted in a small amount of additional 
damage and can see how this would have been frustrating for Mr M. But I understand 
settlement for the damage caused across the whole incident has already been paid 
under a separate claim so it's not something I would direct Admiral to do as well.
Overall
I understand Mr M was frustrated with various aspects of the claim and thought he 
should be paid compensation. Having a water leak is an inherently stressful and 
inconvenient experience but I cant hold Admiral responsible for that. 
Mr M decided to instruct his own tradespeople and I can see how this might have 
been inconvenient when he thought he wouldnt need to because of the policy. But 
ultimately this was his choice as he was unhappy with the timescales it presented 
which Im satisfied were reasonable.
I know some of the stress Mr M said he experienced was relating to what he saw as 
Admirals incompetence and what might have happened had the leak been worse 
following its involvement. But as Ive explained above, this Service only considers 
things that have actually happened, not what might have happened so I wont 
comment on this further.So, having thought about this very carefully, I wont be directing Admiral to do any 
more or award any compensation to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman