DRN-3565342
The complaint
Mr J complained because when he switched his current account from another bank to 
Nationwide Building Society, one of his direct debits was cancelled.
What happened
Mr J switched his current account from another bank to Nationwide, using the seven day 
Current Account Switch service. His request was received by his previous bank on 1 
September, and it confirmed the switch to Mr J on 3 September. The switch to Nationwide 
was completed on 9 September.
Mr J had two direct debits set up to a phone company. One of them was due on 7 
September. Mr J had a message from the phone company to say the direct debit had been 
cancelled. It asked him to get in touch to pay the outstanding amount direct by credit card, 
which he did. Mr J found out that his previous bank had cancelled it.
Mr J complained both to his previous bank, and to his new bank Nationwide. Mr J  also 
contacted the switch guarantee service, which said that the new bank was responsible for 
resolving any issues that occur as a result of switching, as it upholds the switch guarantee. 
So Mr J complained to Nationwide. 
Nationwide replied that it was a standard switching process that a customer can go to the 
new bank or building society to have any charges reimbursed if something has gone wrong. 
Here, Mr J hadnt incurred any charges because hed had paid his bill by credit card. 
Nationwide also explained that although the process was that the new bank can refund any 
charges, this didnt mean that what had gone wrong was Nationwides fault. It had been the 
previous bank which had cancelled Mr Js direct debit. And it was a payment which had been 
due to come out of his account on 7 September, before the 9 September completion of the 
transfer to Nationwide. Nationwide also pointed out that a direct debit to the phone company 
had successfully been sent after the account had fully switched to Nationwide. So it refused 
to pay him any compensation. 
Meanwhile, the previous bank responded to Mr Js complaint by saying that it hadnt made 
an error, but it paid him some compensation for poor service.
Mr J wasnt satisfied and complained to this service about both banks. Mr Js complaint 
about his previous bank is being dealt with separately. This decision is only about his 
complaint about Nationwide.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint about Nationwide. She explained that the 
cancelled direct debit was due to have gone out before the switch to Nationwide was 
completed, so it should have been paid from Mr Js account with his previous bank. Although 
the switch scheme said any charges would be the responsibility of the new bank, Mr J had 
paid the money to the phone supplier himself, so there hadnt been any charges. And it 
wouldnt be right to hold Nationwide responsible for the inconvenience.
Mr J didnt agree. He said that when hed signed up to the seven-day switch process, with 
the guarantee, it was supposed to be easy and stress-free. Mr J said that when hed told 
Nationwide about the direct debit problem, Nationwide should have taken over and sorted it 
out, and not left it to him. And the only reason he hadnt ended up with charges was because 
hed done all the chasing around to sort out the mistake. Mr J said it was wrong that 
Nationwide had got off scot-free, and it should have to pay him some compensation for all 
these mistakes. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained above, this decision relates to Mr Js complaint about Nationwide. His 
complaint to this service about the other bank is being dealt with separately.
The current account switch service was introduced to help customers move banks more 
easily. A customer applies for a new account with their preferred organisation, with details of 
the account they want to switch from and the date for the move. The new provider switches 
all payments and the balance.  The old provider is responsible for payments to the date of 
the move, and then closes the old account.
The scheme has a Current Account Switch Guarantee. Among other things, this says that if 
anything goes wrong, the new bank or building society will refund any charges made on 
either the old or new accounts as a result of the switching failure.
Applying this to Mr Js situation, the direct debit was due on 7 September, before the switch 
date of 9 September. It was cancelled by his previous bank.
As Mr Js new provider, Nationwide would have been responsible for any charges as a result 
of this. This may seem strange when it wasnt Nationwide which had cancelled the direct 
debit, but its how the scheme works, solely in relation to charges. In Mr Js case, however, 
there werent any charges, because he made a payment to the phone company so that there 
werent any charges. 
That doesnt mean there cant be compensation from whichever bank has made a mistake. 
Wed consider that in line with our normal approach to compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. The first step of that is to determine whether or not Nationwide did anything 
which would mean it should pay Mr J compensation.
Im not persuaded that Nationwide did anything wrong here. The cancellation of the direct 
debit was done by Mr Js old bank, and it had been due for payment on 7 September, two 
days before the account was switched to Nationwide on 9 September. I recognise that Mr J 
says that when he told Nationwide about the direct debit problem, Nationwide should have 
sorted it out. But it was the previous bank which had made the mistake and had done so 
before Nationwide took over responsibility for Mr Js account on 9 September. So I consider 
it was the other banks responsibility to sort out its mistake.
I also note that another direct debit to the phone company, which was due after Mr Js 
account transferred to Nationwide, went through properly.
So I dont find that Nationwide was responsible for any of the frustration and inconvenience 
Mr J suffered as a result of the cancellation of the direct debit by Mr Js previous bank. 
Under the Current Account Switch Guarantee, Nationwide would have been liable for any charges Mr J had suffered, but there werent any. So I dont consider it would be fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide to pay Mr J compensation in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman