DRN-3041700
The complaint
Mr K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have unfairly settled his claim on his 
home insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Aviva involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Aviva.
What happened
Mr K fell asleep in his bed whilst smoking a cigarette and burned a hole in the mattress. He 
made a claim on his home contents insurance for accidental damage to the sports massage 
mattress.
Aviva accepted the claim. It was unable to repair the mattress so looked for a suitable 
replacement.
The company Mr K bought the mattress from no longer made that model of mattress or a 
similar one so Aviva offered Mr K the cost of the mattress, £5830, in vouchers, to use at its 
supplier. Mr K didnt accept Avivas offer and said this was because this limited him to the 
mattresses sold by that specific supplier and there was no equivalent mattress available. 
Aviva agreed it would offer vouchers for a company of Mr Ks choice that could supply a 
suitable mattress.
Mr K sent Aviva details of where he said he wanted to buy a replacement mattress from. 
Aviva made checks on the details he had supplied but it was unable to validate this was a 
bona-fide company as it was not registered at the address given and there was no website 
to check what it sold.  Aviva told Mr K that it would only offer vouchers to pay a company 
which can be validated by means of a website address or proof they are registered at 
companies house. 
Aviva increased its offer to £6000 in vouchers but said it would not make a cash settlement.
As Mr K wants a cash settlement he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the case and decided Aviva had been fair in its decision to settle 
the claim with vouchers from a company of Mr Ks choice as this would give him the 
opportunity to find the  best match or nearest equivalent. 
As Mr K was unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K raised his complaint as he was disappointed Aviva are only offering a settlement of 
vouchers for his damaged mattress. He wants a cash settlement. 
When a claim is accepted on an insurance policy the insurer is able to decide how it 
settles the claim.  In this case Aviva have decided to do that by replacing the damaged 
mattress. 
Unfortunately the damaged mattress is no longer in production and despite searching the 
market neither Aviva or Mr K can source a replacement on a like for like basis. The mattress 
is also not able to be repaired. 
Usually when settling a claim to replace an item an insurer will use their own supplier as it 
will have established relationships with them. In this case Aviva initially offered this to Mr K, 
but as Mr K said its supplier did not have a similar mattress available it agreed that Mr K 
could choose the supplier himself. It also increased its settlement offer to vouchers totalling 
£6000. 
Mr K sent the email address of a supplier he said he wanted to use. Aviva rejected the 
supplier, as when Aviva contacted them, they could not be validated as a bona-fide business 
or provide evidence of what they supplied. I understand why Aviva would do this as it must 
be certain that it is dealing with a legitimate business and that the business is able to supply 
the product that is being replaced  in this case a mattress. 
Aviva have offered Mr K vouchers for more than the full value paid for the mattress, at a 
supplier of his choice, but one that can be validated by it as a genuine business. 
Mr K has the option to either find a supplier himself that can offer a reasonably matched 
replacement of the mattress that meets his needs, or he can accept Avivas offer of vouchers 
for its supplier. He is not restricted to using Avivas supplier. 
So, I believe Avivas offer is fair and gives Mr K a choice and allows him to find a suitable 
replacement/nearest equivalent in the current market.
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman