DRN-4029660
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) caused unnecessary delays 
and made errors when settling their claim on their motor insurance policy.
References to Mrs C or Mr C, will include the other.
What happened
In November 2021 Mrs C was involved in a collision with a dog whilst driving her car. The 
dog was unharmed, but the car was damaged. 
The owner of the dog admitted liability to Mrs C.
Mrs C made a claim on her motor insurance policy that she held with Tesco. It accepted the 
claim, and a £300 excess was charged.
Mr C said he had months going backwards and forwards with Tesco to try and settle the 
claim and the return of the excess paid. He said in mid-2022 it was found that Tesco had not 
been chasing the third-party. 
Mr C said he got an email informing him the third-party insurers had agreed to liability and 
then another that said this was a mistake.
Mr C said it caused a lot of stress not only financially but just the whole issue hanging over 
them and it had taken up a lot of their time trying to get Tesco to progress the claim. He felt 
they were due compensation in addition to the apology received.
As Mr C was not happy with Tesco, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said Tesco made 
errors which merit more than just an apology. They said Tesco should have done more to 
establish the third-partys position in relation to insurance. And there was a time of no 
movement between March 2022 and June 2022. They said it would be fair for Tesco to 
compensate Mr and Mrs C with £150.
As Tesco are unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I saw that Mrs C notified Tesco of her claim in November 2021.
Mr C explained the situation to Tesco and said the dog owner had admitted liability for the 
incident and offered to cover Mrs Cs policy excess directly. Tesco advised against this.
I saw that Tesco explained to Mr C that a recovery of claim costs may be difficult if it was 
unable to prove negligence on the part of the dog owner. It also explained that their policy no 
claims discount would be affected if it had to settle as a fault claim and there would be no 
recovery of the £300 excess paid.
I saw evidence of Tesco chasing the claim with the third-party in February 2022. It said the 
third-party insurer was not responding and it was passed on to a different insurer who dealt 
with the pet plan policy. 
On review of the evidence provided, it shows Tesco chasing the third-party insurers in 
February 2022 and March 2022. The next date I saw evidence of Tesco chasing them was in 
June 2022 and July 2022. 
I saw that Tesco accepted it provided Mr C with incorrect information in June 2022 when it 
advised by letter that the third-party had agreed fault. And when it realised its error later the 
same day, it informed him of its error.  
I saw on 22 July 2022 Tesco apologised for the delays caused and for providing different 
information regarding possibility of recovery. It said it had not acted fairly. However it did not 
think any compensation was due.
Tesco said delays were caused due to the complex nature of the claim and the possible 
insurance cover of the dog. It said whilst recovery took some time, it said it did not cause any 
unnecessary delays and it had continued to chase the other insurer.
Although I accept that the third-party insurers took time to look into this claim, I  think Tesco 
should have been more proactive in moving this case forward between March 2022 and 
June 2022. 
In any claim there will be an element of stress. But I think the lack of activity by Tesco during 
these months caused Mr and Mrs C more than the levels of frustration and annoyance they 
might reasonably expect. And Mr and Mrs C had to spend time contacting Tesco to try to 
progress the resolution of this claim. 
I do not think an apology is enough in this case. 
Therefore, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Tesco to pay £150 compensation for the 
stress caused to them over a longer period of time than was necessary to progress their 
claim. And for the time taken by Mr and Mrs C to try to progress the claim. 
  
It is noted the claim was finally closed in October 2022 after the third-party insurer accepted 
liability. And Tesco returned to Mrs C and Mr C their excess of £300 and closed the claim as 
non fault, allowing the no claim discount.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay Mrs C and Mr C £150 for the stress caused due 
to the unnecessary delays and the time they spent trying to progress their claim.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman