DRN-3983374
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) settled a third partys claim 
against her motor insurance policy unfairly. 
What happened
In September 2021, Mrs S was involved in a minor car accident as she collided with a third 
partys parked car while reversing from a parking space. Calpe accepted liability for the claim 
and settled the third partys costs which totalled £3,212.81. They also asked Mrs S to pay 
the £3,000 policy excess.
Mrs S didnt think this was fair and said the damage the third party claimed for was 
exaggerated and potentially fraudulent. She acknowledged denting the third partys front 
bumper during the incident. However, she stressed the fact she was later told the bumper 
had restored itself due to the heat. She also questioned the amount Calpe had agreed to pay 
for a hire car and said CCTV footage from the incident should have been requested. She 
also felt Calpe had simply accepted the third partys costs due to the large policy excess.
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He 
concluded Calpe had acted fairly by settling the claim for the above amount, as Mrs S had 
accepted responsibility for the incident. And Calpe had relied on evidence the third party 
provided in relation to the cost of the repairs and necessary hire car.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators opinion and said she couldnt accept the minor 
collision resulted in such a large amount of costs. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for complaints of this nature is the agreement between Mrs S and Calpe - 
the policy terms and conditions. Under the terms of the policy, Calpe can independently 
decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. This might mean Calpe makes a decision that 
Mrs S disagrees with, as has happened here. I dont find this unusual or surprising as most 
motor insurance policies allow insurers to consider claims in this way. That said, we do 
expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the available evidence, 
before deciding to settle it.
In relation to the policy excess, the terms explain that Mrs S is required to pay the first 
£3,000 of any claim. And this applies to all claims made against the policy including those 
raised by third parties.
There appears to be no dispute Calpe acted reasonably by accepting liability for the claim as 
Mrs S accepted responsibility in her written statement. But for the sake of completeness, I 
also think this was a reasonable decision based on the circumstances. Ive therefore focused 
the rest of this decision on Mrs Ss concern that the settlement amount was excessive and 
unfair.
As Mrs S is aware, before the claim was settled, the third partys insurer provided an 
engineers report (including photographs) which detailed the damage that was caused in the 
incident. They also provided an invoice for the cost of the completed repairs totalling 
£2,212.81. Having carefully reviewed the engineers report, Im satisfied all the damage 
appears to be consistent with the circumstances of the incident. The photographs suggest 
the dent to the front bumper may have popped out, but I can also see the bumper remained 
in a damaged condition and the engineer concluded it needed to be replaced. So, I dont 
think Calpe acted unreasonably by relying on the expertise of the third partys engineer and 
settling the full cost of the repairs.
Ive considered Mrs Ss comment that the outcome may have been different if Calpe had 
requested CCTV footage, but I respectfully disagree. As mentioned above, Calpe accepted 
liability based on Mrs Ss statement, so CCTV footage wasnt required to help them decide 
this. I also think Calpe concluded reasonably that the expert engineers report would be the 
most persuasive evidence in terms of the necessary repairs. As even if there was CCTV 
footage available, its unlikely this would have shown the full extent of the damage or what 
would be required to put things right. 
Mrs S has also said Calpe should have refused to pay for the third partys hire car. However, 
as the third party was able to show they used a hire car while their vehicle was repaired, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Calpe to settle this cost. I also note that while Calpe ultimately 
paid £1,000 for this expense, the third party initially requested a larger amount, and Calpe 
successfully negotiated a reduction. So, Im satisfied Calpe didnt simply accept the third 
partys costs without question. Instead, they did what I would reasonably expect by 
considering the third partys damage report and negotiating where appropriate, to try and 
agree the lowest fair settlement. As per the policy terms, Calpe were also entitled to ask   
Mrs S to pay the £3,000 policy excess. So, Im satisfied they responded to the claim fairly 
and I dont direct them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman