DRN-3153474
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Allay Claims Ltd (Allay) have sent them an invoice 
relating to a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim they say they pursued directly with the 
lender.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B contacted Allay in 2018 to have them conduct a free PPI check.  Several 
months later, they signed a letter of authority and terms of engagement, allowing Allay to 
pursue a claim against a lender Ill call L.  Allay submitted a claim to L on their behalf.
In early 2019, L sent a refund offer to Mr and Mrs B, which they copied to Allay.  Mr and   
Mrs B accepted the offer.  Allay sent Mr and Mrs B an invoice for their services, which Mr 
and Mrs B initially disputed, but which they settled in April 2019.
At the end of 2019, L sent Mr and Mrs B and Allay details of a further offer.  Shortly 
afterwards, Allay sent Mr and Mrs B an invoice for their fee relating to that offer.
Mr and Mrs B refused to pay Allays fee as they said that theyd dealt directly with L and 
Allay hadnt done anything to earn their fee.  They raised a complaint, which Allay 
considered, but didnt uphold.  They said Mr and Mrs B had signed their letter of authority 
and completed questionnaires, which had enabled Allay to submit the claim to L.  And they 
said theyd updated Mr and Mrs B regularly.  So they were satisfied theyd been authorised 
to pursue the claim and had done so.
After theyd responded to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, Allay continued to pursue their fee.  
And, after several months, they instructed debt collectors.  At around this time, Mr and Mrs B 
brought their complaint to us.  As well as complaining about being charged by Allay, they 
complained that, on both occasions, Allay had based their fee on the value of Ls offers 
before tax was withheld.
Our investigator considered their complaint and concluded Allay didnt need to do anything 
differently to resolve it.  He explained he was satisfied that Mr and Mrs B had signed up to 
Allays services.  And the documentation theyd received made it clear how Allay would 
progress the claims and calculate their fees.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr and Mrs B arent happy.  But they signed an agreement with Allay in 
October 2018, under which Allay would receive a fee for assisting them in their claim.  I can 
only say Allay should waive that fee if I think theyve not complied with their obligations 
under the agreement, so have treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly.
Ive looked at Allays terms of engagement.  They set out that Allay will assess a claimants 
case and, if they think theres a valid claim, represent the claimant in obtaining redress.  And 
the terms confirm that Allay act on a no win, no fee basis and will receive 24% of any sum 
recovered from a lender.
Ive seen that Allay submitted a claim to L on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf about six weeks after 
the terms were signed.  And they followed that up with a questionnaire so they could give L 
more information about the claim.  Im satisfied that was in line with Allays obligations under 
their agreement with Mr and Mrs B.
Two of the terms of engagement under the heading Allay Service Charge are pertinent 
here.  The first reads:
2. We are entitled to receive 24% (inclusive of VAT where applicable) of redress 
recovered relating to all accounts with your lenders, no matter if received after the 
initial settlement.
The second says:
4. We will continue to represent your interests with the lender in order to ensure the 
correct amount of redress is paid.  If any further payments are received from the 
lender, they will be subject to the same terms and conditions regarding fees 
payable by you, to us.
I think these make it clear that Allay will charge a fee in respect of all accounts with a lender, 
and all payments received.
I understand Mr and Mrs B provided some information directly to L  and they feel it was that 
information, rather than anything Allay provided, which resulted in the second offer.  But 
Allays terms are clear that there might be more than one payment to a claimant  and that 
theyre entitled to a fee each time.  
So, while I note what Mr and Mrs B have said, I cant say that each payment resulted from 
two completely separate applications.  Im satisfied that Allay submitted a claim to L in 
respect of any products Mr and Mrs B had with them.  And I can see that L corresponded 
with Allay on both claims.  
When this was raised directly with Allay, they invited Mr and Mrs B to get confirmation from L 
that it was Mr and Mrs Bs actions, not Allays, which led to the second successful claim.  
Nothing Ive seen shows any confirmation of this was provided to Allay, or to us.  So, on 
balance, I cant say Allay had no involvement in the success of the second claim.  And its 
not fair for me to say they should waive their fee.
Mr and Mrs B contacted L advising them to stop dealing with Allay.  I dont know exactly 
when they did this.  But I have seen L responded in August 2020  more than six months 
after Allay had sent their second invoice.  So I think its likely Mr and Mrs B wrote to L after 
theyd had the invoice.
On this subject, Allays terms and conditions say:
if you attempt to cancel after an offer has been made, then our full fee is still due and 
payable.
So Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B contacting L shouldnt stop Allay being paid their fee.Finally, Ive considered Mr and Mrs Bs complaint that it was unfair for Allay to calculate their 
fee as a percentage of Ls offer, before L deducted a sum for tax.  I can see why they might 
feel this way.  But, again, this is dealt with in Allays terms of engagement, which say:
This fee [the 24% of the redress] is calculated before any applicable tax payment/deduction 
for which you are liable.
So I cant say Allay have done anything wrong here either.  And that means they dont need 
to do anything more to resolve Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Allay 
Claims Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman