DRN-3284865
The complaint
Mr B complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that he was given 
unsuitable investment advice by Nationwide Building Society, referred to as Nationwide. 
In summary, the CMC has made the following complaint points:
Mr Bs attitude to risk (ATR) wasnt fully explored, a detailed discussion wasnt 
carried out and he didnt want a high-risk investment. 
Mr Bs circumstances werent properly assessed to see if his agreed ATR was 
suitable in the advisers professional opinion. 
Mr B didnt make an informed decision to invest £8,500 into the Target Return Fund. 
The fund was sold on an advised basis.   
What happened
In August 2005, Mr B and his wife were advised to make a series of investments including a 
Guaranteed Equity Bond (GEB). But on that occasion, only Mr B was advised to invest 
£7,000 in an ISA, invested in the UK Growth Fund, which is the subject of this complaint.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Because this is a complaint by Mr B, hes only considered investments in Mr Bs 
name. 
Mr Bs (and his wifes) concerns about the GEB have already been considered in a 
separate complaint. An ombudsman decided that there werent any reasons to 
suggest that Mr Bs ATR wasnt accurate nor discussed. 
In this instance, he cant say the advice to invest in the ISA was unsuitable for Mr B. 
His reasons in terms of the ATR are the same as the ombudsman who considered 
the GEB complaint  the advice to invest in the ISA and discussion about ATR took 
place on the same occasion  and it was agreed that Mr Bs ATR was high.   
Mr B wanted to invest his money for growth  as he had enough money for his 
everyday expenses  and he was made aware that his returns were dependent on 
the growth of his investment. 
Mr B confirmed that hed read and understood the Key Features Document (KFD) 
and Illustration. 
Given the reasons above, he cant say that Mr B didnt agree to his ATR or that the 
risks werent explained. 
Hes satisfied that Mr B had capacity to invest in the medium to long term and had 
access to a reasonable amount of funds that hed set aside for planned expenditure. 
Therefore, he had capacity to invest a portion of his money to meet his objective. 
Based on the fact find hes satisfied that Mr B had previous investment experience  
around buying and selling shares  and that he made an informed decision to invest 
on this occasion.  
Overall, the ISA was what Mr B wanted and helped diversify his portfolio. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, it said:
Mr B never held the shares that the investigator refers to in his decision. 
The £2,000 single company shares referred to would be classed as high risk. Yet a 
later (contradictory) statement by the adviser states: you had never been in a 
position to be high risk before.and you now feel the time is right to invest some 
money into something other than deposit accounts.  
The company however ceased trading in 2002, so even if Mr B invested in it  which 
it disagrees with  it couldnt have been a recent investment. According to external 
sources the company had been in a decade long fight for survival. 
Theres no documentary evidence of Mr B ever having held shares or equity-based 
investments, prior to the sale of the ISA. So, an assessment of Mr Bs ATR wasnt 
accurately completed. 
The investigator provided the CMC with a copy of the final decision in the GEB complaint 
Mr B had been advised to take out the ISA on the same occasion. He was satisfied that the 
ombudsman had already addressed the concerns about ATR. 
The CMC still disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In short, it said:
although the Ombudsman did address the (name anonymised) shares in their last 
decision and stated that she (sic) believed our client had them as he signed the point of sale 
documents after the meeting, we had not raised the point about the timing of just how long 
ago our client likely bought them even if he did have them in the first place. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation was unsuitable, or that Mr Bs ATR wasnt accurate nor 
discussed. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Mr B has about this matter. The CMC has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr B wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points. My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and Nationwide, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Im aware that there was a separate complaint brought by Mr B and his wife about the GEB - 
that was sold at the same time as the ISA, which was similar in nature to this complaint but 
wasnt upheld. In this case, Im only considering the sale of the ISA which is in Mr Bs name 
only. 
That said, I should also make clear that whilst an ombudsman isnt bound by the decision of 
another ombudsman, in this instance I agree with the decision of the ombudsman regarding 
his findings about ATR. Im mindful that the advice Mr G (and his wife) received about the 
GEB, was at the same time Mr G was advised to invest in the ISA and involved the same 
assessment/documentation.    
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the advice to invest in the ISA was 
broadly suitable. I note that Mr B was in his late 50s, married and working. He and his wife 
had savings of around £118,801 mainly from inheritance. I note according to the investigator 
the ISA represented around 5% of his savings. 
Im satisfied that Mr Bs ATR was discussed and that he was willing to take a high risk with a 
portion of his money to meet his objective for growth on this occasion. 
I understand why the CMC might think that the ATR mightve been wrongly identified. Im 
aware it was noted by the ombudsman in the other complaint that Mr B (and his wife) were 
heavily invested in cash at the time and high risk was the highest risk category identified by 
the adviser. 
However, Im also aware that additional notes in the fact find refer to the adviser having 
discussed the different risk categories in detail and state that Mr B accepts there is a 
substantial possibility that they could suffer a higher capital loss or shortfall in order to 
receive a potentially higher rate of return on savings than if they invested in medium risk 
investments. In the circumstances I dont think it was for the adviser to force Mr B to go with 
a lower risk ATR if he didnt want to.   
Despite what the CMC says, Im aware that the notes also suggest that Mr B had invested in 
shares over the years and invested in a particular company, where the value had reduced to 
nil. The notes also suggest that Mr B had bought and sold shares over the years as he 
wanted to take a risk and speculate a little.  
On balance, the evidence suggests that Mr B knew what he wanted and made an informed 
decision. If the information recorded on the fact find was incorrect  and Mr B didnt hold any 
shares and/or didnt have previous investment experience  he ought reasonably to have 
raised it with the adviser at the time, and not signed the relevant forms confirming the 
information was correct. 
Im mindful that an adviser can only advise based on the information provided, so if Mr B had 
no knowledge of the company referenced in the fact find, and the only shares he had were 
from an employee share scheme and demutualisation of a building society, he ought 
reasonably to have made this clear at the time.  Im also aware that even if, for whatever reason, Mr B wasnt comfortable raising an issue at 
the time  although Ive seen no evidence that he was  he still had the option to change his 
mind during the cooling off period. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, I think its more 
likely (than not) that Mr B had previously invested in shares. Whether or not he did so at or 
around the time of the sale of the ISA or much earlier, I think he had previous experience of 
equities and understood the risks of such investment. 
I also note that theres a short handwritten appendix  also referred to by the other 
ombudsman  that states:
You have stated that your attitude to risk for your investment portfolio is high however your
existing investment portfolio indicates a low attitude to risk portfolio based upon Nationwide
Portfolio guidelines.
We have discussed this and you have said that you have never been in a position to be high
risk before. You have sufficient money in your emergency fund and you now feel that the
time is right to invest some money into something other than deposit based investments and
this now reflects your high attitude to risk.
You wish to invest £25,000 into equity based investment. You wish to invest 12,500 into a
low risk mixed asset fund. You wish to invest £7,000 into a high risk fund and £5,500 into a
medium risk fund. Both of these funds you want to be actively managed.
I note the accuracy of this note is disputed by the CMC, however it does evidence that ATR 
was considered in some detail. Im also aware that the note was signed by Mr B (and his 
wife), along with the fact find. Because of this and the reasons that Ive set out above, I think 
its unlikely that the CMC would get Mr B to sign this form if the contents hadnt been 
discussed and agreed by him. Im mindful that Nationwide maintains that it carried out a 
detailed fact find assessment and a suitability letter was issued alongside the post-sale 
documents that showed the appropriate risk warning. 
The above notwithstanding, I note that after investing Mr B was left with access to a 
reasonable amount of funds set aside for any planned expenditure or emergencies, so I 
think he was in a reasonable position to invest a portion of his money in the ISA. Im mindful 
that hed already spent money on a new bathroom, a new car, and a holiday. 
In summary, Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence that the ISA was unsuitable for Mr B 
when it was recommended in 2005. Or that his ATR wasnt discussed in detail or that the 
adviser got Mr Bs ATR wrong. 
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require Nationwide to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman