DRN-4364363
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from U K Insurance Limited, trading as 
Darwin (UKI) after his insurance policy renewed. 
What happened
Mr M had car insurance with UKI and he paid for the premium with his credit card. 
Mr M says the policy lapsed at renewal and at that stage he transferred the cars ownership 
to his son who obtained his own insurance policy for the car. 
Mr M received an email on 19 March 2023 which said UKI had been unable to take payment 
for the policy, and if he wanted to continue with it he needed to make payment for £267.92 in 
seven days. Mr M says since he no longer needed the policy he allowed it to lapse knowing 
the payment would fail since his credit card had been cancelled. 
Mr M received another email on 25 March 2023 which he says he ignored. In April Mr M 
received an email saying he owed £34.51. And another one on 6 April 2023 saying he owed 
£69.02. So Mr M called UKI. 
UKI told Mr M it had issued a refund to Mr M in error and asked him to pay it back. Mr M 
tried to explain that he no longer had the credit card as it had been cancelled. Mr M 
contacted the bank who explained that no refund had been processed. But if it had been it 
would be refunded to the old credit card then it would take up to eight weeks and it would be 
sent back to the originator. 
Mr M received correspondence demanding a refund of £69.02. Mr M says hes willing to pay 
the original £34.51 he owes but thinks £69.02 is unfair. He says hes been threatened with 
penalty fees and having the case referred to a debt collection agency. Mr M says hes spent 
several hours on hold over a number of days calling his bank, the insurer, and his credit card 
provider. 
Mr M wants UKI to put the matter right and compensate him for the hours hes had to spend 
on trying to sort it out. He says £25/hour for six hours is fair. Because Mr M wasnt happy he 
complaint. 
UKI said it sent Mr M a renewal notification in advance of the renewal date. It said it didnt 
hear from Mr M to say he no longer owned the vehicle or that he no longer needed 
insurance. The policy was cancelled on 3 April 2023. Due to an administrative error UKI 
issued a refund to Mr M so asked for it back. It said Mr M hasnt provided any evidence that 
the payment couldnt be located in the account where it was issued. UKI said it offered to 
backdate the original outstanding amount if Mr M could show when he transferred the car to 
his son. It said it had been fair in the options provided to Mr M to resolve the matter. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the response he received from UKI so referred his complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked into things for him. She said she could see the 
matter had caused Mr M a significant amount of inconvenience  most of which has been 
caused by UKIs error in issuing the refund. She said UKI should waive the £34.51 that was 
accidentally refunded to him and pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused. Mr M was 
satisfied with the outcome. 
UKI didnt agree. It said mistakes can occur and arent intentional. Mr M was refunded in 
error which then halved the amount he owed. UKI said asking Mr M to check with his bank 
and ask whether it had received the refund and doing so isnt worth the level of 
compensation recommended by the investigator. It didnt agree the matter caused Mr M any 
distress and inconvenience. Because UKI didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am going to uphold Mr Ms complaint. And Im going to do so for largely the 
same reasons as the investigator. 
Mr M didnt notify UKI that he didnt want his policy to renew, and he should have done. 
Since he didnt the policy was renewed and when UKI didnt receive payment for the policy, 
it was cancelled. 
Mr M was sent letters notifying him the policy would be cancelled in seven days if payment 
wasnt received. When the policy was cancelled following non-payment UKI wrote to Mr M 
setting out what he owed. It did this on 3 April 2023 and 6 April 2023. 
Mr M then received a letter dated 11 April 2023 demanding payment of £69.02. In that letter 
the breakdown of the amount owed showed the following;
Cost of insurance cover: £8.55
All applicable optional extras: £0.96
Admin fee for cancellation: £25.00
Your outstanding balance: £69.02
I cant see that Mr M was provided with an explanation as to why the amount had increased 
from £34.51 to £69.02 until he contacted UKI. And I dont think this is fair. Especially given 
he was being threatened with the matter being passed to a debt collection agency. 
Mr M contacted UKI and offered to pay £34.51 he owed. He told UKI the bank had confirmed 
it didnt receive a refund because the credit card had been cancelled. The bank told Mr M 
that any attempt to make a refund would lead to the payment being returned to the 
originator. I think Mr Ms offer to pay the amount he owed under the terms of the policy is 
fair. And he took steps to ascertain where UKI had mistakenly paid £34.51. I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I have seen written evidence from the receiving bank that a transaction from UKI for the 
amount of £34.51 couldnt be located. And Im satisfied it has carried out appropriate checks. 
Taking a pragmatic approach and as a gesture of goodwill, the bank agreed to refund Mr M 
£34.51 of the missing money. Which Mr M then paid to UKI. Mr M also paid the £34.51 that 
he owed. So UKI is no longer owed any outstanding monies. 
Given what Mr M told UKI I would have expected it to accept Mr Ms offer to pay what he 
owed under the terms of the policy. I would have expected it would write off the remaining 
£34.51 on the basis the refund was issued by its own error, and not anything Mr M did or didnt do. The receiving bank confirmed there was no evidence that payment had been 
received. And if it had it would have been returned to the originator  owing to Mr Ms card 
being cancelled at the time. But UKI didnt do this. 
UKI referred the whole debt, including the additional £34.51 Mr M was not liable for under 
the terms of the policy, to a debt collection agency. It also asked Mr M to contact the 
receiving bank and the new card provider to locate the funds. Which he did. And Im satisfied 
this took a great deal of time and effort on his part. And given the refund wasnt due to Mr M, 
and he hadnt benefitted from it in any way, I think this would have caused him a level of 
inconvenience. I also think receiving correspondence from a debt collection agency would 
have caused Mr M a degree of trouble and upset given the potential consequences to his 
credit rating. 
Taking everything into account its clear to me an award is due to Mr M for the distress and 
inconvenience this whole episode caused. I can see Mr M has been frustrated having to 
speak to various banks and the insurer to try and resolve the matter. And the fact most of 
this was caused by UKIs error in refunding Mr Ms previous credit card, and then its 
continued insistence that Mr M should try to resolve its error, rather than taking a pragmatic 
view of the matter. Our investigator recommended UKI pay Mr M £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I think this is a fair award to reflect the issues Ive highlighted. 
Putting things right
UKI should pay Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im upholding this complaint and direct U K Insurance 
Limited, trading as Darwin to do what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman