DRN-3368486
The complaint
In summary, Mr X has complained about the delay in ReAssure Limited setting up the 
annuity payments from his pension policy.  
What happened
Mr X contacted ReAssure in March 2021 and asked to take an annuity from his pension 
policy. On 26 March 2021, it sent him a retirement pack to enable him to take retirement 
benefits.
In April 2021 Mr X sent ReAssure the documentation it had asked him to provide to enable 
him to take benefits from his pension policy. This was received by ReAssure on 13 April 
2021.
Mr X didnt receive updates about how his benefit request was progressing, so he 
complained to ReAssure.
It said in its response to him of 17 May 2021, that the service he had received from it fell 
short of the standard it strove to provide. It was investigating if he had suffered financially 
because of the delays. It arranged for £200 to be paid to him in respect of the inconvenience 
he had been caused. 
Mr X had cause to complain again a few weeks later as his annuity still hadnt been set up. 
On 10 June 2021 ReAssure apologised for the prolonged delay and said it was its mistake 
that shouldnt have happened. 
On 23 June 2021, Mr X was told his annuity had been set up. ReAssure told our investigator 
that the first payment was made on 1 July 2021 and 3 payments had been made to Mr X to 
compensate him for the payments that had been paid late. 
Mr Xs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. He explained why he thought 
ReAssure should pay Mr X a further £100 for the stress and worry he had been caused as a 
result of the delays in his annuity being paid. Although ReAssure had paid the missed 
annuity payments caused by its delay, he said that interest should also be paid on the 
delayed annuity payments.
In response, ReAssure said that its offer was fair and it wasnt looking to increase it. It also 
said that £25 of the £200 it had offered was in respect of interest due on the late annuity 
payment.
The investigator replied that he believed the additional £100 was due as a result of Mr X 
having to chase up the annuity payments even after ReAssure had provided its responses to 
Mr Xs concerns. So, he thought the additional £100 was fair and reasonable to for the 
additional delays. 
ReAssure didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that ReAssure caused delays in the setting up of Mr Xs annuity. I simply 
have to decide whether the compensation proposed by our investigator is appropriate. 
Having reviewed everything, Ive been provided with; Ive decided to uphold Mr Xs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that Mr X initiated the process of taking benefits from his pension with ReAssure 
in March 2021. The process of setting up an annuity isnt instantaneous. But Mr X received 
his first annuity payment in July 2021. That in my opinion is a significant delay for someone 
such as Mr X to be delayed receiving their retirement benefits. 
Im pleased to see that ReAssure accepts that the service Mr X received from it fell short of 
the standard it strove to provide. Its letter to Mr X of 17 May 2021 offered £200 
compensation for the inconvenience he had been caused. Its also paid Mr X the backdated 
annuity payments. And Ive noted that its letter makes no mention of the £25 interest that 
ReAssure referred to in its response to the investigators view. 
Ive also noted that Mr X had to raise his concerns about the continuing delays after 
ReAssure issued its response to his complaint. And in its letter to him of 10 June 2021, it 
apologised for the prolonged delay and accepted that this was a result of its mistake which 
shouldnt have happened. So, Im a little surprised that it doesnt agree that further 
compensation is appropriate. 
I think it was appropriate for our investigator to recommend additional compensation for the 
continued delays. And I think its also right that ReAssure should pay interest on the delayed 
annuity payments. I dont accept its argument that the original offer of £200 included an 
element of interest. The offer makes no mention of that. And taking into account the overall 
delays in the setting up of the annuity and the impact on Mr X of these, I consider a figure of 
£300 to be an appropriate payment to be made to Mr X, to reflect the inconvenience he has 
been caused in having his annuit payments delayed. And I consider that interest should be 
paid on the delayed annuity payments in addition to that.
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited should pay Mr X a total of £300 (inclusive of any payments it has 
already made to Mr X), in respect of the inconvenience he has been caused by the 
delays in setting up his annuity.
Pay interest on the delayed annuity payments at the rate of 8% simple a year from 
the dates the payments should have been paid to the date of payment.
If ReAssure Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr X how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr X a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Xs complaint about ReAssure 
Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022. 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman