DRN-1440032
The complaint
Miss A says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy was added to 
Miss A's account at the same time she took out the credit card. This was in a meeting. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss A's complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As case.
Barclays had a duty to make it clear to Miss A that the PPI was optional. Miss A says that 
this didn't happen and that it was added without her knowledge. So I have looked into this.
I have looked at the documentation from the time of sale to give me a better idea as to what 
more likely than not happened at the time of sale. Ive been able to see the credit card 
application and I don't think it is clear from this form that Barclays did give Miss A the choice 
to have PPI.
When I look through the application form I can see a separate section for PPI where a 
question is asked whether the applicant would like the insurance  the applicant is given a 
yes or no option to select. But the form that Miss A completed has not aligned well and the 
box that would have needed to have been crossed or ticked to indicate consent has not lined 
up next to the question about PPI. And the automated cross has also not aligned next to the 
question or in the box either. 
Barclays says that the automated 'X' mark has been mis-aligned on the form but as Miss A 
has signed the form its clear she wanted PPI. But I disagree with Barclays on this point. 
Barclays says that its advisers would have followed the industry code at the time when 
selling PPI. But it hasnt been able to give me any evidence to demonstrate that it gave Miss 
A the choice to have PPI with her card. So I dont know what Barclays said to Miss A about 
the policy as all I have is an application form. And it is not clear whether PPI was selected or 
not here.
Ive taken account of all Barclays comments but on the basis of the evidence provided, Im 
not satisfied that it made it clear to her that she had a choice about buying the policy. 
Barclays should have made it clear that the PPI was optional at the time it sold it and I 
haven't seen enough evidence that it did this. So it needs to put things right.Putting things right
Barclays should put Miss A in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A. Barclays should find out how much Miss A would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Miss A owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss A would 
have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
C. If  when Barclays works out what Miss A would have owed each month without PPI 
 Miss A paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Miss A paid. And it should carry on paying interest until 
the point when Miss A wouldve owed Barclays something on her credit card. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. Barclays should tell Miss A what its done to work out A, B and C.
If a commission refund has been paid, this amount can be deducted from the above. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss A's complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and direct it to put things right as 
I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman