DRN-3068935
The complaint
Mr M complains that N26 Bank GmbH recorded information about him with fraud prevention 
agencies. He feels this is unfair and would like this information removed.
What happened
Mr M had an account with N26. Between 22 July 2019 and 6 August 2019 his current 
account received several credits totalling just under £3,000. These payments were then 
rapidly transferred out of the account, to other accounts including accounts in Mr Ms name.
Several days later N26 received notification from the sending banks that the payments were 
the result of fraud. in each report the senders were tricked into believing they were buying 
flight tickets. They confirmed theyd received a phone call asking them to transfer money for 
the tickets after theyd clicked an email link. Once the payments had been sent to Mr Ms 
account they were then blocked by the caller. And when theyd contacted the flight 
companies, they discovered no flights had been booked for them.
After reviewing what happened N26 took the decision to close Mr Ms accounts and retain 
the money in it. They also recorded a marker with the national fraud database, CIFAS.
Mr M says he wasnt aware the money paid into his account was fraudulent. Hes said he 
was contacted by a friend of a friend, Mr S, whod asked him if he was interested in doing 
some extra work. Mr M said at the time he was struggling financially and needed the extra 
cash to take care of his family, so he agreed. He says Mr S explained he was running a 
travel company and all he had to do was receive payments into his personal account for 
handling fees for flight tickets, then forward the remainder onto Mr S via a money transfer 
service. Mr M said he took a small percentage of the funds as payment for handling the 
transactions.
Mr M says he didnt draw up a contract with Mr S, it was in essence a gentlemans 
agreement and he dealt with Mr S either via a well- known social messaging site or on the 
phone. Hes since changed mobile phones so no longer has access to many of the 
messages between him and Mr S. 
Mr M has explained he believed Mr Ss travel business was legitimate and had raised the 
issue of it not being ABTA certified with Mr S, but he said it wasnt essential. And that hed 
seen Mr Ss company website, so believed everything was above board. Mr M says when 
N26 blocked his account he contacted Mr S whod assured him the flight tickets had been 
sent by his company. But looking back on things he now thinks he was nave and only found 
about the marker when an account he had with another bank was closed.
Mr M complained to N26. It said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said the terms of Mr Ms 
account allowed them to restrict and then close his account. They also said that in line with 
Banking regulations they have an obligation to report incidents like this to CIFAS and felt the 
information they recorded was accurate.
Unhappy that the CIFAS marker would remain Mr M referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ms complaint but didnt think N26 had done anything 
wrong. The investigator explained that to record a marker with CIFAS N26 would have to 
have reasonable rounds to believe Mr M was involved in fraud or financial crime. She said 
that the bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. And shed considered Mr Ms 
explanation of what hed said had happened, but she didnt think his explanation that hed 
unwittingly received the fraudulent funds was plausible. So, she said N26 had acted fairly 
when it recorded the CIFAS marker.
In response, Mr M said N26 hadnt contacted him at the time to discuss the activity on his 
account and there wasnt any evidence to show hes knowingly received fraudulent funds. 
And he provided copies of screen shots of messages between him and Mr S which he says 
supports his explanation about what he was doing. So, he said N26 hadnt treated him fairly 
and should remove the marker. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIFAS marker
Our investigator outlined in detail the level of evidence required for N26 to record a CIFAS 
marker against Mr M  so I wont repeat it in detail here. But briefly N26 need to be able to 
demonstrate that there are reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted. And that Mr M was complicit in this fraud or financial crime.
What this means in practice is that N26 must first be able to show that fraudulent funds have 
entered Mr Ms account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, 
the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
So, I need to decide whether N26 had sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof and 
load a marker against Mr M. Having looked at all the evidence Im satisfied they have, and I 
say this because:
Ive seen evidence from N26 that several other banks notified them that money paid 
into Mr Ms account between 22 July 2019 and 6 August 2019, was fraudulent. And 
his account was used to pass it on.
Mr M has told us he agreed to receive payments on behalf of Mr S into his N26 
account, which he believed related to travel tickets. But hes provided quite patchy 
evidence to support this explanation  namely a handful of screenshots of messages 
that he says are between him and Mr S. But hes not provided a contract of 
employment, what percentage hed take from each transaction (or how this was 
calculated), or any communication between his friend which led to the arrangement 
with Mr S. I find its absence telling. 
Mr M also hasnt provided a plausible explanation for why he sent the money onto 
Mr M used a money exchange transfer service instead of sending the money directly 
to Mr Ss company or an account operated by him. He hasnt provided much in the 
way of an explanation why the funds needed to be moved in this way or for why Mr S 
needed to use his account at all in the first place. Id expect Mr M to be suspicious 
considering hed not been provided with a legitimate or plausible explanation for why Mr Ss business needed to use his personal N26 account. So, I cant rule out the 
possibility that Mr M and Mr S were looking to conceal the nature of the transactions 
from any account monitoring systems. 
Ive looked at the screen shots Mr M has provided. They simply show Mr M and Mr S 
discussed what payments Mr M was due to receive  they dont show Mr M wasnt an 
unwitting beneficiary. Rather I think it most likely that Mr M had reason to believe that 
the money paid into his account wasnt legitimate from the outset. I say this because 
Mr M hasnt provided any evidence to show what was being provided for the money 
paid into his account such as details of holiday packages or flight tickets.
Mr M opened his N26 account on 12 July 2019. As far as I can see the account 
wasnt used very much at all prior to the fraudulent funds being paid into the account 
and being moved. I note too that Mr M didnt respond to N26s letter, or question why 
his account was being closed, which would make sense if he intended to use the 
accounts for genuine purposes. And he only did so when he discovered the CIFAS 
marker.  
When N26 closed Mr Ms account it had a balance of just over £800  I find it odd, 
given what Mr M has said about his financial difficulties at the time, that he didnt 
contact N26 to gain access to the money. Especially if as he says he genuinely 
believed everything was above board and he wasnt doing anything untoward. This 
suggests to me that Mr M more likely than not did in fact open the account in order to 
act as a money mule.
Mr M has said that N26 should have spoken to him at the time about how he was 
operating his account. I agree it wouldve been helpful if N26 had contacted Mr M at 
the time  but hes since had the opportunity to put forward his explanation. 
Therefore, I dont think this changes the conclusion Ive reached. 
In summary, for the reasons, Ive explained, Im satisfied that N26 had grounds to believe 
that Mr M was in the dispersal of fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it had. I 
So, I think it was fair for N26 to register the CIFAS marker.
Customer service
Mr M has also complained about the service he received from N26. Namely that N26s final 
response letter was addressed to someone other than him. I can see N26 have accepted 
that their service wasnt up to standard and apologised. It has explained that it made an 
administrative error. The content of the letter is accurate and reflects the complaint relating 
to Mr M. I cant see that Mr M has been caused any detriment. So, I think this is a 
reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman