DRN-3976445
The complaint
BGC (formerly BEL) complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (formerly Allied Dunbar) referred 
to as Zurich failed to amend the life cover policy as requested in 2004. As a consequence, 
the policy is still in the name of BEL which was dissolved in 1999. 
BGC cant surrender the policy because it doesnt own it and is concerned that the proceeds 
will belong to the Crown at the point of claim. This wouldnt have happened if Zurich had 
done what it was instructed to do. 
BGC was being assisted by a firm of solicitors. 
What happened
In 1992, BEL took out Lifeline Plan, also known as a Keyman Policy, referred to as the 
policy. At the time Mr W1 was the life assured. 
In or around 1994 a partnership was set up called BGC, to which the business was 
transferred and Zurich notified, but parties concede they can no longer trace any material 
paperwork. 
In any case, the business and individual owners remained identical. In 1999, BEL was 
dissolved and removed from the register of companies. The solicitors say the time limit to 
reinstate a company is six years and this expired in 2005. 
The solicitors say that if Zurich had informed BGC of what was needed to change the policy 
ownership when it was notified of the transfer of business in 1994 matters couldve been 
resolved at the time. Because it didnt , BGC now has no choice but to liaise with the 
Treasury Solicitor and Office of the Attorney General, who have indicated that it would 
require an application made for a Vesting Order.
Zurich remains of the view that it would still require a Court Order before it can take any 
action regarding this issue. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
response to a series of questions (referenced below), she made the following observations:
In July 1994, was Zurich at fault by not noting the change in company status and/or 
not notifying BGC of the requirement of a Deed of Transfer, at a time when any 
issues couldve been resolved?
oIn 1994 BEL sent a generic letter to its customers and suppliers about a 
name change. Theres nothing to suggest that Zurich was directly notified 
about this or about the change of the policy ownership. 
oIn1994, Zurich wrote to Mrs T (one of the companys owner and 
shareholders) at the correspondence address for BGC (referenced as G Ltd 
(name anonymised). The correspondence referred to the Keyman policy, but 
not to a change in ownership. Shortly after this, letters were sent to a different 
address but its not clear if this was on the instruction of BGC. 
In October 2004, was Zurich at fault for not heeding to a change in company status, 
and/or not notifying BGC that it would require reinstatement of BEL to the company 
record when it was still possible to do so?
oIn 2004, Zurich was asked by BGC to amend the business name which Zurich 
concedes it didnt fully act upon. Although BGC was added to the address 
alongside BEL, the policy still belonged to BEL as evidenced by 2005 
statements. This shows that BGC knew, or ought reasonably to have known, 
that the policy still belonged to BEL. 
oThe onus was on the customer to ensure that the policy documents reflected 
the correct information and to provide the business with the correct 
information. 
oIf the policy had been successfully updated BGC wouldve been provided with 
an updated policy schedule with the policy being issued to BGC.   
Is Zurich responsible for meeting any legal costs incurred by BGC in resolving this 
matter, given that Zurich insists upon the provision of an Order of the Court, because 
it failed to deal with change of status of BEL?
oBEL was required to transfer its assets (including the policy) when the 
company was dissolved, but it didnt in respect of the policy. 
oIn 2004, if Zurich had advised BGC of the requirements to change the policy 
owner, BGC still wouldve incurred costs to reinstate BEL, so Zurich shouldnt 
have to pay now.  
Was Zurich at fault for continuing to accept premiums from BGC, despite the policy 
belonging to BEL? 
oThe person or entity paying premiums doesnt have to be an owner. The 
premiums applied have kept the policy alive. So, Zurich hasnt done anything 
wrong in this instance by receiving premiums.   
Has Zurich treated BGC fairly and reasonably throughout this process?
oZurich accepts administrative shortcomings in 2004, and more recently with 
an address change in 2020. But even if these hadnt happened, BGC would 
still have needed to change the policy ownership. It had information to hand 
that couldve helped it act sooner. 
If there are shortcomings on the part of Zurich, what other remedies are there?
oThe policy ownership caused BGC frustration, but Zurich has been writing to 
it at the (original) address since 2004 all addressed to BEL, at BGC  
suggesting the policy is still in BELs name. In the circumstances Zurich 
shouldve been informed sooner that there was an issue with the policy 
details and ownership.
oSince 2007, Zurich hasnt been able to send policy information because the 
annual statements were returned undelivered, and no updated address was 
provided. In the circumstances Zurich was right to wait for the customer 
(BGC/BEL) to contact it, rather than it continue to send correspondence to the 
same address or chase the customers which it isnt required to do.  
oWhere a business has made a mistake, wed offer compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. But BGC, although an eligible complainant, is an entity, 
and therefore isnt eligible for payment for distress and inconvenience.  
Zurich continued to communicate with Mrs T in relation to the policy  until 2021. It 
accepts that it shouldnt have done so because she didnt own the policy (she was a 
beneficiary), so it was right to stop when the error came to light. Because Mrs T is 
involved with BGC, there wasnt a risk of disclosing (sensitive) information to the 
wrong person.  
Mrs T believes the policy was mis-sold. It was taken out with BEL for Mr W1, 
because a similar policy was also taken out for Mr W1, which was in his own name 
not BEL. But the investigator hasnt considered this part of the complaint because its 
a separate issue that hasnt previously been raised.    BGC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, Mrs T made the following points:
The investigator has misunderstood the point(s) in relation to the events of 1994. She 
hasnt asked herself why correspondence was sent to BGC and the home address of 
Mrs T, if Zurich still believed the policy belonged to BEL. Its actions would suggest 
that it had been notified of the change of details and theres no other way it wouldve 
written to G Ltd unless it had been supplied with a new Certificate of Registration 
from BGC in April 2004  six months before it was sent the reminder in October 
2004. 
Zurich accepts it failed to take heed even though the investigator suggests that it 
didnt. BGC isnt an insurance specialist and therefore shouldnt have known there 
was a problem because it wasnt sent an updated schedule. BGC placed its trust in 
Zurich and complied with the relevant terms and conditions. 
BGC (and BEL) were trying to provide the correct information but dealing with a 
bunch of incompetents making it impossible.  
Zurich should meet the legal costs incurred by BGC, including employing a barrister 
to represent them at court, and instructing solicitors. Because Zurich failed to rectify 
its errors the legal cost is higher than it shouldve been. 
Zurich has admitted to making errors therefore it should take ownership of the 
problem and put right everything it has done wrong. 
If Zurich had done its job right in 2004, BGC wouldve been within the six-year time 
limit, and so been able to change legal ownership which wouldve been easier. If it 
hadnt made a mistake, it wouldnt be where it is now. 
The transfer of assets did happen when BEL was dissolved but Zurich didnt keep the 
paperwork. 
BGC is disappointed with how this complaint had been handled.
The investigator having considered all the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what BGC says, I cant safely 
say that Zurich behaved in such a way that this complaint should be upheld. 
BGC has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope it wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by BGC and Zurich, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Im aware that the business has consented to us considering the merits of this complaint. 
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
The responsibility to notify an insurer of the change of name and policy ownership 
lies with the policy owner. In this instance I dont think that issuing a generic letter 
notifying customers and suppliers of a change of name as BEL (as the owner of the 
policy) did in 1994 meant that Zurich shouldve automatically changed the ownership 
from BEL to BGC. 
Like the investigator, Ive seen no evidence that Zurich was specially written to and 
given such instructions, and/or notice of intended change of ownership of the policy. I 
note in correspondence with the solicitors Zurich says that theres no formal evidence 
that effected the transfer of the legal title to the plan from its original ownership prior 
to the BEL being dissolved. Arguably this wouldve been a reasonable time to sort 
out this issue, but this wasnt done, and may explain why BGC tried to do it in 2004, 
10 years after the name change. 
In earlier correspondence with the solicitors Zurich made clear that ownership of a 
life plan is typically transferred by way of assignment, normally using an appropriately 
drafted deed. Ive seen no evidence that this was done.
Its my understanding that unless the policy ownership is specifically dealt with  and 
not just the company name issue  the policy will likely remain in the name of the 
owner (company) in whose name it was first taken out. This is unless active steps are 
taken to put the policy  legally  in a new name, which didnt happen here. 
In due course, the instructions ought to have come from BEL, who owned the policy, 
and not BGC as the company subsequently it became known as. So, its arguable 
that in 2004, when contact was made by BGC regarding the change of name, Zurich 
wouldnt have been able to do much because the instructions werent from the policy 
owner. The fact that BEL had been dissolved is a separate issue and may explain 
why in the circumstances it belonged to the Crown. So, on the face of the evidence, 
and on balance, despite what the solicitors and/or BGC say, I cant safely say that in 
October 2004 Zurich failed to heed the change in company status. 
Its also arguable that there was nothing that the business could do itself, without 
third-party assistance, even if it tried to amend the policy ownership itself it couldnt 
without official court documentation.  
I note Zurich accepts it was asked by BGC to make the necessary arrangement to 
change the plan ownership in 2004, but for the reasons set out above, it wouldve 
been unable to simply transfer the ownership at this stage. 
I note Zurich, in line with its processes, required a court order. Despite what the 
solicitors say, I cant blame Zurich for this, or for not simply accepting a statutory 
declaration instead. In other words, unless BGC could provide documents that 
evidence the transfer of legal title, prior to BEL being dissolved, theres nothing more 
it can do. 
On balance, Im satisfied that Zurich certainly couldnt make any changes without the 
necessary legal documentation  which BGC arguably wouldve been responsible for 
obtaining and paying for in order to facilitate the transfer of ownership. Therefore, on 
balance, I cant say that Zurich is now responsible for picking up the cost, even if its 
greater now than it wouldve been had matters been dealt with at the outset. 
Despite what the solicitors and BGC say, I dont think Zurich was wrong to continue 
to accept premiums, because it had no reason not to. In other words, it accepting 
payment wasnt contingent on anything, and there were no restrictions on it doing so. Anyone can pay for a policy belonging to a third party even though they might not 
benefit from a payout and/or have no legal ownership and/or rights over the policy  
none of these are a prerequisite for paying/receiving payment for a policy to keep it 
going. 
Notwithstanding the above points, I note that since 2007 Zurich  through no fault of 
its own  has been unable to send any policy documentation because of address 
issues. In the circumstances I cant say that Zurich has done anything wrong by not 
chasing the owner or for not continuing to send the statements/documents to a place 
that isnt correct. 
But prior to this, I note documentation wouldve been sent in the name of BEL. So, 
BGC knew, or ought reasonably to have known, what the situation was with regards 
to ownership of the policy. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not satisfied that Zurich is now 
responsible for any (remedial) action that needs to be taken, because matters 
werent dealt with appropriately at or around the time that the business name was or 
was about to be change but no specific application was made to change legal 
ownership of the policy from BEL to BGC. 
I note BGC has now been told what it needs to do in order to resolve matters, so on 
balance I agree with the investigator that Zurich doesnt need to do anything further. 
Despite what BGC says, I understand that the correspondence was sent to Mrs T 
(because she linked to the company) and BEL (because it was an address linked to it 
and BGC). I understand that this situation is far from ideal, but the position simply 
isnt clear. Despite what BGC/Mrs T says, in the absence of any documentary 
evidence, on balance I cant safely say that this was done as a result of Zurich being 
successfully notified of the intended change of legal ownership, and that it still 
deliberately chose to ignore this.  
I also agree with the investigator that the onus was on the customer to ensure that 
the policy documents reflected the correct information or to provide the business with 
the correct information if it didnt. On the face of the evidence, this doesnt appear to 
be the case. 
If the policy had been successfully updated BGC wouldve been provided with an 
updated policy schedule with the policy being issued to BGC. This didnt happen 
therefore BGC ought reasonably to have known that the policy still belonged to BEL. 
I dont accept that it needed to be an expert in insurance for it to be aware. But on 
balance Im unable to say that it took meaningful action to address the issue. 
I agree with the investigators comments regarding the complaint about suitability. I 
note this issue wasnt referred to our service so isnt something I can consider and 
certainly not before the issue has been considered by the business.    
I appreciate that BGC will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what it wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate the frustration, I cant safely say that Zurich behaved unreasonably such that this 
complaint should be upheld. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give BGC what it wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint, and I make no award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman