DRN-2696539
The complaint
Ms M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to provide her with 
bank statements in time for a court hearing.  
What happened
Ms M says she telephoned NatWest in late July 2020, to order back dated bank statements 
she required for an upcoming court hearing. Ms M says during the call she was told the 
statements would arrive within 12 days and when they didnt arrive, she spoke to a member 
of NatWest vulnerable care team who suggested she visit her local branch to have them 
printed. Ms M says when she visited the branch, they advised her they couldnt produce the 
statements she needed that day and neither could they provide her with a letter stating she 
had ordered them, for her to produce to the court. As a result, Ms M says she has incurred 
court and legal fees that she feels NatWest should refund along with compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
NatWest says they ordered the statements when Ms M requested them and cant be held 
responsible for them not arriving in time for the court hearing. NatWest says the branch were 
right in saying they couldnt have produced a letter confirming the statements had been 
ordered as this would need to be done centrally. In any event NatWest says, the letter 
couldnt have been made available in time for the court hearing, which was only a few days 
away. NatWest says they havent done anything wrong here and have refunded the charge 
for the historic statements. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld part of Ms Ms complaint. 
The investigator says NatWest couldnt be held responsible for the late arrival of the historic 
bank statements, but he felt NatWest had created more problems for Ms M when they 
suggested she call into the branch for the statements to be produced, when this was never 
possible. The investigator suggested NatWest pay Ms M £500 by way of compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to her.
NatWest have accepted the recommendations of the investigator, but Ms M is unhappy with 
the level of compensation offered and has asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand that it would have been a worrying and stressful time for Ms M knowing she 
had an upcoming court hearing, and how important it was to her that she obtained the 
statements she required for that hearing. When looking at this case I have considered if 
NatWest were responsible for the late delivery of the historic bank statements Ms M had 
ordered and if they could have done more to help her when she visited the branch. 
Ms M says she needed historic bank statements for an upcoming court hearing, and I can 
see this would have been important to her at the time. Ms M says she was told when she 
first telephoned NatWest, the statements would be with her within 12 days. Ms M has gone 
on to say when these statements didnt arrive, and given it was getting closer to the court 
date, she spoke to NatWest again who suggested she visit the branch to get the statements. 
Ms M says when she visited the branch after waiting a considerable period of time, she was 
told this couldnt be done and neither could they produce a letter for her to show she had 
ordered them. Ms M has told this service, as a result she couldnt produce the statements in 
time for the court hearing and was left with considerable court and legal costs that could 
have been avoided. Ms M is looking for NatWest to refund her costs and provide 
compensation for the upset caused. 
I understand the points Ms M has raised and have listened to the telephone call she made to  
NatWest in late July 2020 when she requested the historic bank statements. During the call 
the member of staff says the statements should be available within 12 days, and its clear 
from the call he was ordering the statements there and then. While the member of staff says 
the statements should arrive within 12 days, he doesnt offer any guarantee of delivery, but it 
is clear he ordered them at that time, and I dont support Ms Ms view that these werent 
ordered at that time. I say this as the statement request triggered a debit to Ms Ms account 
the following day for the cost of the statements, which follows the banks process here. So, it 
follows, on balance, Im satisfied NatWest did order the historic bank statements, on the day 
Ms M called them. 
Its important to say that while NatWest sent the statements and carried out Ms Ms request, 
I cant hold them responsible for the delivery of them as they are reliant on a third party here 
to make the delivery. Its possible, during the backdrop of the pandemic, this could  have 
contributed to issues over delivery, either way it would have been outside NatWests control. 
Like the investigator, I am satisfied NatWest could have been clearer regarding the likelihood 
of being able to get the bank statements in time for her court hearing once she had told them 
these hadnt arrived. Ms M says she was told by NatWest to visit the branch when she called 
them in August. I havent been provided with a copy of that telephone call, as its not 
available, but I cant see why Ms M would go into the branch to request them if she didnt 
believe this was possible. I say this because she was told in her initial call to NatWest In 
July, that ordering the statements was the only way these could be obtained, so even though 
Ms M had been told this before, on balance, in all probability I am satisfied,  she was told 
she should try and visit the branch to obtain the historic statements. I have no way of 
knowing what was actually said here but Ms M has taken from that conversation there was a 
possibility this could be done. 
Of course, there will always be people in any organisation that will understand how these 
processes work better than others, but Ms M wouldnt have known that. I am satisfied this 
led to an  unnecessary branch visit and given Ms Ms health issues, it only added to the 
inconvenience she was caused and led her to believe the bank statements could be made 
available when they couldnt.
I dont however, support Ms Ms view the staff at NatWest should have been able to provide 
a letter for her to prove she had ordered the historic bank statements at the time she visited 
the branch. I say this as this is not part of NatWests process and its not my role to tell 
NatWest how they should deal with these requests. What is clear is, even if they had carried 
out the process to request a letter, as Ms M wished, this wouldnt have been produced in 
time for her upcoming court hearing. So, while NatWest made some service mistakes here, I am satisfied these didnt contribute 
to the costs Ms M says she has incurred as they werent responsible for the delivery date of 
the historic bank statements, for the reasons I have already given. 
The investigator awarded a compensation for the trouble and upset Ms M faced when she 
visited the branch and the poor service she received, which NatWest have acknowledged. 
While Ms M will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied the level of compensation 
suggested by the investigator is more than reasonable here.   
Putting things right
I instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Ms M £500 for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Ms M £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman