DRN-2958415
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Covea Insurance plc have unfairly only partially settled their 
claim, under their home insurance policy, following flood damage.  
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here.
My provisional decision
I didnt think that Covea had acted fairly in not accepting the full claim. I set out my reasons 
why. I said:
Mr and Mrs D purchased this house approximately forty years ago. From what I can see, it 
came with a right of way along a driveway connecting their property and the road. 
Approximately ten years later they purchased an adjacent parcel of land which included the 
majority of this driveway. And so, Mr and Mrs D have explained that from that point onwards 
they considered the additional land as part of their property  with the land being registered 
as part of their home address. They purchased insurance on this basis, making sure the sum 
they were insuring the property for included the additional driveway. I dont consider this 
unreasonable, given that although on two titles, both had the same registered address.
Ive also looked at Mr and Mrs Ds policy documentation. And having done so, I dont think 
the policy wording makes it clear that Covea only intended to insure the part of                   
Mr and Mrs Ds driveway that was on the same title. 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy with Covea covers them for damage to the building caused 
by.flood. The policy then goes on to define building as your home as shown in the 
Statement of Insurance and, if they form part of the property:drives. Property is then 
defined as the building and the land within its boundary. However, the policy doesnt define 
boundary. 
As this isnt specified, I dont think it would be reasonable to decide this particular claim 
based on the title alone. It wouldnt have been clear to Mr and Mrs D that they would need to 
purchase separate insurance for land bought at a later date.
Ive also seen the two titles. And, as above these are both registered to the same address. 
So, it seems to me that after this was purchased, it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs D to 
consider the land part of the same property  it marking a clear line between public land and 
the private land registered to their home. 
Its my understanding that Mr and Mrs D purchased their insurance, with a sum insured 
sufficient to cover all of their land. And I havent seen any evidence provided by Covea to 
suggest otherwise. Mr and Mrs D paid a premium that would have reflected this sum 
insured. And given the above uncertainty in the policy wording, it seems fair and reasonable 
that Mr and Mrs D should receive the benefit of this.  
In summary, I dont think that Covea have acted fairly in only partially settling the claim. The 
policy doesnt make clear that not all of Mr and Mrs Ds land would be covered. And I dont 
think it is fair or reasonable to expect that Mr and Mrs D would have known this.
Mr and Mrs D responded to say that they agreed with my assessment. They only added that 
the additional quote for repairs was no longer valid and there was further damage by the 
work not being completed. They also added that there had been ongoing stress from the 
continued declining of the claim. 
Covea Insurance responded to say that they didnt accept my provisional decision. They 
provided comments from their legal representative as well as their technical manager. They 
pointed to the fact that a further parcel of land had been purchased and queried if that and 
all further purchases of land would be included with the policy. 
They stated that they shouldnt need to define everything and felt that the normal definition of 
boundary supports their argument that cover should extend to areas on different title deeds. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Covea would raise questions about the most recent purchase of land and 
whether a claim on it would fall under this policy. However, I am looking at this case on its 
own merits. This claim is for damage to land that was all purchased prior to this policy being 
taken out. And, whilst Ive considered Coveas response in full, Im satisfied it doesnt 
change my decision on this particular case.
Covea has said it shouldnt need to define the word boundary in its policy documents. Of 
course, it is Coveas decision as to what words it chooses to define in its policy. But where a 
word isnt defined, I need to consider what is a fair and reasonable understanding in the 
circumstances.
And I dont think Mr and Mrs D acted unreasonably in purchasing this policy, on the 
understanding that the house and driveway would be included. Covea hasnt provided me 
with any evidence in its response to my provisional decision to suggest that Mr and Mrs D 
were given any information when they were purchasing the property to suggest that they 
were doing the wrong thing by covering the house and driveway under one policy. And Im 
not persuaded that the information within the policy makes it clear that Covea wouldnt cover 
the drive, if under a separate title.
The policy includes cover for driveways. They have one postcode and the house and 
driveway were, and still are, under that postcode at the time the policy was taken out. So, I 
think that in the absence of any information to tell Mr and Mrs D otherwise, they came to a 
reasonable conclusion that they could insure both items, at the same address, under one 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs D have said as the land was all under one address, they calculated the sum 
insured they needed, to account for both the house and the driveway. And there is no dispute that the sum insured is adequate. So, Mr and Mrs D have paid the 
relevant premium to ensure Covea is covering the house and drive.  
If Covea think that all land registries should have been insured separately, then that should 
have been made clearer at the time the property was sold, and in the policy documents. 
  
Putting things right
I dont think Covea have acted fairly in not settling the claim in full. I think Mr and Mrs D 
acted reasonably and in good faith when taking out the policy, insured themselves 
adequately and the documentation should have been clearer if land under separate title 
deeds needed to be insured separately in this instance. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Covea Insurance plc should deal with 
the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
They will need to add simple interest to the settlement amount at 8% from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement.  
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Covea Insurance plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Covea Insurance plc must give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman