DRN-3681649
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that U K Insurance Limited mishandled their claim on the home
emergency section of their home insurance policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include its claims
management company or home emergency company, engineers and others insofar as I hold 
UKI responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had an upstairs bathroom with a shower over the bath. The bath had a side
panel. The bathroom also had a hand basin. Below the bathroom was a kitchen and a dining
room.
Mr and Mrs G had a home insurance policy. It had a section covering home buildings for
damage, including from an escape of water. The same policy also had a section covering
home emergency assistance. UKI was responsible for dealing with any claim.
On 30 April 2021 (a Friday before a bank holiday weekend), Mrs G noticed water and damp 
on her kitchen tiles and realised there was an escape of water in the property. So she called 
for home emergency assistance under the policy. UKI visited the same day and isolated the 
shower.
Later, Mr and Mrs Gs own contractor said the leak was coming from under the bath.
Mr and Mrs G made a claim on the home buildings section for the damage caused by the
escape of water. UKI appointed loss adjusters.
In late June 2021, Mr and Mrs G complained to UKI about its proposed settlement of about
£5,000.00 for the escape of water claim.
In July 2021, Mr and Mrs G complained to UKI that its response to the emergency was
responsible for damage to their property.
By a final response dated 30 July 2021, UKI said it didnt investigate home emergency
complaints. In relation to the escape of water claim, it offered £250.00 compensation for poor
service.
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to us without delay.
By a final response dated 21 September 2021, the claims management company on behalf
of UKI turned down the complaint about its home emergency response.
In March 2022, we divided the complaint into a complaint about the escape of water claim
and a complaint about the home emergency response.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint about the home emergency response
should be upheld. He thought that UKI isolated the incorrect area and this allowed the water
to continue to flood the bathroom which then resulted in the additional damage to the rest of
the property, making the claim a lot larger than it shouldve been. None of the extra damage
wouldve occurred had the initial leak been diagnosed correctly, the investigator said. He 
recommended that UKI should:
1. pending Mr and Mrs G providing evidence of the cost of repairs paid, pay them the 
remaining cost that they had to pay to have all repairs completed;
2. amend the claim on the database to reflect only the cost of repairs to the bathroom 
itself and not the full damage to the kitchen and surrounding areas caused by the 
water escape;
3. in addition to the £250.00 it had offered, pay a further £250.00 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the misdiagnosis of the escape of water.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs G and to UKI on 14 August 2022. I summarise my findings:
I hadnt found the emergency engineer responsible for an unreasonable failure to 
trace or diagnose the leak. But even if I had, there wasnt enough evidence to say 
how much such a failure wouldve increased the monetary value of the claim or the 
extent of distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs G.
In any event, UKI didnt decline to meet any particular part of the escape of water 
claim (such as the damage to the dining room). Rather UKI said that its estimate of 
the cost of repair was lower than the estimates provided by Mr and Mrs G.
Further, I noted that Mr and Mrs G had provided only estimates rather than evidence 
of what theyd paid.
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs G or from UKI, my provisional decision 
was that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct U K Insurance Limited to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
UKI had no further comments on the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs G disagree with the provisional decision. They say, in summary, that: 
The leak came from under the bath; the pipe was free-standing. It was in a small 
area shared with the shower supply and they both used the bath's wastepipe. 
The position of the leakage down the kitchen wall always suggested it most likely 
came from the bath/shower area which was located immediately above.
UKI's engineer made little or no effort to locate the leak. He didn't know where it was 
coming from but thought it was the shower. He didnt look under the bath. It would 
have been common sense to isolate the supply to both (which can easily be done 
without draining down tanks).
He knew he hadn't fixed the leak and that water was still running. Yet he was happy 
to leave the water supply connected and said they could use the bath. This was not 
professional and contributed to the increased water damage.They tried unsuccessfully to find a plumber who could do a Trace & Access over 
the Bank Holiday.
On Sunday 2 May 2021, the kitchen ceiling had become sodden and a section 
collapsed. They called a contractor who that evening removed kitchen cabinets and 
electric cooker hood, to limit damage. 
After the Bank Holiday, the partially collapsed ceiling afforded a view of the exact 
location of the leak under the bath.
The leaking pipe could be seen once the bath panel had been removed. The precise 
location was between the bath and the wall. It remained difficult to access it.
Their contractor isolated the leak on Tuesday 4 May. So isolation took a total of 
under 5 days. Any 'delay' was enforced by the Bank Holiday. 
They did not use either the shower or bath until the leak had been fixed.
On Wednesday 5 May, UKI's contractor arrived to commence drying, stripping walls, 
and lifting flooring. They also asked Mr and Mrs Gs contractor to remove more 
kitchen units. Although essential, this work did contribute to overall damage and 
costs.
The pipe below the bath was not cut until later, as part of their alterations.
They incorporated some changes as part of the repair work. Therefore there is no 
separate documentation to evidence the repair work, but they have provided a 
breakdown of their contractor's estimates. 
Examples of areas of concern include:
ono 'new for old' allowance
oreplacing large area of kitchen tiles with different size and pattern.
UKI paid a second £250 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The home emergency cover was for help up to £500.00.
Any claim on the escape of water section of the home buildings policy was subject to an
excess, which I think was £550.00.
My decision is about the complaint insofar as it relates to the home emergency response.
I hold UKI responsible for the home emergency response through its claims management
company. I consider that UKI shouldve given a substantive response to the complaint in its
final response rather than leaving it to the claims management company. But that didnt
delay Mr and Mrs G from bringing their complaint to us.
Mr and Mrs G already had a problem when she contacted UKI. Thats why she contacted
UKI.
The home emergency engineer made some site notes as follows:
At arrival found water running from the wall at the kitchen. Above is a bathroom and
PH has another bathroom As well. The water meter is still running after when The
water is not in use. The bathrom is tiled and the wall As well so IT Will need major
T&A to see where the leak comes from excatly. For isolaton the shower pump's
isolation valves has been closed and switched the power off As well. The bath and
the other bathroom facilities are available to use
The engineer also took some photographs. From the site notes and photographs, I findthat water had already escaped from the bathroom into the floor and ceiling and down the
kitchen wall.
I also find that the engineer identified the fact that the bathroom was tiled (so he couldnt see
any pipes). He considered that there was a need for a major trace and access to find out
where the leak was coming from and to make access to it for a repair.
So the emergency engineer hadnt traced where the leak was coming from. From the
photographs, I find it likely that he mustve considered a number of possibilities. These
possibilities included a leak from the shower pipe, a leak through grouting or sealant, a leak
from the basin or a leak from the hot or cold supply to the bath or from the bath waste.
I dont consider that the emergency engineer shouldve removed the bath panel even if Mr 
and Mrs G had permitted it.
I dont accept that the home emergency engineer gave a diagnosis that the leak was coming
from the shower. Whilst he turned off the isolation valve for the shower pump, I consider that
this was a precaution pending trace and access.
Mr G hasnt provided any detail of how there was a way of isolating the water supply to the 
bath taps, short of turning off the main stopcock and draining down the water in the tanks 
and pipes, which wouldve been inconvenient for Mr and Mrs G.
I find it likely that there was already a need to take down part of the celling and to remove
the bath to find and fix the leak. That was going to involve damage in the bathroom and
kitchen. So I find it likely that Mr and Mrs G were going to experience upheaval and to make
a claim for escape of water and so incur the excess.
Overall I dont find that the emergency engineers response fell below a reasonable standard 
in the circumstances. 
The first loss adjuster who inspected the damage commented as follows:
 The failure of the emergency contractors to correctly diagnose the leak led to a
significantly higher claim.
That was the loss adjusters opinion. But I havent found the emergency engineer
responsible for an unreasonable failure to trace or diagnose the leak. But even if I had, 
theres not enough evidence to say how much such a failure wouldve increased the
monetary value of the claim or the extent of distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs G.
In any event, UKI didnt decline to meet any particular part of the escape of water claim
(such as the damage to the dining room). Rather UKI said that its estimate of the cost of
repair was lower than the estimates provided by Mr and Mrs G.
Further, I note that Mr and Mrs G rely on estimates of repairs. They acknowledge that the 
actual repairs were carried out involving alterations as well.
Overall I dont uphold this complaint insofar as it relates to the home emergency response. I 
recognise that Mr and Mrs G may wish us to investigate further their complaint that (for 
various reasons including not paying new for old) UKI didnt pay them enough for their 
escape of water claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman