DRN-2915737
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund over two hundred 
transactions, amounting to over £25,000, which they dispute to having carried out from their 
account. 
What happened
In July 2020, Mr and Mrs W contacted HSBC and told it they had been the victims of fraud. 
Mrs W explained that from late 2019 their account had been debited with substantial 
payments which they had not authorised. 
Mr and Mrs W say their debit cards have been cloned in order to facilitate the fraud. That the 
fraudsters have spent their funds in the same places they usually go to, and for similar 
values they would typically carry out themselves. 
Mrs W says she, and Mr W, have had their mobile phones hacked for well over sixteen years 
by her brother. And its likely hes behind this fraud. Mr and Mrs W also suggest the 
transactions could have been carried out by person(s) theyve been acquainted with 
previously.  
Our investigator set-out in detail all the transactions Mr and Mrs W dispute to having made. 
So, as both parties are familiar with them, I wont be setting them here in my final decision. 
The transactions Mr and Mrs W dispute were carried out on three different debit cards. One 
of them was Mr Ws, and the other two belonged to Mrs W. Her cards ran consecutively  
the latter one replaced the former. 
 
HSBC looked into Mr and Mrs Ws claims. And it said it was most likely Mr and Mrs W 
authorised the transactions they dispute. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs W complained. In its 
final response, and in summary, HSBC concluded: 
It has measures in place to identify if a CHIP has been successfully cloned, though 
there hasnt been any case of one yet being cloned in the UK
There is no available evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs Ws cards were cloned
One of the ATM locations Mr and Mrs W contest as being valid - as the address is a 
residential one - is a valid ATM and location 
The police station Mr and Mrs W reported this matter to confirm that following an 
investigation, they could not conclude Mr and Mrs W had been the victim of fraud
  
HSBC cannot conclude Mr and Mrs W had been the victims of fraud, and as a result 
will not be refunding the disputed activity on their account  
HSBC will not pay Mr and Mrs W any compensation for the calls they have made to it 
for chasing a response to their complaint. Thats because it has acted within 
regulatory timescales
Unhappy with what HSBC said, Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into this matter and did not uphold the complaint. They found 
Mr and Mrs Ws cards were not likely cloned. And the evidence suggested the police hadnt 
found any evidence of fraud, nor were they looking to raid a property Mr and Mrs W say the 
fraud was being orchestrated from. 
Our investigator also looked at the transaction activity and noted it wasnt consistent with 
what theyd expect to see from a fraudster  that is, a fraudster would look to maximise 
financial gain. They also found, in some instances, genuine transactions were carried out by 
Mr and Mrs W, and then there was some disputed ones within a few minutes. Because of 
this, they thought it was very unlikely someone would take their card, make a transaction 
and then return it without them knowing. 
Our investigator also thought it was unlikely a fraudster would be able to commit fraud on 
three separate cards without being caught. Unhappy with what our investigator said, 
Mr and Mrs W have asked for their complaint to be decided by an ombudsman.
It follows I must now decide this matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Mr and Mrs W, so Ill explain why. 
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr and Mrs W liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not, they made or authorised them. 
HSBC have sent me technical records that cover the period Mr and Mrs W have said the 
disputed activity took place on their cards. Having carefully reviewed this information, Im 
satisfied it shows Mr and Mrs Ws genuine cards and respective PIN numbers were used to 
make the disputed transactions. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC 
to hold them liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more 
likely than not Mr and Mrs W consented to the transactions being made.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is that the cards were cloned. Mrs W is certain 
fraudsters have targeted both her and her husband and used sophisticated methods to 
defraud them by cloning their cards and mimicking their usual day-to-day spending activity to 
go undetected. 
Having given this some thought, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ws cards were unlikely cloned. 
Ive already said Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ws genuine cards were used. And based on what 
our service has seen, and the industry guidance available to us, we have yet to see a 
complaint where the CHIP on a card has been cloned. 
I know Mrs W feels strongly their cards were cloned. From what weve seen at this service, 
the magnetic strip part of the card can be cloned. But the majority of transactions disputed 
here involve the CHIP part of the card being read and then the PIN entered to authenticate 
the payment. Similarly, the genuine cards would also have to have been presented to carry 
out the other contactless payments. So it follows Im persuaded Mr and Mrs Ws genuine cards  the ones they say have always 
been in their possession  were used.
Having looked at the transactions that took place on the account over the period 
Mr and Mrs W say the fraudulent transaction were made, Im satisfied their cards were 
unlikely ever intercepted by any fraudster. I say that because all the transactions in dispute 
sit amongst, and are therefore interspersed, between transaction Mr and Mrs W say they 
genuinely made. 
Given the above pattern, and that it occurred over many months, I question how a fraudster 
could have taken one of the cards, carried out fraud and then replaced the card without 
either Mr and Mrs W knowing. When considering this happened on multiple occasions, the 
likelihood of this happening becomes even more remote. So much so, that its highly 
implausible.  
At this point, I should add that I have carefully listened to all the calls made available to me 
that took place between HSBC and Mr and Mrs W. On the call Mrs W raises the disputed 
transactions, I note on several of the transactions, she cant be sure if she, or Mr W, carried 
them out. This is partly attributable to her having to recall what happened several months 
ago. I accept memories fade with time, but considering what Ive said above, I think theres 
also a possibility some of the transactions under dispute may be mistaken. 
Mr and Mrs W say they never wrote down nor shared their PIN numbers. If that is the case, 
then its difficult to see how fraudsters were able carry out the alleged fraud.  
Ive also paid careful attention to what Mr and Mrs W have said about any police involvement 
and who they think is behind the fraud committed against them. Ive seen a letter from the 
police which shows it had been communicating with HSBC. And HSBCs internal notes show 
the police had told it they had not found any evidence of fraud nor were they about to raid a 
property in connection with a fraud investigation as Mrs W had said. I have no reason to 
question the credibility of this information.
Mr and Mrs W say that one of the ATM machines used for carrying our fraud doesnt exist as 
the street it is on is purely a residential one. HSBC say thats not the case and have sent me 
a picture of the street with an ATM machine being prominently observable as part of another 
banks branch. So I think Mr and Mrs W are most likely mistaken about this. 
Lastly, and for the sake of completeness, I note Mr and Mrs W also complained to HSBC 
about having to chase it for an answer to its claim, and complaint, about the disputed 
transactions. But I havent seen anything that suggests HSBC have acted unreasonably or 
unfairly when it investigated and answered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  
So, to conclude, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs Ws cards were cloned. I also find it 
implausible that someone, or a group of individuals, unknown to them, were able to steal and 
replace their cards without them knowing - over several months and carry out over 200 
transactions. 
The possibility of this is further diminished by the fact there is no rationale to explain how 
someone knew Mr and Mrs Ws PIN numbers. And the transactions took place in amongst 
Mrs and Mrs Ws genuine everyday spend using the same cards. 
So after weighing everything up, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs W either carried out the 
transactions themselves or gave authority to someone else to do so. Given the passage of time, its also possible Mr and Mrs W may have forgotten about some of the transactions 
they may have carried out. 
This means I wont be asking HSBC to refund Mr and Mrs W any of the transaction they 
dispute to having made. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman