DRN-1774279
 
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy Revolut Ltd wont refund him for a point of sale transaction that he says he 
didnt carry out.
What happened
Mr L is disputing a card payment for £161.55 made to a restaurant in Miami Florida on 11 
August 2019.
Mr L has told us he was in America at the time visiting family, flying to Boston on 2 August 
2019 where he stayed until he travelled onto Toronto Canada on 12 August 2019. He says 
he didnt travel to Miami at all. Hes provided a booking confirmation in the name of a family 
member for a hotel stay in Boston from 6 to 12 August 2019  he says he stayed with family 
up to this point. Mr L has also provided hotel booking confirmation for a hotel in Toronto from 
12 to 16 August 2019.
Mr L topped up his Revolut card on 8 August 2019 as he said he intended to use it whilst he 
was abroad. He says he never gave it to anyone else to use. He explained that his PIN 
wasnt written down and he hadnt told it to anyone. However, he said it was his date of birth. 
Mr L told us he took a different credit card on the trip and this card had the same PIN as his 
Revolut one. He didnt end up using his Revolut card whilst abroad, instead he used his 
other credit card.
Mr L says he spotted the transaction when he checked his account and noticed his balance 
had decreased. He reported it to Revolut via its app service on 21 August 2019. He says he 
intended to use the card but didnt after noticing the disputed transactions. Mr L was still in 
possession of the card after the disputed transaction took place and when he got back to the 
UK.
Revolut didnt agree to refund Mr L. It explained that the transaction was carried out using 
chip and PIN and because of this, it was satisfied the genuine card was used. As this was 
still in Mr Ls possession, it felt he mustve carried out the transaction.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
wasnt satisfied that the evidence Mr L provided was enough to show he wasnt in Miami at 
the time of the transaction. She was satisfied the genuine card was used to carry out the 
transaction and because Mr L says he had it in his possession at all times, she concluded it 
was most likely he carried out the transaction.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators findings. He explained that he had sent information 
that proved he wasnt in Miami at the time of the transaction and Revolut couldnt sufficiently 
show that the transaction was made using chip and PIN. He maintained he didnt consent to 
the payment and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.Following the investigator issuing her opinion, Mr Ls other credit card provider sent us a 
copy of his statements. Our investigator let Mr L know that these statements showed 
numerous transactions taking place in Miami around the same time as the disputed 
transaction, therefore placing him in the vicinity of the transaction at the time. She asked Mr 
L for his comments on this, but he hasnt provided any.
Revolut also provided more clarification around how the transaction was authenticated. It 
originally said it was made using chip and PIN. However, it has now provided evidence to 
show the transaction was actually carried out by chip and signature. It pointed out this still 
means the genuine card was used, because the chip was read, but admitted the PIN wasnt 
entered. Our investigator let Mr L know that Revolut had provided evidence the transaction 
was carried out with a signature. Mr L said that unless Revolut could provide evidence that 
the signature matched his, then he maintained he didnt carry out the transaction. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions 
as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
In short, Revolut is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. 
The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). 
Mr L says he didnt carry out the transaction and is therefore seeking a refund. So, my 
primary concern is to come to a view about whether or I not I think Mr L authorised the 
transaction.
Having reviewed the transaction history, Im satisfied the transaction was carried out using 
the genuine card. The electronic records provided by Revolut confirm that the integrated 
circuit i.e. the chip, was read when the transaction took place. There is no consensus among 
banking experts, or scientists who have looked into this area, that cloning a chip on a card is 
possible. I also note that Mr L has said he hadnt used the card prior to the disputed 
transaction, so it seems there was no opportunity for cloning to take place anyway. Taking 
this into account, as well as the facts of the complaint itself, Im of the opinion it was Mr Ls 
genuine card used to carry out the transaction.
Revolut initially said the transaction was completed using a PIN. However, the evidence 
shows it was actually completed using a signature. Mr L says Revolut should be able to 
provide evidence that it was his signature used for the transaction and if it cant, then he 
maintains he didnt carry out the transaction. But despite what Mr L has said, Im persuaded 
by the evidence that on balance, he authorised the transaction. I will now explain why.
Mr L was still in possession of the card after the disputed transaction took place. Given Ive 
already concluded it was this genuine card that was used to carry out the transaction, Ive 
ruled out an unknown third party being responsible. I say this because it would mean they 
wouldve had to take and replace Mr Ls card without his knowledge. This doesnt seem 
likely at all. It would be extremely unusual for someone to steal a card and then go to the 
trouble of giving it back to its owner. As well as only carrying out one relatively low value 
transaction.
Having ruled out an unknown third party, Ive also considered whether it couldve been 
someone close to Mr L that carried out the transaction without his permission. Mr L was travelling with family and its possible they wouldve had easier access to his card and been 
able to take and replace it. And they wouldnt have needed to know the PIN, as only a 
signature was required for the transaction  something that is easier to copy. However, I 
dont believe this is the most likely explanation.
Mr L has maintained adamantly throughout his complaint that he didnt visit Miami on his trip 
to America. He provided evidence of a hotel booking made by a member of his family to 
show he was in Boston on the date of the disputed transaction and then went to Canada 
after this. However, our investigator obtained Mr Ls credit card statements, and these show 
numerous transactions in Miami between 7 and 12 August 2019, to restaurants and shops. 
These statements also show Mr L was in Boston prior to this and Canada after. Despite us 
asking, Mr L hasnt provided any explanation for the discrepancy between what he told us, 
and the evidence on his credit card statements.
Because of this, Im afraid it makes me doubt Mr Ls version of events and his statement that 
he didnt carry out the transaction. From the evidence Im satisfied Mr L and his card were 
both in Miami at the time of transaction, and his inconsistency and lack of explanation 
around this, suggests that on balance, he likely carried out the transaction. It therefore 
doesnt feel fair to ask Revolut to refund Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman