DRN-4242492
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his previous motor insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
because it duplicated a claim record which affected the renewal premium it offered, causing 
Mr S to take insurance elsewhere.
What happened
Mr S was involved in an accident in December 2022. Both he and the other driver recorded 
the incident with Admiral and an error on Admirals recording system didnt pick up that this 
was the same incident. So two separate claims were recorded. Mr S spotted the error and 
asked Admiral to change it. Admiral said it had done so.
The policy was due to renew in April 2023. Mr S noted the premium had increased 
significantly and that Admiral still had two claims recorded. He spoke to Admiral but it wasnt 
prepared to amend the premium, although it did amend the claim record, and Mr S found 
cover elsewhere. When Mr S took out the new cover, whilst it was less costly than Admirals 
renewal price, it was still significantly more expensive than his policy with Admiral had been 
the year before. Mr S felt Admirals action of incorrectly duplicating the claim and not 
amending that record had caused him financial loss, as well as inconvenience. Admiral said 
it would pay Mr S £75 compensation. Mr S remained unhappy so complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator explained to Mr S that as he had only declared one of the duplicated claims 
to his new insurer (correctly), it was unlikely the premium it had charged had been affected 
by Admirals error. But she accepted that had Admiral based its policy on the correct detail, 
Mr S likely wouldnt have sought cover elsewhere. She asked Admiral for detail about how 
the duplicated claim record had likely impacted its pricing of Mr Ss renewing policy. 
Admiral had its pricing team consider this issue. The information provided cant be shared in 
detail due the confidential nature of insurance pricing. But the pricing team were able to 
confirm that Mr S would likely have been charged over £500 less than he was at renewal if 
the correct claim data had been applied.
Our Investigator asked Mr S for detail of what hed paid for his new insurance. That was 
some £400 more than what Admiral had confirmed it would have charged. On balance she 
was satisfied that Mr S had only incurred that extra cost because of Admirals error  that 
hed otherwise have renewed with it, paying only the lower sum. She said Admiral should 
reimburse to Mr S £426.84 plus interest*. 
Admiral said it disagreed. It said it was unable to find where it had confirmed that Mr S would 
have been charged less. It said he always had the option to shop around at renewal and he 
had found a policy which gave a saving against the renewal figure it had charged. Admiral 
said it wasnt fair to directly compare its price to that of the other insurer as all insurers rate 
differently. It said as it had made mistakes with Mr Ss cover, it wasnt convinced he would 
have wanted to renew his cover with it anyway.
Our Investigator confirmed her view. When Admiral still didnt agree, Mr Ss complaint was 
referred for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral made two errors here. It duplicated a claim record and it failed to correct that. The 
incorrect record then impacted the premium offered at renewal because both claim records 
were taken into account when Admiral priced that cover. Mr S spotted the incorrect detail, 
causing him to call Admiral and ultimately find cover elsewhere. For the inconvenience of 
that I think the £75 paid by Admiral is fair and reasonable. But that doesnt account for any 
financial impact.
I think Mr S was frustrated in December 2022 when two claims were recorded. But Admiral 
assured Mr S it had amended that. Had it done so only one of those claims would have 
shown on Mr Ss renewal documents and Mr S would have had no reason to doubt the price 
he was offered. Admiral confirmed the price for cover was £1,863.74. And Admirals pricing 
team has presented data confirming that the renewal premium would likely have been 
£541.26 less if the correct claim data had been used. Which gives figure Mr S would likely 
have been charged to renew with Admiral of £1,322.48.
I know price was important for Mr S. When Admiral wouldnt amend his renewal premium, he 
found cover elsewhere at a sum of £1,749.32 where only one of the duplicated claims was 
declared. That was less than the incorrect premium Admiral had offered. But more than what 
the correct price would likely have been. I think that if Admiral had corrected things as 
promised in December 2022, Mr S wouldnt have looked to go elsewhere at renewal. But, 
even if he had, hed have found other policies more expensive anyway  as evidenced by 
the cover he took. Im satisfied that Mr S only had to pay £1,749.32 for cover with another 
insurer because of Admirals errors. 
So Admirals errors have caused Mr S a financial loss. Hes paid £1,749.32 as against what 
he would most likely have paid to remain with Admiral of £1,322.48 (had it avoided those 
errors). Thats a difference of £426.84. Admiral should reimburse this sum plus interest from 
9 April 2023, the date the policy should have renewed with Admiral, until settlement is made.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to pay Mr S £426.84 plus interest* from 9 April 2023, the date the policy 
should have renewed with Admiral, until settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Admiral to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman