DRN-4218876
The complaint
Miss G complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited avoided her car insurance policy 
and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
Miss G took out a car insurance policy with Haven through a price comparison site. When 
her car was stolen, she made a claim on her policy.
Haven said the car was financed by a third party (Ill refer to as Ms B) and therefore the 
finance company and Ms B were the owners of the car, not Miss G. It said Miss G incorrectly 
answered the questions it asked about who the registered keeper and owner of the car were. 
It considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it 
to cancel the policy, refute any claims and it didnt think it needed to return the premiums she 
had paid.
Miss G said Ms B is her sister-in-law and the car was given to her as a gift, so she had not 
thought to ask how the car was paid for. Miss G says as it was a gift, she was the owner of 
the car and had answered the questions asked correctly. She thinks Ms B is responsible for 
paying the finance company and Haven should pay the full settlement directly to her. 
However, Haven didnt change its decision to decline the claim.
Miss G brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. 
They said Miss G wasnt the vehicles owner or the finance holder, so she hadnt suffered a 
loss. Our investigator also said they didnt think Miss G had an insurable interest, therefore 
she couldnt make a claim on her policy.
Miss G doesnt agree with the investigator and says she didnt know the statements she 
made at inception were untrue. Miss G maintains that she was the registered keeper of the 
car as the V5 was in her name, and that she has suffered a loss as the sole user of the car 
she no longer has use of. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 June 2023 in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to a different 
outcome to our investigator. I intend to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Haven thinks Miss G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she said she was the registered keeper and owner of the car.
The comparison site through which Miss G applied for the policy asks:
Who is the registered keeper?
In its system notes Haven indicates that the V5 document for the car was updated on 31 
May 2022 and suggests Miss G may have updated the records after making the claim to 
make herself the registered keeper of the car, however its not provided any evidence to 
support this. As the only V5 information Ive seen shows the car as registered to Miss G, Im 
satisfied she was its registered keeper and answered that specific question correctly.
Ive then looked at what was asked regarding the legal owner of the car. The question on the 
comparison site says, who is the legal owner? The guidance information provided to help 
answer the question says, if ownership was transferred to you, as a gift, you will also be the 
legal owner.
The finance agreement Ive been provided for the car is in Ms Bs name. Our investigator 
phoned Ms B and she confirmed that she gave Miss G the car and Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest that wasnt the case. As such, Im satisfied the car was given to Miss G 
as a gift.
Miss G says she had not been told it was under a finance agreement, and she hadnt 
thought to ask how the car was paid for. Considering they both agree it was given as a gift, I 
dont think what she said is unreasonable. Given that the additional information on the 
comparison site also indicated that if ownership was transferred by way of a gift, the 
recipient becomes the legal owner, I dont think its unreasonable for Miss G to have 
assumed she was the legal owner of the car, especially as the only V5 document Ive seen 
shows the registration had been transferred to her. I think its likely any reasonable person 
would have made similar assumptions as Miss G did in the circumstances.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded Haven has shown Miss G failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when answering the questions she was asked when taking out 
the cover. So, I dont find its decision to avoid her insurance policy on this basis was fair or 
reasonable.
The terms and conditions say Haven will first discharge any sum owing on the hire purchase 
agreement and then settle the difference, if any, with the policyholder. Haven says, as Ms B 
pays the finance, she and the finance company are the owners of the car. It doesnt think 
Miss G has an insurable interest here, but I dont agree. Miss G also thinks she should be 
considered the innocent purchaser, but I dont think that applies here as she did not buy the 
car from Ms B.
Nevertheless, Ms B has confirmed that any settlement payment due, should be made to 
Miss G. Ive also carefully read the terms of the finance agreement and it indicates that 
ownership cant be transferred until the agreement is fulfilled. While I accept Ms B acted 
outside the terms of the finance agreement by giving the car away, I dont think Miss G can 
be held responsible for this.Although the finance company ultimately owns the car until the agreement is fulfilled and all 
the payments are made, the value of the car is likely to be more than the amount 
outstanding on the finance. Even though Ms B pays the finance, as Im satisfied the car was 
a gift, I think Miss G would have owned the car once the agreement was settled, so I think 
she would have been entitled to any value remaining once the agreement finished. As such, 
I find Miss G did have an insurable interest here and has suffered a loss.
In light of all this, I intend to tell Haven to consider the claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted what I said provisionally, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint and I require 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to consider the claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman