DRN-2492036
The complaint
Mr C complains that the vehicle he acquired on a hire purchase agreement financed by 
Advantage Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle or 
for the cost of repairs to be covered.  
What happened
Mr C tells us that he acquired the vehicle in November 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as R. 
He says that since then its required major repairs including replacement turbos being fitted in 
September 2019. He states that in June 2020 the vehicle again broke down and hes been 
advised it now needs a new engine. Mr C feels the latest breakdown is due to the earlier 
work on the turbos not being carried out correctly.
Advantage told us that the vehicle had been inspected on two occasions by a company Ill 
refer to as S. And that it had concluded that the issues with the vehicle were due to wear 
and tear.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
latest independent report by S had concluded that the issues werent as a result of the 
turbos being replaced. But were age related wear and tear issues.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I understand that Mr C would be naturally disappointed that this vehicle has proved to 
require costly repairs. Unfortunately, when high mileage, used vehicles are acquired that is 
one of the risks that are assumed, largely by the consumer. Here the vehicle was around 10 
years old with 100,000 or so miles when supplied to Mr C.
Mr C complains that from shortly after he acquired the vehicle its been experiencing various 
faults. And he believes it wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. So he feels he 
shouldnt be responsible for the latest repair costs of the replacement engine.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mr Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it.  Advantage supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA); and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA); 
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use and 
durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. After this its necessary for 
the consumer  if they claim that goods werent of satisfactory quality  to provide 
information that this was due to factors present at the point of supply.
Mr C has informed us that the vehicle experienced faults shortly after supply, with the engine 
management light illuminating and the TV in the headrests not working. These items were 
repaired. In June 2019  seven months after supply  further faults were reported which led 
to the vehicle being repaired and the turbos replaced. A report by S in September 2019 
concluded that these issues arose due to in-service wear and tear. In full and final settlement 
of that complaint, Mr C accepted a goodwill gesture from Advantage to assist with the costs 
of the repairs. So I cant look at those matters again.
Instead, Ill concentrate on whats happened since and particularly on the latest breakdown 
which occurred in June 2020. Although Mr C reports that the handbrake failed earlier, theres 
no information to show this was faulty at the point of supply. And given the vehicle passed 
an MOT in July 2019, I conclude that this issue must have arisen after this date.
After the latest breakdown, R diagnosed that a replacement engine would be required. The 
estimated cost was around £6,500. S again inspected the vehicle on 13 October 2020. The 
reported odometer reading at this time was 113,370 miles. It reported an unusual audible 
engine knock  which it found was probably due to big end bearings or crankshaft issues. It 
said there was no plausible evidence to show the current issues were linked to the previous 
turbocharger replacement. And it confirmed that the issues werent present during the 
previous inspection. I infer this must be correct as the vehicle has since done a further 5,000 
miles which almost certainly wouldnt have been possible had such a serious fault been 
present.
S concluded that the latest symptoms had developed after the point of supply and after the 
previous inspection. And I find that this is a reasonable conclusion based on the available 
information.
In the absence of any information to the contrary, I find its more probable than not that the 
vehicle is simply experiencing wear and tear issues. Its usually impossible to know precisely 
when such factors will arise and I accept that its Mr C misfortune that they occurred rather 
sooner than might have been the case. 
But as theres insufficient information to show that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply, Im unable to require Advantage to do anything to assist with the cost of 
repairs. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman