DRN-3804432
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained about a lack of help and support from Lloyds Bank PLC now 
that their interest-only mortgage has come to the end of its term. To settle the complaint 
Mr and Mrs K would like a five-year term extension.
Mr and Mrs K have also complained that Lloyds has failed to provide them with an audit of 
their mortgage account, and they want the bank to carry out an audit and provide them with 
this.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have a mortgage taken out with Lloyds residential lending division, 
Cheltenham & Gloucester, in 1998. The mortgage was on an interest-only basis. Over the 
years, the mortgage has been re-arranged onto different products, and with further advances 
taken out, and switched from interest-only to capital repayment and back again several 
times. The last mortgage product taken out was in August 2008 when Mr and Mrs K 
arranged the mortgage of £123,555 over a term of 14 years on an interest-only basis.
On 8 June 2009 Mr and Mrs K switched the mortgage to capital repayment, but switched it 
back again to interest-only on 12 November 2010. Quotes were given to Mr and Mrs K on 
24 June 2011 and 24 August 2011 for converting back to capital repayment, but those 
changes were not implemented.
The mortgage term came to an end in September 2022. Mr and Mrs K say that, due to losing 
money on the stock market, they have no way of repaying the mortgage, which has an 
outstanding balance of about £78,000.
In December 2021 Mr and Mrs K requested a term extension on the mortgage. However, 
Lloyds declined this because Mr and Mrs K are now living abroad and the property is rented 
out. Although Mrs K initially suggested that this was temporary, she also confirmed that Mr K 
was employed on a permanent contract in that country and intended to continue working in 
that capacity until he is at least 65 (so another 12 years). Mrs K said that the tenant is a 
friend who they are helping out, but also said that the tenancy was for 12 months.
Lloyds explained that it was outside policy to have an unauthorised tenant in the property, so 
before the bank could consider any options such as a term extension on a capital repayment 
basis, it would be necessary for the tenant to vacate. Mr and Mrs K would also need to 
transfer funds to the UK each month and provide evidence of this before Lloyds could 
consider a new repayment mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs K complained to Lloyds about the lack of support theyd been given.  Lloyds 
didnt uphold the complaint, saying that it wasnt possible to extend the term because 
Mr and Mrs K no longer lived in the UK and they are renting out the property. 
Mr and Mrs K complained to us on 21 March 2022. In addition to their complaint about 
Lloyds refusing to extend the mortgage term, Mr and Mrs K said that Lloyds had refused to 
switch the mortgage back to capital repayment and that if this had been a repayment 
mortgage, theyd have paid it off by now.
Mr and Mrs K also complained about the mortgage being switched to interest-only in 
November 2010. On 12 October 2022 I issued a decision explaining why this part of the 
complaint falls outside the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Provisional decision of 13 October 2022
I issued a provisional decision, in which I made the following findings.
Switch to capital repayment: Ive set out above the changes to the mortgage after 
the latest product was taken out in August 2008. Although Mr and Mrs K requested 
quotes for switching the mortgage to capital repayment in June and August 2011, 
there is no record of Mr and Mrs K going ahead with this. The mortgage remained on 
interest-only, as detailed in the annual mortgage statements. There has been no 
error by Lloyds in this respect.
Term extension: The starting point here is that the interest-only mortgage 
agreement entered into in August 2008 by Mr and Mrs K provides for the balance to 
be repaid in September 2022. That date has now passed and the balance is 
outstanding.
Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs K have said about their circumstances. Although 
Mrs K has suggested that the move abroad is temporary, the fact Mr K is in 
permanent employment and intends to remain in his employment for at least another 
12 years doesnt persuade me that this is only a temporary move.
Mr and Mrs K say that renting out the property depends on the outcome of this 
complaint, as their sons are intending to return to the UK permanently. Mr and Mrs K 
also say they are going to be travelling back and forth between their home country 
and the UK more than they have done in the past. Because of this, they say they 
might want to keep the property for their own use.
Lloyds has said it is willing to consider refinancing the mortgage onto a capital 
repayment basis, if the tenant vacates and if Mr and Mrs K are able to provide 
evidence of funds being transferred to the UK every month to cover the mortgage 
repayments. I think this is reasonable; this is a residential mortgage and it is outside 
Lloyds lending criteria to offer any kind of term extension on a property that is subject 
to an unauthorised tenancy or that is not intended to be a permanent residence for 
Mr and Mrs K. 
Lloyds is entitled to set its own lending criteria, and so I dont have any power to tell 
the bank to waive or disregard these, or make an exception to its lending policies. In 
the circumstances, Im not persuaded there is any basis on which I can find Lloyds 
has acted unfairly in declining the request for a term extension, given the current 
circumstances.
Account audit: Mr and Mrs K say that, despite their requests, Lloyds has failed to 
provide them with an audit of their mortgage account, and they want the bank to do 
this.
Lloyds isnt under any obligation to audit customer accounts. The annual mortgage 
statements provide the transaction history for the account. Mr and Mrs K agree 
theyve received the annual mortgage statements and so they ought to be aware of payments demanded, payments made, the interest rate, the type of mortgage and 
the remaining term, as this is information thats all set out in the annual statements.
If Mr and Mrs K want their mortgage account audited, they are, of course, free to 
arrange this themselves, at their own expense. If they do so, and if the audit was to 
show any errors that could be attributed to Lloyds resulting in financial detriment, 
Mr and Mrs K would be free to raise a fresh complaint about this, and include the 
cost of the audit in any redress claimed. 
However, Im not going to order Lloyds to audit Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage account, as 
this isnt something Lloyds is required to do.
Responses to the provisional decision
Lloyds agreed with my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs K made detailed submissions, the 
majority of which related to the issues covered in my jurisdiction decision. Because Ive 
already decided that this service has no jurisdiction to look at those issues, I wont comment 
on that part of the complaint any further, as I have no legal power to do so. 
In relation to the term extension, Mr and Mrs K said that Mr K has now been offered a job in 
the UK and that they intend to return in the New Year, moving back into the mortgaged 
property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see no basis to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional 
decision. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs K didnt proceed with a switch to capital repayment in 2011 
after Lloyds gave them quotes of how much the monthly repayments would be. This is an 
interest-only mortgage, the term of which expired in September 2022.
I reiterate that neither Lloyds nor this service is required to audit the account. Its open to 
Mr and Mrs K to have their own audit carried out at their expense should they wish to do so, 
as explained above.
In relation to the term extension, the mortgage term has now expired and the outstanding 
balance is due for immediate repayment. Ive noted what Mr and Mrs K have said about their 
future plans and their change in circumstances. However, because the mortgage term has 
now come to an end, Mr and Mrs K will need to make an application to Lloyds for a new 
mortgage and pass the banks lending criteria before Lloyds would be able to offer them a 
new mortgage. 
I would suggest Mr and Mrs K liaise with Lloyds about this, providing evidence of Mr Ks new 
job and salary, so that the bank can ascertain if it would be possible to offer them a new 
mortgage. This would, of course, be a matter for the banks commercial judgment, subject to 
Mr and Mrs K meeting its lending criteria.  
It might also help Mr and Mrs K to speak to an independent financial adviser; if Lloyds isnt 
able to help them, Mr and Mrs K will need an alternative method of repaying the mortgage, 
and a financial adviser will be able to search the market for other lenders who might be able to help them. Mr and Mrs K can find details of financial advisers from the Financial Conduct 
Authority website.
However, Im satisfied that Lloyds isnt under any obligation to extend the mortgage term, 
and so Im unable to find that the bank has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman