DRN-2796520
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that Openwork Limited mis-sold their life and critical illness 
policies. They say the advisor told Mr D not to declare his full medical history. They would 
like the premiums refunded and an apology. 
Mr D has mainly dealt with this complaint, so Ill refer to him throughout the decision. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he wasnt satisfied 
there was enough evidence to show that Openwork had advised Mr D to not fully declare his 
medical history when the policies began in November 2019. He said Mr D had an 
opportunity to provide his medical history either to the advisor or to the insurer but failed to 
do so. 
Mr D disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said because of the advice 
he received, the policies werent suitable. He said he wanted water tight policies after he 
became ill in early 2020 and because of the Covid-19 pandemic created issues for his work. 
So, he wanted his insurer to have his full medical records so any potential future claim 
wouldnt be rejected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator. I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Mr D. In doing so, Ive looked at and considered all the evidence he 
and Openwork have provided to us  and Id like to assure him that if I dont mention a 
particular point, its not because I havent considered it, instead Ive focused on whats 
important to the outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr D has said he was told by Openwork not to declare his full medical records when 
applying for his policies. Ive considered this carefully, and Im not persuaded  on balance  
thats what happened here. 
The first meeting Mr D had with Openwork was in February 2019 and he was sent quotes 
and policy information which he confirmed he received. A further meeting took place in 
November 2019 and the policies started. I note that the insurer sent Mr D various documents 
confirming the policies had started but no further contact was made with the insurer about 
any of the information being incorrect or incomplete. Im satisfied Mr D reviewed the 
application because he queried the occupation that had been put on the form in 
December 2019. And from the evidence Ive seen, it was a couple of months later when 
Mr D tried to contact Openwork or his insurer about his medical records. 
I note the insurer was clear in its communication with Mr D that he must let it know if there 
were any amendments to the information he had provided when he applied for the policies. 
After considering the evidence, Im satisfied  its more likely than not - that he was happy to 
take out the policies in November 2019. But after he became ill in 2020, and the affect the 
Covid-19 pandemic had had on his occupations, he wasnt happy with how many, and how 
often, the premiums were being taken from his account. Openwork has also provided notes 
from a call it had with the insurer. These confirm that Mr D did call the insurer in June 2020, 
but only his monthly payments were discussed. And Ive listened to a voicemail from Mr D to 
Openwork querying the regularity of the premiums being taken from his account. 
Mr D said he wouldnt have been covered by his insurer if he ever needed to claim due to 
the advice he received from Openwork. And that he wanted water tight policies. Im afraid 
Im unable to confirm whether he wouldnt have been covered by his insurer based upon the 
evidence Ive seen. Only the insurer could review his medical details and decide what action 
it wouldve taken. 
I think its worth explaining that its not always possible to get water tight policies which will 
cover Mr D in every eventuality. All policies have terms and conditions with different levels of 
cover and definitions. I do understand hes said he wanted to provide a full disclosure of his 
medical history. But I cant see enough persuasive evidence to show the reason this 
information wasnt supplied during his application was the fault of Openwork. 
Mr D has said his policies were mis-sold by Openwork, so Ive considered the advice he was 
given here in relation to the level of cover and the suitability of the recommendation. Theres 
a degree of subjective judgment when an adviser makes a recommendation. Different 
advisers can reasonably make different recommendations when considering a customers 
demands and needs. Its not my role to substitute the advisers recommendation for what I 
may consider to be a slightly more suitable recommendation. So, with this in mind, Id have 
to be persuaded that the advisers recommendation was wholly unsuitable for Mr D to decide 
the policies had been mis-sold. Having looked at everything, Im not persuaded this is the 
case. 
Ive reviewed all the notes on Openworks systems which include the reasons why the 
policies were recommended. Within these notes Openwork confirmed that Mr Ds BMI was 
discussed, and the policies were rated by the insurer which meant it was more expensive 
than standard ones. I also havent seen any evidence that the advice for him or his wife to 
take out life and critical Illness policies was unsuitable. Mr D confirmed what his budget was, 
why he wanted the sum assured to stay the same and that he didnt have any other 
protection policies in place. So, currently, I havent seen any persuasive evidence that the 
policies Openwork sold were unsuitable at the time. 
So, Im not going to ask Openwork to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Mark DobsonOmbudsman