DRN-2657126
The complaint
Mr N complains NCO Europe Limited are harassing and intimidating him into repaying debts 
for two accounts that are unenforceable.
The debts are owned by another company, but as Mr Ns concerns relate to NCO Ive mainly 
referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr N says since 2005 another company that supports people with their debts have been 
receiving a monthly payment from him  and paying this out to his different creditors. Ill call 
this company P. 
In April 2020 Mr N says he discovered serious concerns about P and the advice theyve 
been giving him  as hed told them he thought the accounts were unenforceable, but theyd 
told him to keep paying his debts. Because of this he sought advice from other companies 
and was told his accounts had been unenforceable since early 2008 at least  meaning NCO 
cant ask for repayment of the debts. The advice Mr N received from two different sources 
was that he should ask for a copy of his original Consumer Credit Act (CCA) agreement. And 
he understood because of the age of the accounts NCO wouldnt have the agreements, 
meaning the account isnt enforceable. Mr N says hes made requests for the CCA and 
understands if its not supplied within 12 working days from the first request the accounts are 
now unenforceable. Mr N says despite this, hes been receiving demanding letters and 
phone calls from NCO several times a week to make payment. Mr N added this harassment 
and intimidation by NCO is seriously affecting his and his wifes health.
NCO said theyd been managing the accounts on behalf of the owners since October 2012 
for one account, and February 2013 for the second account. They explained Mr N had been 
in touch on 14 October 2020 to ask for the CCA. They said sorry but they were still trying to 
get it  and they upheld this part of Mr Ns complaint as they said theyd not properly kept 
him up to date. But, they didnt agree theyd harassed Mr N  as they couldnt see any 
contact except when theyd replied to him after he got in touch.
Mr N also received a letter from the owner of the account, to say theyd marked it as 
unenforceable, on 31 October 2020.
As Mr N wasnt happy with NCOs reply to his complaint, he asked us to look into things. 
One of our investigators did so. He explained whether the debt is enforceable or not isnt 
something for us to decide, thats something for the courts to consider. He said what he 
could look at was whether NCO were acting fairly and reasonably in asking Mr N to repay 
the debts. And, having considered everything, he thought NCO were because they hadnt 
misled Mr N into thinking the debts were enforceable, when they werent. Our investigator 
also didnt think NCOs contacts with Mr N amounted to harassment. So, he didnt uphold 
their complaint.
Mr N didnt agree with this. He set out his concerns in a phone call with our investigator 
which Ive listened to, and subsequent written response which Ive read. Ive summarised the 
key points in my own words below:
Mr N raised concerns about the agreements with P but were told to keep making 
payments.
Mr N also said he was being harassed because hed received nine calls from a 
number which hed traced to NCO. But when he called the number back it didnt 
connect. 
Our investigator did ask Mr N if he had any evidence about these phone calls, but he said he 
didnt have any evidence he could send in to us when asked on the phone  and he later 
confirmed that in writing. Our investigator explained NCO have provided their contact notes 
 but these notes didnt reflect the calls Mr N said hed received. As Mr N wasnt happy with 
the outcome, our investigator made it clear Mr N should send in any further evidence hed 
like considered, which he did. Ive now been passed his case to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain Im only considering a complaint against NCO, rather than P. 
And, in deciding whether NCO have acted fairly and reasonably, I need to consider what 
they knew, and when, to decide this.
Mr N has made it clear the only reason the payments were still made towards this debt, is 
because he was advised to by P. But, as I understand his complaint, hes concerned about 
NCO harassing him to repay a debt he says is unenforceable.
From the information I have  which includes Mr Ns explanation of events  NCO werent 
contacted to ask for a copy of the CCA until October 2020. At this point, NCO said they 
needed to pass this to the owner of the accounts and would provide it when they can. I 
understand since then, the owner of the account has said theyre unenforceable in a letter 
dated 31 October 2020, so they wont be contacting Mr N again.
Looking at NCOs contact notes, it seems theyve only contacted Mr N for two reasons. The 
first was to explain they were offering Mr N a reduction in the amount of his debt if he paid it 
off in a lump sum. Ive got copies of letters from 2015 onwards  and it seems there were 
usually at least three months between letters. I dont think I can reasonably say these were 
harassing or intimidating  on the basis they were infrequent and were offering Mr N an 
opportunity to repay less of his debt. I also cant see theyve contacted him after 
31 October 2020 regarding this.
The only other contacts I can see are NCO replying to Mr Ns contact with them. Ive looked 
at all the evidence Ive been provided with, and not seen any concerns regarding these 
contacts either. 
Mr N has mentioned receiving phone calls from NCO, and said they started within a very 
short period of him getting in touch with them. But hes not been able to provide any 
evidence of this when asked. I understand Mr Ns suspicions  but, NCOs evidence doesnt 
show the calls hes mentioned, and he cant provide anything to prove this has happened. In 
the absence of evidence to show otherwise, I cant reasonably say theyve treated him 
unfairly.Taking everything into account then, I cant see that NCO have harassed or intimidated Mr N 
regarding a debt they knew was unenforceable. The account wasnt marked as 
unenforceable until 31 October 2020  and although I understand Mr N had raised these 
issues before, this was with P, not NCO. Once hed told NCO, it seems like theyve taken the 
appropriate action  so I cant say theyve acted incorrectly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman