DRN-3723116
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) handled a 
claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
On 18 February 2022, Mr Rs car was damaged when a large part of a tree detached itself 
and struck his car while he was driving. 
UKI arranged for a repair to be completed and informed Mr R, they would report a fault claim 
to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). They said this was necessary as while    
Mr R wasnt to blame for the incident, they couldnt recover their claim outlay. The tree 
branch became detached while Mr R was travelling abroad during Storm Eunice, so they 
concluded they wouldnt be able to pursue any recovery action. 
Mr R didnt think UKI had treated him fairly. He said he hadnt done anything wrong, and he 
was being penalised over an accident that wasnt his fault. He also asked why UKI hadnt 
been able to recover their costs from their catastrophic reinsurance policy, as the accident 
had been caused by a storm.
UKIs position remained the same in their final response, other than explaining that their 
reinsurance policy didnt change things, and they'd followed good industry practice by 
recording the claim in the way that they did.
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint. He didnt think UKI had acted 
unfairly. In summary, he said insurers record a fault claim when they are unable to recover 
their costs. As there is no dispute that the damage was caused by a storm, this meant there 
was no third party they could reasonably recover the full claim outlay from. He also 
explained that UKIs reinsurance policy is designed to help them stay solvent, if they receive 
a significant number of high value claims following a catastrophe. It therefore doesnt impact 
Mr Rs specific claim or the way it was recorded. He also explained that insurers take 
previous claim settlements into consideration when determining risk. 
Mr R then requested a final decision. He said the investigator had focussed on his concern 
about UKIs reinsurance policy and that point was largely irrelevant. He said he had three 
key reasons for concluding hed been treated unfairly. Ive therefore summarised them as 
follows:
He thinks a fault claim should be considered and recorded on a case by case basis 
instead of in every instance where an insurer cant recover their claim costs. He also 
feels it would be unreasonable for an insurer to take his specific claim into 
consideration when determining risk given the circumstances. 
He paid to protect his no claims discount. So, he shouldnt be disadvantaged and  
made to pay twice, due to the fact UKI havent been able to recover their claim costs 
from a third party.
UKI included misleading information in their final response to detract from the 
significant financial implications of their decision to report a fault claim. He was 
especially concerned that UKI decided to refer to  insurance jargon.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs response, but his opinion remained the same. He didnt 
think the wording in the final response was inappropriate and said it was unlikely it had been 
written to intentionally cause confusion or upset.
He also said he understood why Mr R believes the insurance industry should change the 
way they record claims of this nature and why it could cause confusion. However, as UKI 
hadnt been able to recover their outlay, they'd acted fairly by following the industry wide 
approach and reporting a fault claim. He also highlighted the fact our service isnt a regulator 
and said our role is to consider individual complaints. 
Ive therefore considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the policy, UKI can independently decide whether to defend a 
claim or settle it. This might mean UKI makes a decision that Mr R, disagrees with, 
as has happened here. I dont find this unusual or surprising as most motor insurance 
policies allow insurers to consider claims in this way. That said, we expect an insurer 
to reasonably investigate a claim and consider all the available evidence.
Based on the circumstances, Im satisfied UKI acted reasonably by concluding they 
couldnt recover their full claim outlay. There appears to be no dispute that the 
damage to Mr Rs car was caused due to storm conditions, so even if UKI were able 
to locate the owner of the tree, its unlikely they could pursue a successful claim 
against them. Mr R has said his initial point about UKIs catastrophic reinsurance 
policy is largely irrelevant, so I wont dwell on it here. Other than to say, based on 
everything Ive considered, Im satisfied it doesnt impact the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Insurers record claims where they havent been able to recover their claim outlay in 
full as fault claims. As that reflects the circumstances here, Im satisfied UKI have 
acted fairly by recording Mr Rs claim in the way that they have. Ive considered      
Mr Rs argument that all claims of a similar nature shouldnt automatically be 
recorded in the same way. However, insurers do consider claims individually and I 
think applying a consistent industry wide approach means everyone is treated fairly. 
In any event, Im satisfied none of the specific circumstances surrounding Mr Rs 
claim suggests UKI should reasonably have acted any differently. 
I appreciate Mr Rs concern that the fault claim may result in an unfair premium 
increase. However, insurers are entitled to take previous claims into consideration 
when assessing risk, regardless of blame. Every insurer assesses risk slightly 
differently and this commercial judgment isnt something we generally interfere with. 
That said, the definition of a fault claim is widely known throughout the motor 
insurance industry and therefore considered when determining risk. 
Mr Rs decision to protect his no claims discount doesnt change things here. I 
appreciate he feels hes been financially impacted twice, but I wouldnt expect UKI to 
take his no claims discount into consideration when determining fault. As mentioned above, the key consideration is whether they have recovered their full claim outlay.
Im satisfied UKIs final response was written in the manner Id reasonably expect. I 
appreciate Mr R found the tone of the letter and the use of the term insurance 
jargon unhelpful, but I dont agree it was intentionally patronising or misleading. The 
letter was written in an informal yet professional manner and was not dissimilar to the 
style and tone frequently used by this service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman