DRN-3371625
The complaint
Mr B complains the AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) unfairly 
cancelled his car insurance policy for non-payment of premium following non-disclosure of 
an accident. Mr B is also unhappy he was unknowingly left without car insurance for a period 
of six days. 
Any references to AAUICL includes its agents
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 11 February 2022. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I wasnt mind to uphold it were set 
out in that decision. A copy is below and it forms part of this final decision. 
On 10 January 2021 Mr B received notification his car insurance was due for automatic renewal on 10 
February 2021. 
On 3 February 2021 another driver drove into the back of Mr Bs car. Mr B says he contacted AAUICL 
to report the accident on the same day. In a subsequent phone call Mr B contacted AAUICL to renew 
his car insurance.
On 8 February 2021 AAUICL wrote to Mr B to say he owed a further £19 for changes to the policy. 
The letter gave Mr B 14 days to pay the additional premium. Mr B says he thought the letter related to 
an excess for the accident and his intention was to contact AAUICL to query it. However Mr B says 
since he was going back to work following pandemic restrictions being lifted it slipped his mind. 
On 2 March 2021 AAUICL wrote to Mr B to say the additional premium was still outstanding. AAUICL 
gave Mr B until 18 March 2021 to pay it. 
On 26 March 2021 AAUICL wrote to Mr B to say the premium was still outstanding and if payment 
wasnt received his insurance policy would be cancelled on 9 April 2021. Mr B says he didnt receive 
the email. 
On 15 April 2021 AAUICL sent an email and letter to Mr B confirming the policy had been cancelled 
and the insurance premium Mr B had paid had been refunded. Mr B says he did not see the email 
until 16 April and contacted AAUICL on the morning of 17 April 2021 to ask why the policy had been 
cancelled. 
Mr B says AAUICL cancelled his car insurance due to a failure to disclose a non-fault accident. Mr B 
says he told the agent he had disclosed the accident to AAUICL on the day it happened. He says he 
explained he had also discussed his upcoming renewal, negotiated a price, and paid for the policy 
during the same call.  
Mr B says he was not told his insurance might be cancelled when AAUICL requested further payment 
of £19. Mr B says had he been aware he would have acted sooner. Mr B is also unhappy his 
insurance was cancelled on 9th of the month but he was not told until 15th by email. This meant he 
was unknowingly driving without insurance for six days.
Mr B complained to AAUICL who did not uphold the complaint. It said it had contacted Mr B on 
numerous occasions asking for payment of the additional premium and sent Mr B new insurance 
documents for checking. Since it received no response or payment it cancelled the policy as it is 
entitled to do under the terms and conditions.  
Mr B referred the complaint to our service. The investigator upheld his complaint. She said she didnt 
think it was fair for Mr Bs policy to be cancelled due to non-payment for non-disclosure. She said Mr 
B had disclosed the claim before renewing his policy. She thought the questions asked at renewal 
werent clear or specific enough. AAUICL disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Disclosure of non-fault accident 
Mr B made two calls to AAUICL on 3 February 2021. The first was to report the non-fault accident. I 
have listened to the call. Mr B tells the operative someone drove into the back of his car but there was 
little or no damage. Mr B says he thought it was best to report the incident anyway. The operative 
takes the details and explains someone will come out to inspect Mr Bs car just in case there is 
damage which cant be seen. While there is no discussion regarding the renewal Im satisfied the 
incident was disclosed correctly and there was no intention on Mr Bs part to mislead the insurer. 
Mr B called AAUICL again that day, but this time to renew his policy. I have listened to the call. Mr B 
successfully negotiates a cheaper price than the renewal quote for his policy and when the agent 
asks if there are any changes to his circumstances Mr B confirms his change of address. Whilst Mr B 
doesnt mention the accident during this call I think its reasonable for Mr B to take the view AAUICL 
was already aware of the accident since he had already reported it that day. I understand AAUICL 
have said their systems dont update that quickly but I dont think Mr B can be expected to be aware 
of this. 
Cancellation of policy
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy allow AAUICL to cancel the policy in certain situations. One 
of the examples given is non-payment. The terms go on to say AAUICL will send, at least 7 days 
written notice to last known address 
AAUICL wrote to Mr B on 8 February 2021 and 2 March 2021 regarding the additional premium. The 
letters ask for payment and provides a deadline for Mr B. AAUICL didnt hear from Mr B in response 
to these letters. The letters were sent by post and by email. 
AAUICL sent a further letter dated 26 March 2021 which confirms if the premium is not paid then the 
policy will be cancelled on 9 April 2021. Mr B says he did not receive the email which is why he didnt 
act on it. Given AAUICL had previously communicated with Mr B by email, and his preferred method 
of contact was by email, I think its reasonable for AAUICL to send the correspondence by email and 
to assume it had been delivered. AAUICL has said it did not receive a delivery failure notification. 
I have considered whether Mr B was given reasonable opportunity to pay the premium and I think he 
was. AAUICL sent three letters chasing the outstanding premium; each of them providing a new 
deadline by which to make payment. I accept Mr B was going back to work following easing of 
restrictions but I dont think this accounts for not responding to all of the letters. 
I have seen a copy of the letter dated 26 March 2021 and a screenshot confirming the letter was sent 
by post to Mr Bs address. And so AAUICL did what it was supposed to do under the terms of the 
policy to let him know. I appreciate Mr B says he didnt receive the final letter. However, as AAUICL 
did what it was supposed to under the policy I dont think AAUICL did anything wrong. 
AAUICL sent three letters, by email and post telling Mr B there was an issue and that he needed to 
take action. The last letter set out the consequences of doing nothing. I think Mr B was given 
opportunity to pay the premium or get in contact with the insurer to query the request. On this basis I think AAUICL has acted reasonably by cancelling the policy, given the lack of communication from Mr 
B.
Unknowingly driving without insurance 
The letter dated 26 March 2021 says if we dont receive your payment, then your cover will end at 
00.01am on 9 April 2021. Your certificate of insurance will no longer be valid after this time  
In the email dated 15 April 2021 it says that the policy was cancelled on 9 April and a refund was 
credited to Mr B. So I can understand Mr Bs concern that he was unknowingly left without insurance 
for a period of time. 
In their letter dated 15 April 2021 AAUICL confirm the policy has been cancelled. I have seen a copy 
of the letter which says the policy was cancelled with effect from 15 April. 
I appreciate there was some confusion about the date of cancellation and that this caused Mr B some 
concern about his insurance position. But I am satisfied AAUICL gave fair warning of a potential 
problem and gave sufficient notice of the cancellation. 
I am aware that my findings are different to those of the investigator which is the reason for the 
provisional decision. I think the crux of the issue here is that the policy was cancelled due to non-
payment of the premium. Mr B has accepted that he did see the request for payment and did not act 
on it. And I appreciate the cancellation of the policy has had a significant impact on him. But I have 
seen evidence that AAUICL sent the letters by post and email, including the letter warning the policy 
could be cancelled. So I cant say AAUICL did anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly in cancelling 
the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked both parties to send my any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider.  AAUICL didnt send me anything further. In response to my findings Mr B 
submitted some further documents and submissions  which I have considered carefully 
before making my final decision. He has also made some observations which I have thought 
about before reaching a conclusion. None of this evidence changes my thinking about his 
complaint. 
I have seen no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision not to uphold 
the complaint. I understand Mr B thinks his complaint should be upheld because he 
disclosed the accident prior to renewing his policy, and that AAUICL didnt tell him that it 
would cancel his policy if he didnt pay the additional premium. In deciding Mr Bs complaint 
Ive sought to understand whether AAUICL acted fairly and reasonably in their dealing with 
Mr B. I have reviewed the information provided to me by Mr B but I still conclude AAUICL 
didnt do anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly in cancelling the policy.  
My final decision
Accordingly for the reasons set out in my provision decision, detailed above, my final 
decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Kiran ClairOmbudsman