DRN-2322422
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way Aviva Health UK Limited has administered their 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a Healthier Solutions private medical insurance policy. The policy year 
began on 5 May 2019 and was due to expire on 4 May 2020. The policy provided Mr and 
Mrs M with a range of benefits.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all non-
essential travel and social contact. On 21 March 2020, due to the large numbers of patients 
suffering from Covid-19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide 
support to the NHS. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was imposed by the UK 
government. Aviva set out information about the situation on its website and provided its 
policyholders with details of benefits which were still available to them.
Mr M got in touch with Aviva on 24 March 2020 because he was unhappy that private 
facilities were going to be used by the NHS. He felt that Aviva shouldve told him what steps 
it was taking and he didnt want to pay for a policy which he couldnt use. Aviva gave Mr and 
Mrs M the option to defer the payment of their premiums for three months. Mr M took up this 
option. Mr M was told that hed need to repay any outstanding premiums so that the cover 
could continue and any eligible claims could be paid.
Subsequently, Mr M got back in touch with Aviva in May 2020. During the conversation, he 
told it that hed been financially impacted by Covid-19, but Aviva didnt probe this any further. 
It maintained that Mr and Mrs M would need to pay their deferred premiums for the cover to 
remain in force. 
Unhappy with the way Aviva had administered their policy, Mr and Mrs M asked us to look 
into their complaint. They didnt feel they should be charged for missed payments during the 
pandemic. And Mr M explained that his employment and income had been affected by 
Covid-19.
Aviva said that it had offered premium deferrals due to Covid-19 in line with the regulators 
guidance and it had also decided to offer discounts or premium waivers in some 
circumstances. It told us that if a policyholder told it that theyd been financially affected by 
Covid-19, it would carry out a fact-finding call with them and offer them one of these options, 
depending on their circumstances. It said that Mr M hadnt indicated in March 2020 that hed 
been financially affected by Covid-19, but it acknowledged that it shouldve picked this up 
when it spoke with him in May. So it offered to carry out a fact-finding call with Mr M to try 
and resolve his complaint. However, Mr M declined this option. And he cancelled his policy 
with effect from 5 April 2020.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
given the number of Avivas policyholders; itd been reasonable for it to update them via its 
website. She was persuaded that Aviva had likely sent a letter to Mr and Mrs M which set 
out the benefits which were still available to them. And she thought that Aviva had followed 
the regulators guidance which said that insurers should offer premium deferrals for 
policyholders who asked for them. She thought Aviva had been entitled to tell Mr and Mrs M 
that their premiums would need to be repaid. In any event though, as the last premium 
theyd paid prior to cancelling the policy was on 5 March 2020, she didnt think theyd 
suffered any financial loss.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. Mr M said he hadnt been able to access the online GP service 
due to a technical fault, but even after reporting the issue, it had persisted. He felt theyd 
been treated unfairly. He considered it was a farce to be paying deferred premiums when all 
of the private resources were available to the nation. He queried why he should make-up 
missed payments when he hadnt been able to access treatment and asked what the point of 
private healthcare was.
Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs M for more information about the technical issue Mr M 
experienced so that she could look into this. Shed noticed that Mr M had told Aviva about an 
issue with the online service on 24 March 2020, but she couldnt see any follow-up. 
However, Mr M asked for the complaint to be passed to a senior colleague. He said he didnt 
have any recorded information about the faults.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I think Aviva has treated them 
fairly. Ill explain why.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of their contract 
with Aviva as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
I think there are two key issues for me to decide. Did Aviva have a duty to contact Mr and 
Mrs M to update them about its services following the decision of the UK government to 
requisition many private facilities on 21 March 2020? And was it entitled to continue to 
charge them a monthly premium for their policy?
Did Aviva owe Mr and Mrs M a duty to tell them about the impact of Covid-19 on its 
services?
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of their customers
On 21 March 2020, the government decided to requisition private hospitals so that large 
numbers of Covid-19 patients could receive treatment. So Aviva provided a question and 
answer document on its website. This set out the services which remained open to 
policyholders and explained the impact of Covid-19 on claims and cover. It also explained 
that policyholders would still need to pay their premiums. But it provided a number for 
policyholders who were in financial difficulties, because of Covid-19, to contact. The 
document stated that it would be continually updated as the situation progressed.I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel Aviva had a duty to get in touch with its policyholders to let 
them know about the situation. I dont think this is a reasonable expectation though. I say 
that because Aviva has many policyholders and it would be unreasonable for me to find that 
it shouldve or indeed, couldve, contacted each of them to let them know about the situation. 
I also think that given the fast-moving developments in the response to Covid-19, it wouldve 
been impractical, if not impossible, to expect Aviva to get in touch with individual 
policyholders to discuss the impact on their specific circumstances.
In my view, using a website - which was available to the majority of its policyholders - to 
publish information about the impact of Covid-19 on its services and explaining what it could 
still offer its customers was a reasonable and sensible approach for Aviva to take. Mr and 
Mrs M were given a link to this document on 25 March 2020. And Aviva followed this up with 
a letter to its policyholders which explained the provisions which were still open to them. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Aviva had a duty to contact Mr and Mrs M 
personally in March 2020 and I think it provided them with reasonable information via its 
website and in the letter which followed.
Was Aviva entitled to continue to charge Mr and Mrs M a deferred premium?
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy say their plan is for one year, and that 
premiums must be paid for Aviva to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are 
intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. 
An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that 
time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. Aviva provided cover 
under Mr and Mrs Ms private medical insurance policy from May 2019 to 5 April 2020. It isnt 
clear whether Mr and Mrs M did make any successful claims during that time, but Aviva is 
entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of them making a claim during the 
policy year. 
However, the industry regulator acknowledged that the pandemic may impact on 
policyholders financial situations. So it issued guidance over the following months which set 
out some of the options insurers could offer their customers to assist them. One of these 
options was a payment holiday. Aviva offered Mr and Mrs M a three-month deferred 
payment holiday in March 2020, which Mr and Mrs M took up. And Im satisfied that Mr M 
understood these premium payments would need to be repaid in full. This means I think 
Aviva acted in line with the regulators guidance in the way it responded to Mr Ms initial 
complaint.
I can see from the letter Aviva says it sent Mr and Mrs M in May 2020 that deferred payment 
periods are explicitly referred to. The letter says:
If youre struggling financially due to Coronavirus (COVID-19) and need help, we can defer 
your monthly payment for up to three months. Please remember that youll need to pay back 
the premium when the deferral period ends.
So I think Aviva made it clear that deferred premiums did need to be repaid. 
I appreciate that Aviva could have asked Mr M more about his financial circumstances when 
he spoke to them in May 2020. However, I dont think the stance Aviva took was 
unreasonable at that point in time. The conversations took place in the very early days of the 
pandemic when guidance from the regulator was still evolving. And I think Aviva offered Mr 
M a reasonable option by saying he could defer his payments. I dont think, in all the 
circumstances, they were required to offer him free cover, a significant discount or a refund. I also dont think its accurate to say Mr and Mrs Ms policy was unusable. Depending on the 
type of medical treatment or services they required, Aviva couldve pre-authorised treatment 
to be carried out at a later date. Mr and Mrs M had access to, amongst other things, Avivas 
remote services, mental health support and video consultations. I appreciate Mr M 
experienced a technical fault with the online GP on 24 March 2020 and he says this 
persisted. However, Avivas records only refer to one conversation about this particular issue 
on 24 March 2020. And Mr M hasnt provided us with any further information about it, despite 
the investigator asking him to do so. So I havent seen enough to say that Aviva didnt 
provide the services during the pandemic which it said were available. 
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control because of, for 
example, the lack of availability of certain medical professionals. Aviva doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of 
insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of 
its control.
In any event though, Mr and Mrs Ms last premium was collected on 5 March 2020  prior to 
the pandemic affecting private medical facilities. The policy has now been cancelled with 
effect from 5 April 2020. So I dont think that there are any premiums for Aviva to now waive 
or refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman