DRN-3688429
The complaint
Mr C has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C contacted AXA when part of a boundary wall collapsed at his home. AXA investigated 
the claim as storm damage and declined it because it said issues with the construction of the 
wall caused it to collapse. 
When Mr C complained to AXA, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. It also offered 
£50 as a gesture of goodwill due to the amount of time it took to respond to the complaint.
So, Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there 
were storm conditions and this was likely to be the reason the wall collapsed. He said there 
wasnt sufficient evidence to show the construction of the wall was the reason. He said AXA 
should reconsider the claim, pay for Mr Cs architect and pay £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C.
Following this, AXA reviewed the claim again and initially said it had fairly declined the claim. 
It then provided a further response following another review. This said it couldnt say for 
certain that the storm hadnt been the cause of the damage, despite identifying some issues 
with the wall. It offered to pay half the cost of repairing the wall.
Mr C declined AXAs offer and, as agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was 
referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that there were storm conditions 
around the time the wall collapsed. Having checked the weather data, I can see there were 
windspeeds in the local area of up to 74mph and 31mm of rain in a day in the period before 
the wall collapsed. So, I agree there were storm conditions.
So, Ive thought about the second question. Hurricane speed winds are normally regarded 
as starting at 73mph. So, a windspeed of 74mph would be regarded as hurricane speed. 
Hurricane speed winds can cause devastation, which I think could include causing a wall to 
collapse. So, I also think the answer to this question is yes.
So, Ive thought about whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. Mr 
C provided an architects report that said the storm was the main cause of the damage. AXA 
said the affected wall had been built or altered within the previous ten years and didnt meet 
building regulations. It said it was inevitable the wall would have fallen at some point due to 
its construction. Mr C disputed this and said the wall had been there for more than 35 years 
and that it would have complied with the building regulations at the time it was built. Based 
on what Ive seen, including images showing the wall over a number of years, I havent seen 
evidence to show the wall was built or altered within the last ten years or that the wall didnt 
meet the building regulations at the time it was built. 
AXA has also said there were issues with the condition of the wall. It provided photos 
showing issues with parts of the wall crumbling. It also commented on the mortar and the 
height of the wall. Ive also seen an email from the local council that said when it carried out 
work close to Mr Cs boundary wall in the period before the wall collapsed there was nothing 
to indicate the condition of the wall was a cause for concern. I also note that AXA has since 
reviewed the claim again and said there were issues with the condition of the wall, but that it 
couldnt state that the wall would have failed even if there hadnt been a storm, although it 
noted that storms highlighted pre-existing conditions. At this point, AXA offered to pay half 
the cost of the claim for the wall.
For Mr Cs claim to succeed, the storm needed to be the main cause of the damage. But, 
this doesnt mean there couldnt be other issues with the wall, including issues around its 
construction or it having deteriorated in places. Although AXA initially said the wall had been 
built or altered in the last ten years, it seems to have moved away from that as a reason to 
decline the claim. AXA still has concerns about the condition of the wall but now seems to be 
of the view that it cant say for certain those issues were the cause and that it could have 
been the storm. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I think its reasonable to conclude that the storm was the 
main cause of the damage. There were hurricane force winds in the local area around the 
time the wall collapsed. Hurricanes can cause destruction of the type that happened to Mr 
Cs wall and I havent seen evidence that persuades me that any pre-existing conditions with 
the wall were more likely to be the main cause of the damage. So, I think AXA should 
reconsider the claim for storm damage without applying exclusions for poor workmanship or 
construction related to the wall. I also think AXA should pay the cost of Mr Cs architect 
report that he commissioned to support his claim after AXA declined it.
Ive also thought about compensation. Mr C has been caused distress and inconvenience by 
his claim being declined. The wall also provided protection and privacy from the nearby road, 
as well as reducing road noise. Im also aware of Mr Cs personal circumstances, which I 
think will have increased the impact on him of his claim being declined. So, I think AXA 
should pay Mr C a further £250 compensation, as I think this better reflects the impact on Mr 
C.
Putting things right
AXA should reconsider the claim without relying on exclusions for poor workmanship or 
construction, refund the cost of Mr Cs architect report and pay £250 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Reconsider the claim without relying on an exclusion for poor workmanship or 
construction.
Refund Mr C the cost of the architect report he commissioned.
Pay Mr C £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman