DRN-3910496
The complaint
Mr P complains that he and his wife were mis-sold a timeshare when they were on holiday in 
Portugal. Because the purchase was funded in part with Mr Ps Barclaycard, he says that he 
has a claim against Barclays Bank PLC (which issues credit cards under its Barclaycard 
brand) in the same way as he does against the seller. 
Mr P has been represented in bringing his claim against Barclaycard and in referring his 
complaint to this service. Any references I make to his submissions or evidence include 
submissions made or evidence provided on his behalf.  
What happened
On 18 May 2003 Mr and Mrs P signed an agreement with a company Ill refer to as H for 
the purchase of a one-week timeshare in Portugal. H was a company registered in the 
British Virgin Islands. 
The agreement recorded that the price of the timeshare was £3,500 and payment of £350 
was to be made by credit card on the same date, followed by the balance of £3,150 on 20 
June 2003. The credit card payment was made using Mr Ps Barclaycard to a company Ill 
call F and which is registered in the Isle of Man. 
Towards the end of 2018 Mr P complained to Barclaycard. He said that the timeshare had 
been sold as the result of pressured and unfair sales tactics and that it been misrepresented 
to him. He mentioned specifically the quality of the accommodation, the difficulty in selling 
the timeshare and the open-ended nature of the agreement. 
Mr P said that, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 Barclaycard was liable to 
meet his claims in the same way as H. He said too that the way in which the sale had been 
conducted meant that his credit agreement with Barclaycard created an unfair relationship 
within the meaning of section 140A of the same Act. 
Barclaycard did not accept Mr Ps claim. It said, in summary:
Because payment had been made to F, rather than to H, section 75 did not apply.
In any event, any claim would now be out of time under the Limitation Act 1980. 
Mr P referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator was broadly in agreement with Barclaycard and did not 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr P asked that an ombudsman review the case 
and issue a final decision, as our rules entitle him to do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Visa, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. 
Barclaycard says however that the credit here was not provided under arrangements it had 
with the supplier, H. Rather, it was provided under pre-existing arrangements with F, a 
business which provides escrow and payment intermediary services. 
I believe that is the correct analysis in this case. F provides the services which Barclaycard 
has outlined, but that is not a sufficient link for section 75 to apply here. 
Section 75 can also apply where the supplier and the business which takes payment are 
associates of each other (defined in section 184 of the Consumer Credit Act). A company 
is an associate of another if one controls the other or if they are both controlled by the same 
people or by associates of those people. Whilst it is very difficult to find out who controls 
companies registered in the British Virgin Islands, I think it unlikely that H and F were 
associates, given the known nature of Fs business. 
I accept of course that Mr P may not have known that he was paying F; he almost certainly 
did not appreciate the significance of that for the application of section 75. That makes no 
difference however to Barclaycards liability in this case.
However, even if I were to take the view that section 75 could apply here, I do not believe it 
would change the outcome. 
Mr Ps primary case is that he has a claim for misrepresentation against H. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr P into buying the 
timeshare were made on or before 18 May 2003. Mr P did not however raise any complaint 
with until late 2018, more than 15 years later. I think it very likely therefore that an English 
court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in 
the Limitation Act. 
I should mention too that, since the timeshare concerned rights over real property in 
Portugal, it was probably subject to Portuguese law. Mr P has not provided any evidence 
however that Portuguese law recognises claims for misrepresentation or of the relevant time 
limits that might apply. 
In view of the position under English law, however, and given that the credit card payment 
was made to a party which was not the supplier or an associate of the supplier, I think that Barclaycards response to the section 75 claim was reasonable. 
Mr P says too that the credit agreement creates an unfair relationship between him and 
Barclaycard. In saying that, he relies on events connected to the timeshare sale. 
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
Section 140A to 140D came into force on 6 April 2007, some four years after the timeshare 
sale. They replaced similar, but not identical, provisions under sections 137 to 140, which 
dealt with extortionate credit bargains. I do not believe however that a court would be likely 
to re-open Mr Ps credit agreement under either regime. The credit card account was not 
opened as a result of anything connected with the sale of the timeshare. In fact. Mr P had 
had a Barclaycard account since 1977 and closed it in September 2016. Im not aware that 
he ever suggested in all that time that it amounted to an extortionate credit bargain or that it 
created an unfair relationship. If he thought it did, there seems to be no reason for him to 
have kept the account open for as long as he did . 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Barclays Bank PLC to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ps complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman