DRN-4017732
The complaint
Mr G complains that Valour Finance Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk, lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr G was approved for one loan on 3 April 2020. It was for £800 over 12 months and the 
repayments were scheduled to be £133.33 each month. Valour has informed us the loan has 
been repaid. 
Mr G raised his complaint with Valour in June 2022 and Valour issued him with its final 
response letter (FRL) dated 1 August 2022. Valour explained that it had carried out suitable 
affordability checks. Mr G had two jobs  one which he had confirmed with Valour would be 
considered a job designated as being a job classed as essential through the Covid 19 
national pandemic crisis (which had commenced in March 2020). Mr G had sent to Valour a 
payslip for his main full time employment and one from his second employer plus his 
furlough letter from that part-time employer. 
After Valour had explained in its FRL why it did not consider it needed to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint he referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Gs complaint and he thought that Valour had carried 
out the appropriate and proportionate checks. He did not think Valour needed to do anything 
to put things right for Mr G.
Mr G responded by sending in many sets of copy bank account statements and explained 
that he had a lot of outstanding debt at the time. He said he was in a payday cycle. So, he 
thought that the £800 ought never to have been approved for him.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Valours checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Gs income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:
Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G. 
Valour was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint. And Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. I give my reasons in this decision. 
Valour carried out checks which were proportionate and had done additional ones to 
address the issue of the closure of many businesses and establishments due to the national 
pandemic lockdown which had commenced in March 2020. 
There had been a recorded telephone conversation on 3 April 2020 which I have listened to. 
That was between Mr G and the Valour representative. She confirmed several elements of 
his application with him and had carried out an income verification check while he was on 
the telephone. She had needed to see one of his payslips. Mr G appears to have sent in 
both payslips for March 2020. The Valour representative had carried out a credit search and 
Mr G had confirmed that he lived at home with his parents, that he contributed £150 towards 
the running costs but did not specifically pay any bills such as council tax, utilities, TV licence 
or television. He also had his own modest living costs, did not run a car, used the train to get 
to work and had a phone.
Valour said in its FRL to Mr G:
In summary, very firm evidence has been summarised within this response to 
confirm that you were able to afford the repayments on the loan issued and I am 
more than satisfied that these checks meet regulations in place.Valours credit search had revealed that Mr G was committed to paying around £86.20 for a 
couple of loans and a telephone and on the recorded call I heard Mr G confirm that his credit 
costs were about £90 a month. Valour has said  The assessment demonstrated a total 
monthly income of £1,373.76 and a total monthly expenditure of £596.20, including your 
existing debt repayments. This means that your available monthly surplus was £777.56. And 
I agree with what it saw and that it was based on proportionate checks.
Ive noted Mr Gs submissions about him having much more debt and expenditure than that. 
But the credit search Valour carried out was an appropriate one and Ive reviewed those 
results. Valour did not need to carry out a credit search, but having got one it appears to 
have utilised the information in the right way. Any recent loans  meaning loans Mr G may 
have taken out before applying to Valour  may not have registered on the credit file when 
Valour carried out the search. And I note that Mr G had several accounts which had 
overdrafts but having and using an overdraft is not necessarily a reason not to approve a 
loan. And on the details Valour saw at the time, it would have calculated that Mr G would 
have been able to afford the overdraft fees as well as its own loan repayments. 
Im not persuaded to find in favour of Mr G based on the fact it didnt see on its credit search 
additional loans about which Mr G appeared to know and which he failed to inform Valour. 
And his accommodation status meant that it was costing Mr G something  of that theres no 
doubt  but Mr G was not exposed to the risk of not being able to pay priority bills as they 
were paid for by his parents and he contributed £150 a month. So that would have been a 
factor Valour would have noted and added into the overall picture when assessing his 
creditworthiness.  
And I would not necessarily have expected Valour to have asked for and reviewed Mr Gs 
bank account statements. It had no reason to have been alerted to any financial concerns 
from the research and assessment it had already carried out. And so, to have asked for bank 
account statements likely would have been disproportionate. 
I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman