DRN-2496442
The complaint
Mr A and the estate of Mr M complain about how Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) 
handled a travel insurance claim when Mr M fell ill abroad. 
All references to URV include the agents it appointed to deal with the claim on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr A and Mr M were insured under an annual travel insurance policy, provided by URV.
Unfortunately, while on holiday abroad with Mr A, Mr M fell ill. Mr M was admitted to a private
hospital (which Ill call hospital H) on 3 July 2019. Mr A contacted URV to say hospital H
was asking for a guarantee of payment from URV, and URV spoke to hospital H in an
attempt to confirm next steps. Later the same day, Mr A contacted URV again seeking
reassurance that the guarantee of payment was being dealt with, as hospital H had taken his
credit card details.
Over the eight days, URV received numerous telephone calls from Mr A and Mr Ms mother
(Mrs M), as well as from other parties on their behalf, saying hospital H was putting pressure
on Mr A, Mr M and Mrs M to make payments to it. URV was told hospital H was harassing
Mr A and Mr M about money, there were armed guards outside Mr Ms door, and that
hospital H was refusing to let Mr M have visitors. Hospital H also contacted URV directly,
asking for a guarantee of payment.
After threatening to transfer Mr M to a different hospital on several occasions, hospital H
moved Mr M to a public hospital on 11 July 2019.
Mr A complained to URV about the conditions in the public hospital and asked for an
interpreter, as he said no-one spoke English. On one occasion, Mr A had to bring a taxi
driver into the hospital with him to act as a translator. Meanwhile, URV was arranging for
extensions of Mr As accommodation and speaking to Mrs M about the possibility of her
flying out to Mr A and Mr Ms destination to be with them. URV was also considering flying
Mr A by air ambulance to a Caribbean island.
However, Mr M very sadly passed away ten days after hed been moved from hospital H to
the public hospital.
Mr A paid for Mr Ms body to be released and URV instructed a funeral director abroad to
plan to bring Mr M home. URV later reimbursed Mr A for money hed paid to both hospital H
and to the public hospital, as well as for accommodation, medication and taxi costs.
Unhappy with how the claim was handled, Mrs M (acting in her capacity as the
representative of Mr Ms estate) complained to URV on behalf of Mr A and her sons estate.
URV said it believed a guarantee of payment had been given to hospital H, and that the
behaviour of hospital H was unacceptable but URV had no duty of care in relation to the
treatment given by or the actions of a treating hospital. However, URV acknowledged it had
taken some time to confirm cover for the claim and agreed it hadnt provided regular updates
to Mr A and/or Mrs M. URV also said Mr A and Mrs M had to chase Mr As accommodation
extensions and it could have avoided this by agreeing to extensions for longer periods of
time. URV apologised for the fact that Mr A had to pay the public hospital to release Mr Ms
body and said it would have paid this cost directly if it had been made aware of the issue.
URV offered Mrs M £500 compensation for the overall level of service it had provided.
Mrs M didnt accept URVs offer and brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she thought URV had failed to
provide hospital H with an acceptable guarantee of payment. She thought this failure
resulted in Mr A being pressurised by hospital H, and also resulted in Mr M being moved to a
public hospital. Our investigator also thought there was a window of opportunity during which
URV could have proactively moved Mr H to a different hospital, as URV should reasonably
have been aware that conditions in the public hospital were likely to have been unsuitable for
Mr M. Therefore, our investigator recommended that URV should pay Mr A and the estate of
Mr M an additional £2,000 compensation for the distress its actions caused.
URV didnt accept our investigators recommendations, but said it was prepared to increase
its original compensation offer from £500 to £1,000. Mrs M didnt accept URVs increased
offer, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I made my provisional decision about the complaint in November 2020. In it, I said:
Im very sorry to hear about the sad circumstances surrounding this complaint and Id like to
offer Mr A and Mrs M my sincere condolences for their loss.
Ive reviewed the complaint points Mrs M has raised on behalf of Mr A and her sons estate,
and Ill address what I think are the key issues in turn.
Hospital H
The terms and conditions of Mr A and Mr Ms policy say URV will pay for:
customary and reasonable fees or charges for necessary and emergency treatment,
to be paid outside your home country for medical, surgical, hospital nursing home or
nursing services.
The policy also says:
Your policy covers treatment at a public/state facility only, unless approved by us.
Mr M had already been admitted to hospital H, a private hospital, when URV was notified of
the claim. If URV wasnt prepared to approve for Mr M to be treated in a private hospital at
the destination he was visiting, Id expect it to have informed Mr A of this immediately and to
have arranged to assist in Mr Ms transfer to a state facility.
However, there was no suggestion from URV at the time that it wasnt prepared to cover the
costs of Mr Ms treatment at hospital H on the basis that it was a private hospital. Id
therefore expect URV to have liaised with hospital H about any necessary guarantee of
payment for medical treatment as soon as possible.
URV did speak to hospital H on the day Mr M was admitted. Our investigator said she
thought hospital H had made it clear to URV what its requirements regarding a guarantee of
payment were, and that URV had failed to send a guarantee of payment which wasacceptable to hospital H.
Ive listened to a recording of the telephone conversation between hospital H and URV on 3
July 2019. I agree that hospital H clearly told URV it wouldnt accept a guarantee of payment
from it directly, and that URV would need to appoint a third-party broker to give a guarantee
of payment on its behalf. When URV named the third-party agent it intended to appoint to
deal with the claim, hospital H said it didnt have a record of that third party on its systems as
a business it would accept a guarantee of payment from either.
Im satisfied that, during this call, hospital H said it wouldnt accept a guarantee of payment
from URV directly and indicated that it wouldnt work with the third party URV named either.
However, after our investigator issued her opinions about this case, URV provided us with
additional evidence.
This evidence contradicts what URV told Mrs M had happened in its final response letter, but
Im satisfied the evidence demonstrates;
URV instructed the third-party agent to give hospital H a guarantee of payment on 8
July 2019;
the third-party agent sent hospital H a guarantee of payment for a sum in excess of
USD$40,000 on 8 July 2019;
hospital H billed the agent for a lesser sum of money on 9 July 2019.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied URV placed a guarantee of payment with
hospital H on 8 July 2019. URV confirmed this to hospital H when it chased URV on 10 July
2019. And, since hospital H acted on the guarantee of payment by billing the third-party
agent on 9 July 2019, I consider it fair to say the guarantee of payment was accepted
despite what hospital H told URV on the telephone on 3 July 2019. This means I dont think
its reasonable to conclude there was any failure by URV in dealing with hospital H after 8
July 2019. So, I dont think I can fairly say URVs actions  or inactions - contributed to the
decision by hospital H to transfer Mr M to a public hospital on 11 July 2019.
Unfortunately, I cant offer Mr A or Mrs M any insight into what happened in relation to the
guarantee of payment or the billing for Mr Ms medical treatment between 8 July 2019 and
11 July 2019 when Mr M was moved from hospital H to a public hospital, or why hospital H
continued to request payments from Mr A, Mr M and Mrs M during this time. There may have
been a breakdown in communications between departments within hospital H. Alternatively,
there may have been a problem with the amount of the guarantee but, if that was the case,
then it was up to hospital H to make URV aware of the issue.
Having said that, I do think there was an unreasonable delay by URV in taking action to deal
with hospital Hs requests for a guarantee of payment between 4 July 2019 and 8 July 2019.
URVs notes from 4 July 2019 say it had instructed the third-party agent but hadnt received
any updates in response, but there was no indication that URV was chasing the third-party
agent at this time. Updates given by URV to Mr A, his tour representative abroad, Mrs M and
hospital H on 4 July, 5 July, 6 July and 7 July 2019 were that URV was waiting for the third-
party agent to deal with the guarantee of payment. I can see URV contacted the agent for an
update on 6 July 2019 but, overall, I think URV could have done more to progress the matter
during this time and Im satisfied that its failure to do so meant Mr A and Mr M experienced
significant distress and inconvenience due to the pressure they were being put under by
hospital H.
Our investigator also concluded that URV had a window of opportunity from 10 July 2019 to
move Mr M to a different medical facility. I agree that for URV to have done so is likely to
have prevented further pressure being placed on Mr A and Mr M by hospital H. However, inmaking decisions about Mr Ms treatment, Id expect URV to act with Mr Ms best medical
interests in mind, taking into account all the available medical evidence. I havent seen any
information to suggest hospital H wasnt an appropriate medical facility to treat Mr M. The
suggestion by the third-party agent to move Mr M to a hospital on a Caribbean island
appears to have been made for cost rather than for medical reasons. So, I dont think I can
reasonably conclude that URV should have acted to move Mr M elsewhere.
The public hospital
On 12 July 2019, the day after Mr M was transferred to the public hospital, Mr A contacted
URV to complain about the conditions there.
Our investigator thought URV should reasonably have been aware that the conditions in the
public hospital were unlikely to be suitable for Mr M. The standards of hospitals abroad may
often be of a lower quality then wed expect of the NHS, but I havent seen any evidence to
support a conclusion that the public hospital wasnt equipped to meet Mr Ms medical needs.
I understand Mr A had to travel to a pharmacy to obtain medication for Mr M and I have no
doubt this will have been inconvenient, but this in itself doesnt mean the public hospital was
an unsuitable facility for Mr M to be treated at.
Its clear Mr A was struggling with the language barrier at the public hospital. URV was made
aware of this on a number of occasions. This must have been very distressing for Mr A at an
already extremely difficult time. While I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to appoint a
dedicated translator for a policyholder in a situation such as this, I think it would have been
reasonable for URV to have provided some level of assistance to Mr A via its emergency
assistance service to ensure he had access to a translator to receive updates from the
hospital about Mr Ms condition and ongoing treatment.
I can understand Mr A and Mrs M will have been anxious to get Mr M home as soon as
possible. Mr A was told by Mr Ms treating doctors on 16 July 2019 that Mr M could be
repatriated on a flight with oxygen and a medical team. And, URV again considered the
possibility of moving Mr M by air ambulance to a Caribbean island around this time.
However, the information Ive seen suggests the earliest Mr M would have been fit to fly was
from 19 July 2019. Given the deterioration in Mr Ms condition on 19 July and 20 July 2019, I
dont think its likely URV would have been in a position to arrange for Mr M to be transferred
home or to another destination abroad before his sad passing on 21 July 2019.
Events after Mr Ms passing
Mr A paid the public hospital directly in order to release Mr Ms body. I cant imagine how
upsetting this situation must have been for Mr A, as well as for Mrs M who didnt get the
opportunity to fly out to see Mr M as shed planned.
URV has said it doesnt know why the public hospital didnt invoice it directly and that it
would have paid these costs if it had been made aware of the situation. URVs notes from 22
July 2019 say a travel agent representative told it Mr A had paid the hospital and would
claim the costs back from URV, which he subsequently has. However, a further note on
URVs file indicates that URV was in fact asked to pay the public hospital in order that
Mr Ms body could be released. Ive factored this into my consideration of what award of
compensation I think is appropriate in the circumstances.
URV instructed a funeral director to bring Mr M home after hed passed away. Mrs M has
mentioned there were issues with this process, and Mr M was first taken to other countries
before arriving home without the relevant papers. Sadly, the process of repatriation(particularly from a country such as the one Mr A and Mr M were visiting) can often be
unavoidably lengthy, via indirect routes with a limited number of airlines. Mr A and Mrs M
have my sincere sympathies for the loss theyve had to deal with. While I by no means wish
to dismiss the impact of this situation on them both, I dont think I can fairly conclude that
URV should have done anything more in the circumstances.
URVs claims decision and communications
An insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries into a policyholders medical history to
satisfy itself that a claim is covered under their policy. While delays may sometimes arise
which are outside of an insurers control, the insurer should make these enquiries without
unreasonable or excessive delay.
URV has said it took too long to confirm cover for Mr Ms claim. Having reviewed URVs
claims notes, I agree that URV could have requested relevant information from Mr Ms GP
sooner than it did. However, I note that URV may have had grounds to dispute cover for this
claim based on the possible non-disclosure of pre-existing medical conditions by Mr M but
chose not to do so.
Im pleased to see URV has acknowledged it should have maintained more consistent
contact with Mr A and Mrs M during the initial stages of the claim. Its clear from URVs
contact notes that most of the communication was coming from Mr A and Mrs M, and that
URV did very little to pro-actively update Mr A and Mrs M while Mr M was in hospital H. Its
also clear that Mr A and Mrs M had to chase Mr As accommodation extensions in what
were, at times, distressed states and URV has also acknowledged it could have done more
to facilitate extending Mr As hotel stays for longer periods of time.
Compensation
Mrs M wasnt insured under this policy. This means she isnt an eligible complainant in her
own right under our rules (other than in her capacity as the estate of Mr M), so I cant award
compensation for any upset which she personally experienced. I would, however, like to
specifically note that if I did have the power to make an award of compensation to Mrs M for
the impact of URVs actions on her then I would do so. I say this having particular regard to
an email URV sent to Mrs M on 24 July 2019 referring to its medical team being in the
process of reviewing the case to decide whether to fly Mr M home, and Mr Ms safety being
paramount. By this point, Mr M had already sadly passed away.
I can only ask URV to pay compensation for the impact of its actions on its customer. The
estate of Mr M wasnt a customer of URV. So, in this case I can only award compensation
for the trouble and upset experienced by Mr A, and by Mr M during the time he was aware of
what was going on while he was in hospital.
Our investigator felt an award totalling £2,500 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
But, as Ive explained, I dont think the evidence supports a number of our investigators
conclusions.
I appreciate Mr A and Mrs M are likely to be very disappointed by my findings, but I think
URVs increased offer of £1,000 fairly compensates Mr A for the distress and inconvenience
he experienced as a result of URVs failings in this case.
Other issues
I note that Mr A and Mr Ms policy provides for the payment of a public hospital benefit to apolicyholder in certain circumstances. Ive seen no evidence on URVs file that this has been
paid. If the benefit hasnt already been paid, then I think it should be.
URV accepted my provisional decision. Mrs M responded to my provisional decision to say 
she understood the conclusions Id reached but reiterated her belief that if things had been 
handled with accuracy and mistakes hadnt been made, Mr M would still be alive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or additional submissions, I see no 
reason to change my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
URV needs to put things right in the following way:
pay £1,000 compensation to Mr A and the estate of Mr M for the distress and 
inconvenience caused;
pay any public hospital benefit due to the estate of Mr M, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. URV should add interest to this benefit payment at 
8% simple per annum from the date of the claim until the date settlement is paid. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr A and the estate of Mr Ms complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG 
and I direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and the 
estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman