DRN-1662495
The complaint
Mrs P complains that a car she acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs P is represented in her complaint by Mr P but for ease I will refer to Mrs P throughout 
my decision.
On 18 June 2019, Mrs P acquired a car using a Hire Purchase agreement with Oodle. The 
car was four years old and had covered 48,768 miles. Mrs P says she first noticed a problem 
in August 2019. She took the car back to the garage who looked had it for three weeks.
On 4 November 2019, the vehicle broke down and was recovered to the garage again. She 
contacted Oodle to let them know there were issues with the car. Oodle commissioned an 
inspection by a third party. This was carried out on 18 November 2019. The mileage on the 
car was recorded 55,016. The report included:
forward and reverse gears selected on the dashboard display however no drive in either 
direction was evident, but then later Upon disconnecting the diagnostic scanner I selected 
drive and both forward and backward motion was available. I took the vehicle on a test drive 
and although the vehicle changed gears up and down the automatic box the gear changes 
were very slow and jolty.
It went on to say it found the car to be roadworthy and met minimum MOT standards.
Mrs P continued to experience problems with the gearbox.
Oodle spoke to Mrs P and agreed to pay for an independent ACE report. This was 
undertaken on 5 December 2019. The recorded mileage was 55,716. This report said:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that upon a diagnostic
check there were no codes stored or pending. During a six-mile road test under varying road
and traffic conditions we found the gearbox performance to be good. All gears selected
smoothly and readily. Take up of drive was good. There were no abnormal noises and no
faults could be found at the time of our inspection.
On 6 December 2019, Oodle issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It 
said it has commissioned two independent inspection reports, and both suggested the 
issues were related to maintenance and the car may need a service. As such it said, these 
would be Mrs Ps responsibility. It said the reports didnt suggest the car wasnt of a 
satisfactory quality.
Dissatisfied, Mrs P referred her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mrs P. He had information from Mrs P that since 
making the complaint she had experienced further problems with the same issue. He asked 
Oodle to commission a third report. This report was carried out on 26 February 2020. The 
mileage at this point was 56,990 it said the car was:
suffering from what we believe to a potential clutch actuator fault which is preventing the
vehicle from engaging drive when gears are selected, and the vehicle is having
transmission issues and would require further investigation under workshop conditions to
confirm them.
He went onto consider the durability of the car. As it was 4 years old and travelled less than 
50,000 miles when purchased. He noted the ACE report didnt identify a fault present at the 
point of sale, but he pointed out this didnt mean it wasnt developing at the point of sale. He 
considered further evidence that suggested this wasnt a maintenance issue as the gearbox 
in Mrs Ps car was a sealed unit and not something that would be maintained unless there 
was a clutch failure or a leak. 
On balance the investigator found that it was more likely than not a fault was developing at 
the point of sale. He said Mrs P had reported problems within six months and they had 
continued intermittently since. The car was no longer driveable, and he considered Oodle 
should put things right. He noted Mrs P had use of the car and so didnt suggest any of the 
monthly repayments should be refunded. He also noted a deposit hadnt been paid. He 
agreed Mrs P should be allowed to reject the car and Oodle should remove any adverse 
information from her credit file. He also found this matter had caused Mrs P considerable 
trouble and upset and asked Oodle to pay £200 in respect of this.
Oodle disagreed. It said it had commissioned three independent reports and none of them 
conclude there were issues at the point of sale or any responsibility on the selling agent. It 
asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigators view. Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. There is a lot of information here from both parties. 
Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of 
it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
Mrs P acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Because Oodle has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, considering all the relevant circumstances such as, 
amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a 
second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mrs P  to cost less than a brand-new car and to 
have a degree of wear and tear. So, in order to uphold this complaint in would need to be 
satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car as opposed to something caused by 
general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months its 
presumed to be present at the point of supply and its generally up to the business to put 
things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the car had a fault at the point of supply.
Mrs P purchased the car in June 2019. She says she started to notice problems in July 
2019, by August 2019 she reported the issues to the garage, who had the car for 3 weeks. 
So, Mrs P first reported problems to Oodle with the car four months after the goods were 
supplied, and after it had covered around 6,000 miles.
When looking at satisfactory quality, this covers durability, amongst other things, which 
means that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of 
time  but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors.
In this case, Mrs P has consistently reported issues with the gearbox. Oodle have confirmed 
she mentioned this on the first call to them on 13 November 2019, even though its not 
mentioned in the call notes. 
We then have three independent reports, that take a slightly different position and report 
different conclusions. I appreciate Oodle point to the fact that all three havent confirmed a 
fault was present at the point of sale. But this is rather selective and none of the reports 
reach a conclusion on whether a fault was developing at the point of sale. 
In my view the November 2019 and February 2020 report both mention issues which it 
seems more likely than not are linked to the same fault. The November 2019 report said: 
forward and reverse gears selected on the dashboard display however no drive in either 
direction was evident, and then the report from February 2020 said the vehicle was 
suffering from what we believe to a potential clutch actuator fault which is preventing the 
vehicle from engaging drive when gears are selected.
The November 2019 report also mentioned that the transmission fluid could have been 
changed at this point to combat the slightly sluggish gear changes. But theres no evidence 
that this was carried out. Im aware Oodle have said this is because it was deemed to be a 
maintenance issue. But Mrs P provided evidence that suggests this is not the case because 
the gearbox is in fact sealed unit on this car. This would mean it needed to be dismantled the 
address the issue. That doesnt strike me as reasonable maintenance. 
The February 2020 Ace report does say it didnt identify a fault present at the point of sale, 
but it goes on to say:
Faults are present which require the vehicle to be further investigated under workshop 
conditions.
As far as Im aware there hasnt been any further investigation so I must decide what I think 
is more likely to be the case based on the evidence available.Mrs P has consistently complained about the same issues within six months of purchasing 
the car. The issue isnt minor, it relates to a vital component. The garage had the car for 
three weeks and had an opportunity to diagnose and make any necessary repairs, but the 
car has continued to have issues. I appreciate Mrs P has been able to drive the car for 
around 6,000 miles but its clear from all three reports the fault has presented intermittently. 
A fault doesnt have to be constant to be present. On balance, Im persuaded the car more 
likely than not was developing this fault at the point of sale.
Even if Im wrong, I think Mrs P should be allowed to reject the car on the basis that it hasnt 
proved durable enough. When considering whether a car was satisfactory at the point of 
supply this is an issue that the relevant legislation suggests is an important factor. The car 
has suffered frequent failures and is now undriveable. Im persuaded, even considering the 
age and mileage its completed, a reasonable person would expect the car to be more 
durable. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect the gearbox to begin to fail four 
months into an agreement. So, I dont think this car has proved to be of satisfactory quality 
as its most likely faults were developing at the point of supply and its not proved sufficiently 
durable. On this basis Im in agreement Mrs P should be allowed to reject the car.
I have taken account of the fact Mrs P has had use of the car, but the car has been 
undriveable since March and has been sat on her driveway. Mrs P says she paid all her 
payments up until January, she hasnt paid since then but says Oodle continue to ask her to 
restart her direct debit. Im in agreement Mrs P should pay for the time she had use of the 
car. So, I wont be asking Oodle to refund any of the payments. There is no deposit to refund 
either.
I appreciate this matter has caused Mrs P a great deal of trouble an upset and so Im going 
to award £200 in recognition of this and ask Oodle to remove any adverse information from 
her credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and I direct Oodle Financial Services 
Limited to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs P
End the agreement with nothing further to pay and remove any adverse 
information from Mrs Ps credit file
Pay Mrs P £200 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman