DRN-3844926
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding his 
request for a replacement debit card.
What happened
Mr M noticed that the contactless payment feature on his HSBC debit card was no longer 
working, so he contacted HSBC and requested a replacement card. However, the 
replacement debit card never arrived, and when Mr M contacted HSBC about the card he 
was told that there had been a problem with the address HSBC held for him which meant 
that Mr M would need to collect the replacement card from a HSBC branch. Mr M wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Ms complaint. They confirmed that an issue with how Mr Ms address 
had been recorded on their systems meant the replacement debit card couldnt be posted 
and so had to be collected from a HSBC branch. HSBC apologised to Mr M for this and 
offered to pay £400 compensation to him for any trouble and upset he may have incurred. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their investigation, HSBC reiterated 
their position and explained that they felt the agent who had initially dealt with Mr Ms 
complaint had offered a higher compensation amount that was fair or reasonable. So, they 
reduced their offer of compensation to Mr M from £400 to £100. 
Our investigator didnt feel that HSBC had done much wrong in how theyd managed this 
situation, and they felt HSBCs amended offer of £100 compensation was a fair amount in 
regard to Mr M being asked to collect the debit card from HSBCs branch. Mr M continued to 
be dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have confirmed that Mr Ms address wasnt fully complete on their systems, being 
held as the house number, street name, and postcode only. And HSBC have further 
confirmed that, while this short-form address was sufficient for them to issue monthly 
account statements and other correspondence to that address, it wasnt enough to satisfy 
the more stringent requirements of the separate HSBC system that dealt with replacement 
debit card issuances, and that therefore it was for this reason  that Mr Ms full address 
wasnt held with HSBC  that Mr Ms requested replacement debit card wasnt delivered to 
his address as he would have liked.
HSBC therefore ordered Mr Ms replacement debit card to one of the nearest HSBC 
branches to Mr Ms address, in line with their policies, and notified Mr M about this and the 
need for him to collect the replacement card from that branch accordingly. And while Mr M 
did then contact HSBC and provided his full address to them, HSBCs policies also meant 
that HSBC werent willing to send the replacement card to Mr Ms updated address from the 
branch it had been ordered to, and that Mr M was still required to collect it from the branch. 
HSBC are entitled to hold the policies that they do here. But it seems evident that Mr M was 
inconvenienced by being asked to collect the card from HSBCs branch, which was about a 
three-mile walk or a twenty-minute car journey from Mr Ms address. And I note that HSBC 
appear to have accepted this point and offered Mr M compensation of £100 as a result.
However, Mr M has explained to this service that he refused to collect the debit card from 
HSBCs branch on principle, and hes further explained that he feels the considerable 
inconvenience and upset his not having a contactless debit card has caused him since that 
time should merit a compensation payment to him from HSBC of £25,000.
I find it difficult to understand Mr Ms position here, and while I accept that he has incurred 
an ongoing detriment resultant from his not having a contactless debit card, I feel that Mr M 
himself should bear the responsibility for this, given that the option for him to collect the 
replacement debit card from HSBCs branch was always available to him, and that he 
refused to take that option. And I find Mr Ms position here to be especially counter-intuitive, 
given that Mr M has taken great pains to explain to this service exactly how much he needed 
a contactless debit card  which he then refused to pick up from HSBCs branch.
Ultimately, I feel that HSBC should fairly be asked to compensate Mr M for the 
inconvenience he would have incurred had he picked up the replacement debit card from 
HSBCs branch as he was asked to. And I feel the £100 compensation amount already 
offered by HSBC does represent a fair and reasonable level of compensation for this point  
for Mr M being asked to visit HSBCs branch to pick up the replacement card as he was. 
Additionally, as explained, I dont feel that HSBC should be fairly held accountable for any 
further inconvenience or upset that Mr M experienced as a result of him refusing to pick up 
the debit card from HSBCs branch, which I feel he reasonably could and should have done.
It's my understanding that because Mr M didnt pick up the replacement debit card from 
HSBCs branch in a reasonable time that the replacement card has now been destroyed and 
that Mr M will need to order another replacement card should he still require one. This 
seems reasonable to me, and I encourage Mr M to follow the steps required of him by HSBC 
if he continues to want a replacement debit card.
All of which means that, while I will technically be upholding this complaint in Mr Ms favour, 
Ill only be doing so in order to formally require  should Mr M accept the decision that Ive 
issued here  HSBC to pay the £100 compensation to Mr M that theyve already offered, and 
I wont be recording any adverse outcome against HSBC in regard to this complaint.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £100 to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman