DRN-2257260
The complaint
Mr L complains about the early withdrawal penalty Newcastle Building Society (NBS) applied 
when he transferred his ISA account balance to an account elsewhere.
What happened
On 6 August 2019 Mr L applied online for a 5 year fixed rate cash ISA with NBS. When his 
ISA was opened Mr L credited his account with £20000. On 16 March 2020 Mr L submitted 
an ISA transfer request to NBS as he wanted to transfer his cash ISA balance to a stocks 
and shares ISA with another provider. 
On 20 March 2020 NBS wrote to Mr L explaining that it couldnt complete his request 
because it needed to confirm he was happy to accept the early withdrawal penalty it was 
intending to apply to his account balance. And it said the penalty for transferring funds prior 
to the ISA maturity date would be 365 days loss of interest. 
Mr L contacted NBS on 26 March 2020 and was reminded he would incur a penalty of 365 
days of interest if he was to proceed with his transfer request. NBS said it informed Mr L 
that, if insufficient interest had accrued, the remaining penalty would be deducted from his 
closing capital.
Mr L told NBS he was unhappy with the penalty it proposed to apply. But he asked it to 
proceed with his transfer in any event. So, on 27 March 2020 NBS closed Mr Ls account 
and transferred his funds to another provider in line with his instructions. 
As part of the transfer process NBS deducted £424 from Mr Ls account balance, which 
included a deduction from his capital balance. Mr L disputed that NBS had properly 
calculated his penalty and complained.
When NBS responded to Mr Ls complaint it provided him with an interest penalty 
calculation. And it explained that because Mr Ls account hadnt been open for 365 days, he 
hadnt accrued 365 days worth of interest. So, it had deducted part of the early withdrawal 
penalty from his closing capital. It said information about how deductions are made had been 
provided to Mr L when he opened his account. So, it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr L felt information about early withdrawal penalties hadnt been sufficiently drawn to his 
attention and he said hed been misled. So, he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened but didnt recommend upholding his complaint. They 
were persuaded that NBS had presented clear information about how it deducted penalty 
interest and thought it had acted in line with the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ls 
ISA. They therefore didnt think NBS had treated Mr L unfairly. But Mr L disagreed with our 
investigator and asked an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr L experienced here. I understand he feels very 
strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I can see hes gone to some trouble to 
provide our service with some very detailed submissions. I want to assure him that Ive read 
everything hes sent us. I hope hell understand if I dont address every comment hes made 
in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider to be key to this complaint; namely 
whether NBS provided adequate and clear information that it would apply an early 
withdrawal penalty if he closed his ISA prior to the maturity date.
Mr L opened his account online. And NBS has provided our service with a screenshot from 
its website showing what Mr L would have seen prior to finalising his application to open his 
ISA account. The screenshot Ive seen satisfies me that NBS would have shown Mr L links 
to the general terms and conditions and special conditions of his ISA product. 
I can see NBS website requires its customers to tick a box which states I can confirm that I 
have downloaded, read and agree to both the Savings General Terms and Conditions and 
the Newcastle Five Year Fixed Rate ISA (Issue 30) Product Special Conditions.
This persuades me that Mr L wouldnt have been able to proceed with the account opening 
process unless hed downloaded and agreed to the special conditions and general terms 
and conditions. The onus was on Mr L to read these documents before finalising the account 
opening process. I cant fairly hold NBS responsible if he failed to do so.
The key facts document Mr L would have had access to contains a summary box, which lists 
a series of questions. In answer to the question can I withdraw money? the document 
states withdrawals/transfers are permitted subject to 365 days loss of interest.
The special conditions that apply to Mr Ls ISA also make clear that withdrawals or transfers 
can be made subject to 365 days loss of interest. But they go on to outline that if the interest 
earned isnt enough to cover the early withdrawal penalty it will be deducted from a 
customers closing capital. The conditions state closure of the account or transfers to 
another account with the Society or to another provider are classed as withdrawals.
Based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied NBS provided transparent and unambiguous 
information to Mr L during the account opening process that his closing capital would be at 
risk of an early withdrawal penalty if he decided to close his account before accruing 365 
days worth of interest. I think he was given enough information to enable him to make an 
informed choice as to whether the ISA he opened was suitable for his requirements. I 
therefore dont believe he was misled during the account opening process.
I also think that, after Mr L notified NBS he wanted to transfer his ISA balance to another 
provider, it informed him on at least two further occasions that his withdrawal would be 
subject to an early withdrawal penalty that would affect his capital. I say this because NBS 
sent him a letter on 20 March 2020, which clearly stated hed lose 365 days interest if his 
ISA balance was transferred prior to the maturity date. NBS also explained this again to Mr L 
over the telephone on 26 March 2020. He chose to proceed with his withdrawal in light of 
that information. And I think he ought reasonably to have known that, in doing so, the early 
withdrawal penalty would be deducted from his capital.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied the interest NBS deducted from 
Mr Ls account balance was in line with the terms of his account. It follows that I cant fairly 
ask NSB to reduce the early withdrawal penalty it applied here.I understand that Mr L has told our investigator hed like our service to tell NBS to change 
the way it presents information to its customers about early withdrawal penalties. However, 
there were limitations as to what our service can do here on Mr Ls behalf. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not a regulator. We provide informal dispute resolution. So, I dont 
have the power to tell NBS to make the changes Mr L feels it should make.  
I know that Mr L will be disappointed by this decision and I appreciate the reasons why he 
brought his complaint to our service. But for the reasons given Im not persuaded NBS did 
anything wrong here. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Ls dispute with NBS informally, 
can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr L further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman