DRN-3270930
The complaint
Ms M complains about the advice given by Quilter Financial Services Ltd to transfer the 
benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). She says the advice was unsuitable for her.
Ms M is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Ms M.
What happened
Ms M was referred to an appointed representative of Quilter in late 2019 to discuss her 
pension and retirement needs. 
Quilter completed a fact-find to gather information about Ms Ms circumstances and 
objectives. It recorded that Ms M was 63, divorced, with two grown children, neither of which 
were financially dependent on her. She owned her own home and one of her children lived 
with her, with their family. 
Ms M had a mortgage with an outstanding balance of approximately £30,000 as well as 
unsecured debts totalling around £13,500. She was paying £936 per month towards her 
mortgage and other debts. 
Ms M had recently stopped working to provide care for her mother and did not intend to 
return to work. She wasnt in receipt of any pension income or state benefits at that time so 
her only income was £450 per month which her son, who lived with her, paid as rent or a 
contribution towards bills. Shed been paying her outgoings from savings, but these had now 
largely been exhausted with only approximately £1,000 remaining. 
Quilter noted that Ms M expected to need an income of approximately £1,000 per month in 
retirement. And it says she was interested in accessing her pension benefits now, using tax-
free cash (TFC) to pay off her debts and complete some work to her home and drawing an 
income to cover her income needs, with her state pension entitlement then contributing 
towards these from age 66.
Quilter recorded that Ms M had a DB pension from the employer shed recently left. The 
pension benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £222,950.61. The 
scheduled retirement age for her DB pension was 66, at which point it would provide a 
guaranteed income of either £12,531 per year with TFC of £17,447, or a reduced annual 
pension of £8,990 and TFC of £59,936.
Quilter also carried out an assessment of Ms Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
moderate. 
On 28 November 2019, Quilter advised Ms M to transfer her pension benefits away from her 
DB scheme, take the maximum available TFC and invest the remainder into a SIPP (with 
99.75% in a Moderate Passive portfolio and the remaining 0.25% in cash). The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation were that it would provide the maximum 
available TFC to repay her liabilities and complete her home renovations. The new pension 
would provide her flexibility to draw a higher amount initially to cover her income needs and 
then reduce this when she began receiving state pension. It also allowed for the value of the 
pension to be passed to her children in the event of her death, which was Ms Ms 
preference.
The transfer went ahead in line with the recommendation.
Ms M complained in March 2021 to Quilter about the suitability of the transfer advice. She 
said she hadnt understood, and it hadnt been explained to her, that she was giving up 
valuable guaranteed benefits by transferring and replacing these with higher risk 
alternatives. She said she was an inexperienced investor with a conservative attitude to risk. 
And the amount of TFC received was virtually the same as she couldve taken from her 
existing scheme. So, she felt she was worse off and that the advice was unsuitable. 
Quilter didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. It said it felt the advice was suitable in her 
circumstances. Quilter said the recommended pension had provided a TFC sum that 
covered her debts, gave her the flexibility of taking her pension in a way that suited her plans 
and provided more suitable death benefits in relation to her circumstances.
Ms M referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
required Quilter to pay compensation. In summary she felt the need for some of the things 
Quilter said that the recommendation provided  flexibility and death benefits - had been 
overstated. And she felt Ms M couldve met her needs by remaining in her existing scheme 
and either waiting until her scheduled retirement date or taking her benefits straight away. 
She also thought Ms M was always going to be worse off as a result of the transfer, which 
she believed Quilter hadnt emphasised sufficiently. So, she didnt think the recommendation 
was in Ms Ms best interests.
Quilter disagreed. It said it felt the Investigator had placed too much emphasis on the 
difference in the pensionable income and not thought about what was right for Ms M. It said 
that the existing scheme wouldnt have allowed Ms M to meet her needs, which it considered 
to be urgent. And the other benefits of transferring were appropriate for Ms Ms 
circumstances and in line with preferences she had expressed. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure both parties that Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided. If I 
dont comment on or refer to everything Ive been sent this isnt meant as a discourtesy or 
because I havent thought about it. Rather it is because my decision will address what I 
consider to be the key issues in deciding what is fair and reasonable.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Ms Ms best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
As part of the process of giving its recommendation, Quilter instructed a transfer analysis to 
help assess if the transfer was appropriate. This gave an indication of the likelihood of Ms M 
being able to match or exceed the benefits offered by her existing pension if she transferred.
The analysis included calculating a transfer value comparator (TVC). This is a comparison 
of the CETV of the existing pension and the estimated cost of Ms M achieving the same 
benefits that the DB scheme guaranteed in an alternative pension. Ms Ms CETV was 
£222,950.61. But to achieve the same income that the DB scheme offered it was estimated 
shed need to pay £420,361.88. So, the same benefits would cost her £197,411.27 more if 
she transferred.
The analysis also included the calculation of a critical yield (CY)  the annual growth rate 
required of a new pension to enable Ms M to purchase equivalent benefits to those due 
under the DB scheme at retirement, at age 66. This was calculated as being 29.36% if Ms M 
took the full pension under her DB scheme or 20.15% if she took TFC and a reduced 
pension at retirement.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and was 2.7% per year for two years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, the 
moderate attitude to risk Quilter recorded Ms M as having and also the term to retirement. 
And Ive also thought about what the TVC said about how much equivalent benefits would 
cost. And having done so, I think Ms M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of transferring and investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. So, from a financial viability perspective, the transfer wasnt in 
Ms Ms best interests.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And 
Quilter has argued that the Investigator overstated the importance of this and that the 
transfer was suitable and in Ms Ms best interests, because it allowed her to meet important 
objectives, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
The main purpose of a pension is though to provide benefits in retirement to the pension 
holder. And given, as Ive set out, the transfer meant Ms M was always likely to receive 
overall benefits of a substantially lower value, I do consider this to be important. I have 
though thought carefully about the other reasons for transferring Quilter has mentioned.
Flexibility and income needs
Quilter has said that Ms M needed to take TFC immediately to clear her debts (totalling 
£43,500) and that she intended to use the residual funds to carry out some home 
improvements. And it says Ms M needed flexibility regarding her income. It says she had 
agreed she needed an income of £12,000 per year. So, she required more income from her 
pension between the point of advice and age 66  while she was not earning  with her then 
being able to reduce how much she was drawing from this pension when her state pension 
became payable. So, it thinks the recommendation was in her best interests as Ms Ms 
needs could not have been met through her existing scheme.
I havent seen anything that suggests Ms M was in arrears with any of her debts. But it 
hasnt been disputed that Ms M had left work to provide care for her mother and so her 
income had dramatically decreased. And I think it is reasonable to assume, given what was 
recorded about her income, that while she mayve been up to date with payments at the 
point of the advice, she mayve begun struggling with repayments in the short term. And 
given her financial situation, I think she likely did have an imminent need to clear her 
outstanding debt. I also dont see any reason to question the income Ms M said she 
expected to need in retirement. But, as Ill explain, I dont agree this means she needed to 
transfer her pension or that doing so was in her best interests.
Ms Ms need was for £43,500 to clear debts. She said she intended to use the remainder for 
home improvements. But I dont think the need for these home improvements was as 
pressing. And no set figure was recorded as being required for this purpose  Quilter simply 
indicated that Ms M would use whatever was left from her TFC.
Ive seen a copy of the retirement options information from her existing DB scheme. And this 
indicates that, because Ms M was already 63, she couldve taken a TFC sum of £52,930.59 
from her existing DB scheme at the time of Quilters advice. And she couldve also begun to 
draw a guaranteed annual pension of £7,939.60  which wouldve continued to escalate in 
retirement. These figures were briefly mentioned in the suitability report. But were 
downplayed on the basis that the income would cease on Ms Ms death. But I dont think this 
was appropriate.The TFC sum available immediately from the DB scheme wouldve met Ms Ms immediate 
needs of clearing her debt. And still provided a residual amount to make home 
improvements. While this was a slightly smaller than the residual amount of TFC that 
wouldve been available after transferring, I havent seen anything to suggest it wouldnt 
have been enough to address Ms Ms other objectives. And taking this benefit from the DB 
scheme wouldve meant that Ms M still received a guaranteed escalating pension for her 
lifetime.
The annual pension available from the scheme at that point was less than the £12,000 she 
expected to need in retirement. But again, it escalated and was guaranteed. And when 
combined with the £5,400 she was receiving per year from her son wouldve been enough to 
meet her income needs until her state pension entitlement began. And then when the state 
pension became payable, wouldve meant she comfortably received what she needed  
more in fact. And the income was guaranteed, for her lifetime. She wouldnt have been 
required to reduce this just to ensure that the pension pot didnt run out  as she mayve had 
to do under the scheme recommended.  And although she mayve ended up receiving more 
than she needed, that isnt necessarily a bad thing, and certainly is in my view preferable to 
taking unnecessary risk that her pension pot could run out.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Ms M required flexibility in retirement. Im satisfied 
she could have met her immediate needs and her income needs in retirement through the 
DB scheme at the point of the advice. I dont think this was made clear to Ms M. And, I dont 
think recommending that she transfer to achieve the same objectives, thus exposing her 
pension to investment risk and particularly bearing in mind what Ive said about financial 
viability, was in her best interests.
Death benefits
Quilter said that by transferring Ms M was able to leave her entire remaining pension fund to 
her sons  which was her preference as she was divorced. So transferring was again in her 
interests as it achieved this goal. But in response to our Investigators opinion it said this was 
a secondary objective so wasnt as significant a factor in the advice.
The suitability report said that Quilter considered this to be a compelling reason in favour of 
a transfer. So, contrary to what it has now said, I think it did place emphasis and weight on 
this point.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Ms M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Ms M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Ms M about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. She should not have been encouraged to prioritise 
the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over her security in 
retirement. And I dont think Quilter explored to what extent Ms M was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
In addition, the sum remaining on death under the SIPP wouldve been dependent on 
investment performance and would be reduced by any income Ms M drew. And if she had 
lived a long life the impact of this is likely to have been significant. The fact find recorded that 
she was in good health. And Ive seen nothing to suggest her life expectancy was likely to be 
lower than normal. So, there may not actually have been a large sum left and the fund may 
have in fact been depleted, particularly if Ms M lived a long life.   And if Ms M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her children, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, I think Quilter 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Ms M. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Suitability of investments
Quilter recommended that Ms M invest in a specific portfolio. As Im upholding the complaint 
on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Ms M, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Ms M should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and death benefits on offer through a SIPP mayve sounded 
like attractive features to Ms M. But Quilters role was to really understand what Ms M 
needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Ms M was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, which she couldve begun drawing immediately 
and which, alongside the tax-free cash available through her existing scheme and the 
payments she received from her son, wouldve allowed her to meet her needs. By 
transferring, Ms M was very likely, and indeed almost certain, to obtain lower retirement 
benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh this.  
So, I think Quilter shouldve advised Ms M to remain in their DB scheme and begin drawing 
her benefits straight away.
Of course, I have to consider whether Ms M would've gone ahead anyway, against Quilter's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Ms M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Quilters advice. I say this because Ms M was an 
inexperienced investor with a moderate attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of her retirement provision. So, if Quilter had provided her with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Ms Ms concerns about her death benefits were so great that she 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she 
had sought, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. If Quilter had explained 
that Ms M could meet all of her objectives without risking her guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Ms M would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Ms M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Quilter has suggested 
it doesnt think this is fair as Ms M wouldve had the benefit of retiring early and then still be 
compensated as if she had remained in the DB scheme. But for the avoidance of doubt I 
think it shouldve recommended that she take her benefits straight away under the DB scheme. So, I think the regulators redress methodology is still appropriate here  using that 
assumption.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Quilter to put Ms M, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for Quilters unsuitable advice. I consider Ms M would have 
most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Ms M whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for any new guidance / rules to be published. 
She has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Ms M. 
Quilter must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, I think if appropriate advice had been given Ms M wouldve taken benefits (the 
maximum available TFC and reduced pension) under her DB scheme at the point of the 
advice, when she was aged 63.  So, this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Ms acceptance of the decision.
Quilter may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid into Ms Ms SIPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Ms M within 90 days of the date Quilter receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Quilter to pay Ms M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Quilter to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £355,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £355,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Ms M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £355,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £355,000, I would additionally require 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd to pay Ms M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £355,000, I would only require Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Ms M any interest as set out above on the sum of £355,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £355,000, I also recommend that 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd pays Ms M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Ms M.
If Ms M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms M may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman