DRN-3355810
The complaint
Miss B complains Belmont Green Finance Limited unfairly added late payment markers to 
her credit file in respect of two buy to let mortgages. She also complains that Belmont 
stopped offering new interest rate products to existing borrowers at the beginning of the 
covid pandemic.
What happened
Miss B is a professional landlord and derives her income from her portfolio of let properties. 
Miss B has two buy to let mortgages with Belmont. Ill call these Mortgage A and  
Mortgage B. Mortgage A started in July 2018 and was for approximately £348,000. 
Mortgage B started in January 2019 and was for approximately £240,000. Both were interest 
only mortgages.
Miss B says her mortgage interest rate deal on Mortgage A was due to end in July 2020. But 
in April 2020 she was informed by Belmont that it had withdrawn new rate products for 
existing customers in response to the covid pandemic  while still accepting new customers. 
She discussed the matter with Belmont on 15 April and it logged a complaint.
From April 2020 to September 2020  six months  Miss B took a covid payment holiday on 
both mortgages because of the reduced income from her let property.
Miss B says she enquired about a new rate again on 30 April 2021 and was told Belmont 
had started offering new rate products to existing borrowers again around      
February/March 2021. Miss B says Belmont told her it would let her know when it started to 
offer new products to existing borrowers again when she previously called, but it failed to do 
so.
Miss B says she switched product on Mortgage A in May 2021. But the delay in doing so 
meant she had to pay considerably more on that mortgage from July 2020 to May 2021. She 
complained that the additional cost led to her falling into arrears on Mortgage A, Mortgage B 
and a mortgage with a different lender (about which shes made a separate complaint). And 
she complained that it was unfair of Belmont to submit arrears information to credit reference 
agencies under those circumstances, the wider circumstances of the pandemic and a 
serious health issue she had to contend with at that time.
In its final response letter (FRL) of 3 March 2021, Belmont referred Miss B to a previous FRL 
dated 30 December 2020. In that it said it has an obligation to report the status of an account 
once the arrears are equal to or more than one contractual monthly payment by the close of 
business on the last working day of the month. And it was satisfied that its actions in relation 
to arrears reporting on her account for November 2020 were reasonable. But it also looked 
into its reporting for December 2020 and January 2020  which also showed arrears in 
respects of both accounts  and found that they reported those months correctly.
Belmonts letters also referred to other FRLs it had sent. Of those, Belmonts FRL dated     
23 July 2020 (which, in turn, refers to a previous FRL dated 21 May 2020) is particularly 
relevant here because it deals with Miss Bs complaint about Belmonts decision not to offer 
new interest rate products for existing borrowers. In that, Belmont said due to the 
unprecedented events caused by the covid pandemic, it reviewed its lending proposition in 
mid-March [2020]. It said it decided to withdraw all new lending activity and postpone new 
products for existing borrowers. It said it hadnt decided on a date to revisit that so couldnt 
give her timescales, but if anything changes it would let her know.
Miss B referred her complaint to us in April 2021. Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs 
complaint. She said there wasnt anything in Miss Bs mortgage offer that said she would be 
entitled to a new rate when the one being offered expired. And Belmont could withdraw its 
products as long as it treated all its customers fairly. As the withdrawal of its new products 
applied to all its existing customers, she thought Belmont acted fairly.
With regard to Belmonts reporting to credit reference agencies, our investigators said it had 
an obligation to do so accurately. From transaction statements supplied by Belmont, our 
investigator found that partial payments were made for October 2020 and no payments were 
made for November 2020. So as the accounts were more than one month in arrears by the 
end of November 2020, that was reported to credit reference agencies. She said she found 
that the accounts were still in arrears in December 2020 and January 2021 and that was 
what was reported.
Miss B didnt agree with our investigator and asked for her complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. So, her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. When 
responding to our investigator Miss B made several comments that I have thought about. 
One of those was regarding another arrears marker  in respect of June 2021 which she 
said our investigator overlooked. While that happened after Miss B referred her complaint to 
us  and so isnt part of this complaint  our investigator did respond to that point. She said 
Miss Bs direct debit payment was rejected on 28 June 2021 and Miss B did not make the 
payment until 2 July 2021, so there was no payment made in June 2021. As the account 
was therefore one month in arrears in June 2021, that was reported to credit reference 
agencies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Miss Bs complaint, Ive thought about whether it was fair and reasonable that 
Belmont didnt make a new interest rate product available to Miss B when her interest rate 
product on Mortgage A expired. And Ive considered whether Belmont reported information 
to credit reference agencies as it should have done in all the circumstances. Ive also 
thought about whether Belmont should have done more to let Miss B know when it 
relaunched its new interest rate products for existing borrowers.
Belmonts decision not to offer new interest rate products to existing borrowers
There were no contractual barriers to prevent Miss B from exiting Mortgage A when her 
product expired  there wouldnt have been an early repayment charge at that time. But  
Miss B has explained that she was unable to move to a different lender when her mortgage 
rate on Mortgage A expired because that was taken on an 85% loan to value and its rare 
that lenders offer that for buy to let mortgages. So, I understand that Belmonts withdrawal of 
its new product range for existing borrowers left her without options. And shes explained 
that the increase in monthly cost when going onto Belmonts variable was significant enough 
to make paying that mortgage and others difficult. I understand that this is something she 
may not have planned for.However, Miss Bs mortgage offer doesnt promise her a new rate at the end of the offered 
one. And Belmont wasnt compelled by regulation to make new products available to existing 
customers. It is for a lender to decide on the products it offers and how it responds to 
changing market conditions. In this case it chose to withdraw its new mortgage rate products 
for existing borrowers in response to concerns about the covid pandemic. As that applied to 
all existing borrowers  not just Miss B  I think it did so fairly.
Belmonts reporting of Miss Bs account conduct to credit reference agencies
I havent seen that Miss B has actually disputed the payments she made to her mortgage 
accounts in October and November 2020. Ive seen from the transaction lists provided by 
Belmont that she was over one month in arrears on her mortgage accounts by the end of 
November 2020. And that remained the status of both mortgage accounts for         
December 2020 and January 2021.
Ive listened to recordings of calls she had with Belmont in October and November 2020. In a 
call on 27 October 2020, Miss B made a payment on both mortgage accounts so that they 
were under one month for October and didnt register on her credit file. But Belmont told her 
that the balance of the arrears will need to be addressed. And the direct debit will resume on 
28 November so if there are any problems Miss B should call back. Miss B agreed to call 
back to give Belmont an update on her circumstances on 16 November.
Belmont called Miss B on 24 November 2020. Miss B said she needed an arrangement for 
November and December as she was struggling to make full payment. Belmont explained 
that it would need to go through her income and expenditure and she should call back the 
next day to do that. Miss B asked if the direct debit could be suspended. Belmont said she 
could discuss that tomorrow but warned of the possible impact on arrears and her credit file. 
Belmont called Miss B on 26 November 2020. It discussed income and expenditure with 
Miss B and Miss B said she wants only to pay £300 or £200 (which was substantially lower 
than the contractual monthly payment). Belmont agreed to suspend the direct debit so 
payment wouldnt be made on 30 November and explained Miss B will incur arrears fees 
and the account conduct would be shared with credit reference agencies.
I understand from those calls that Miss B was in a very difficult financial position at that time. 
And Ive seen from her submissions that her financial position was impacted by the lack of 
income derived from her let property because of the covid pandemic as well as her health 
concerns. But Belmont did warn her that the action she wanted to take  albeit through lack 
of choice  would impact her credit file.
Belmont was obliged to report to credit reference agencies accurately. Looking at both    
Miss Bs credit file reports and her mortgage transaction lists, I think it has done so. And Ive 
heard that Belmont did tell her the account conduct she proposed would impact her credit 
file. So, I dont think Belmont reported information to credit reference agencies unfairly.
Belmont didnt tell Miss B it relaunched its new rate product range for existing borrowers 
Ive seen that in its final response letter dated 23 July 2020, Belmont told Miss B if anything 
(regarding new interest rate products) changes it would let her know. But it doesnt appear to 
have done so. It launched its new interest rate products in late March 2021 and Miss B 
called to enquire about it in late April 2021.
As the date of Belmonts relaunch was after Miss Bs account went into arrears, I dont think 
its failure to inform her impacted that. Generally, I wouldnt expect a lender to contact existing borrowers about new rates, but in this case, it said it would. So, Ive thought about 
whether this impacted Miss B.
Miss B found out about the relaunch approximately one month after she may have done had 
Belmont informed her of it promptly. But Belmont has confirmed that the application she 
made in May 2021 wasnt actually accepted and she wasnt accepted for a new rate until 
July 2021. Belmont confirmed that Miss B didnt qualify for a new rate product when they 
were relaunched. It explained that its eligibility criteria was that the borrower must have no 
current payment difficulties and no arrears in the last three months. So, the arrears from 
January 2021 stopped Miss C being eligible for a new rate product in March 2021.
As Miss B wasnt eligible for a new rate product before she actually found out about the 
relaunch, I dont think she was adversely affected by Belmonts failure to inform her of it.
Summary
Overall, I can see that Miss Bs circumstances were particularly difficult around the time of 
her arrears and those circumstances made it difficult to make her contractual monthly 
payments. But I dont think Belmont acted unfairly in either its decision not to offer new rate 
products to existing lenders or its reporting to credit reference agencies. And I dont think 
Belmonts failure to tell Miss B of its new rate product relaunch affected her adversely. So, I 
dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about Belmont Green Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman