DRN-2136562
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a package bank account (PBA). 
What happened
In January 2009 Lloyds recommended to Mr D that he change his fee-free bank account to a 
Platinum PBA account costing £17 per month. Mr D kept that PBA until agreeing to 
upgrade his account further to a Premier account in December 2009. 
Mr D has complained about both sales. However, one of my fellow ombudsmen looked at 
the case and at the rules that govern the ombudsman service. He decided that the rules 
meant we couldnt look at the sale of the Premier account in December 2009, because of 
time limits. But, because of the particular circumstances of the case, those rules dont stop 
us looking at the sale that happened earlier, in January 2009. So thats what our adjudicator 
looked into. 
The adjudicator thought the account was mis-sold, in that Lloyds shouldnt have 
recommended a Platinum account when it could have recommended a Silver account. The 
adjudicator thought that the cheaper Silver account would have been more suited to Mr Ds 
likely needs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint about the sale of the Platinum account. Ill explain 
why.
I think Mr D was given a clear choice about taking the PBA, and so it was ultimately up to 
him whether he decided to pay the monthly fee in return for the benefits it gave. And I 
dont think a recommendation of a PBA was wrong. From what hes told us, he could 
potentially have made use of breakdown insurance and travel insurance. These were 
included in the benefits offered by the Platinum account. 
It doesnt matter whether he did actually use the benefits  Im satisfied he knew about the 
benefits and it was for him to decide on whether to use them. 
However, these benefits were also offered in some form by the Silver account, which cost 
£7.95 per month in January 2009  about £9 a month cheaper than the Platinum account. 
And I think the Silver account would have been a more appropriate recommendation, as 
its likely he didnt have a clear enough need for the other higher benefits offered by the 
Platinum account; and hes unlikely to have thought it worth the higher cost, if hed 
understood his choices better. So, I think Mr D lost out by relying on Lloyds actual 
recommendation. 
Lloyds has said it thinks the recommendation of the Platinum account was appropriate 
because it gave a better level of breakdown service and offered family travel insurance 
(whereas the Silver account gave cover only for the account holder and their partner). It 
says that records, from less than a year later, suggest that Mr D was enquiring about 
family insurance. 
But I dont think theres strong enough evidence that the higher benefits of the Platinum 
account were clearly a better fit for Mr D. Given that Platinum was more than twice the 
cost of Silver, I think its most likely that Silver was the better recommendation. 
Putting things right
Lloyds now needs to:
1) Pay Mr D the difference in the fees he paid for the Platinum account, compared to 
what he would have paid for the Silver account. This is from when he started the 
Platinum account in January 2009 until he switched to a different account in December 
2009. 
2) Add simple interest at 8% per year on each of the above amounts, from the date he 
paid the fees to the date of settlement;
If Lloyds is able to work out any savings Mr D has made from holding these accounts and 
it can show these calculations to him, it may deduct this additional saving from any 
compensation that is paid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to 
make the payment according to the calculation I have set out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman