DRN-1685879
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) offered her an increase 
to her credit card limit which they later refused to honour. She believes shes been treated 
unfairly. 
What happened
In November 2019 Barclaycard contacted Mrs P and said they were intending to increase 
the credit limit on her Barclaycard. The letter said if your circumstances do change, 
Barclaycard reserves the right to withdraw this credit limit increase offer.
In December 2019 Mrs P contacted Barclaycard to take them up on the credit limit increase. 
She explained during the call that shed recently increased her credit limit on a card she had 
with another bank, N. 
Barclaycard said they were unable to proceed with the credit limit increase. Mrs P wasnt 
happy with this and complained. She also said she wasnt happy with the service she 
received when discussing the issue with Barclaycards staff.
Barclaycard responded to the complaint. In summary they said theyd conducted a further 
review of their decision, but as they have an obligation to lend responsibly, they were still 
unable to increase the credit limit. They also didnt feel the service theyd provided was 
inappropriate. But they did later offer Mrs P £25 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs P didnt accept this and brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
didnt think it should be upheld. He didnt think Barclaycard had treated Mrs P unfairly, so he 
didnt recommend they needed to do more. 
Mrs P still disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. Ive 
reviewed the reasons our investigator gave as to why he didnt think Barclaycard need to do 
more and I agree with what he said. So I wont repeat everything again. Ill simply provide a 
summary of my reasons for deciding not to uphold this complaint  but my reasoning 
includes what our investigator has already said.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ps account make clear that Barclaycard can take a 
decision to increase, decrease or leave the credit limit the same. And that their decision in 
these cases will consider a range of factors. Barclaycard, like all lenders, also have an 
obligation to lend responsibly. And the letter they sent offering the increase, made clear that 
this wasnt a guarantee and could be reviewed if Mrs Ps circumstances had changed. Ive listened to the calls between Barclaycard and Mrs P and Im satisfied that the call 
handler provided information in a clear fashion. It was again explained that if Mrs Ps 
circumstances had changed between the credit limit increase offer being sent out in 
November and her wishing to go ahead with the increase in December, then this might have 
had an impact on their decision.
Mrs P herself confirmed that shed recently had her credit limit with N increased. So, Im 
satisfied her circumstances had changed and that the decision Barclaycard took when 
declining to increase the limit was fair. So overall, I dont think Barclaycard treated Mrs P 
unfairly when they declined to increase her credit limit, despite having previously offered to 
do so. 
The call handler gave Mrs P some general advice about how to increase her chances of 
being eligible for an increase in credit limit. This included recommending that she paid more 
than the minimum contractual amount each month. I dont think the call handlers provided 
poor service, or incorrectly recorded Mrs Ps responses to the questions theyd asked. 
Barclaycard offered Mrs P £25 as a gesture of goodwill in relation to this matter. I think this is 
fair and if Mrs P wishes to accept that offer, she should contact Barclaycard to arrange this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman