DRN-2021029
 
The complaint
Mr C says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Paydayloansnet) lent to him in a way that was 
irresponsible.
What happened
Paydayloansnet gave Mr C three loans between March and July 2019 which were all due to 
be repaid in two instalments.  
Heres a table showing loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 08/03/2019 05/05/2019 2 £200.00 £150.98
2 06/05/2019 22/06/2019 2 £200.00 £126.34
3 06/07/2019 23/08/2019 2 £200.00 £125.99
Mr C complained that Paydayloansnet shouldnt have given him loans when he was already 
in debt and he had a poor credit score. 
When Paydayloansnet looked at Mr Cs complaint, it said that it had relied on robust systems 
and procedures for assessing his creditworthiness and ability to repay. This ensured the 
lending was affordable and so it didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Cs complaint. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say that it 
was unfair for Paydayloansnet to have provided loans 2 and 3. But our adjudicator thought 
that Paydayloansnet shouldnt have provided loan 1 to Mr C and he set out what he felt 
Paydayloansnet should do to settle the complaint.  
Paydayloansnet disagreed with our adjudicators view about loan 1 and Mr C feels that all 
the loans were unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Paydayloansnet needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Paydayloansnet should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Paydayloansnet was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Paydayloansnet told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr C. It asked him for 
details of his income and normal expenditure and carried out checks on his credit file. It also 
sent us information confirming that Paydayloansnet spoke to Mr C before agreeing loan 1 to 
check that he was happy that the lender could also take into account some extra income 
Mr C had said he could rely on. 
Looking at loan 1, like the adjudicator, I dont think it was reasonable for Paydayloansnet to 
have provided this loan. The information Mr C had declared about his monthly income and 
expenses showed that the repayments hed signed up to make on loan 1 werent affordable 
for him  they cost more money than he had left out of his take home pay after hed paid the 
other monthly expenses he told Paydayloansnet he had to meet.Ive taken into account that Paydayloansnet asked Mr C to confirm that some extra income 
could be included in the affordability assessment  and he said it could. And I appreciate that 
if this income is included in the figures, it might look like the loan was now affordable for 
Mr C. 
But I dont think that Paydayloansnet could fairly and reasonably rely on this income when 
assessing whether the loan repayments were affordable for Mr C. He alone was responsible 
for making the loan repayments and it didnt look like he had enough of his own money to be 
able to do that. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 1.    
Looking at loans 2 and 3, although his take home pay was still the same, thered been some 
changes in Mr Cs monthly spending. Keeping in mind the monthly expenses that Mr C told 
Paydayloansnet about when he arranged this lending, these loans both looked affordable for 
him  it looked like he had enough money left out of his pay each month to be able to make 
the repayments on these loans on top of his other monthly outgoings.
Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mr C took out loan 2 the day after he paid loan 1, 
and there was only a short gap between loans 2 and 3. But hed been borrowing from 
Paydayloansnet for just a few months and hed repaid loan 1 a few weeks early and loan 2 
a few days before it was due. There wasnt anything to indicate that Mr C couldnt repay 
either loan 2 or loan 3 in a sustainable way.
I think that when Paydayloansnet gave Mr C loans 2 and 3, it was entitled to rely on the 
information it had gathered about his circumstances. Looking at what Mr C had told the 
lender and the information it could see on the credit checks it carried out, Ive seen nothing 
to make me think that Paydayloansnet shouldve done more than it did by way of checks 
before lending to Mr C  or that the information it could see shouldve led it to decline 
either of these loan requests.
 
Considering everything, given the repayment amounts for loans 2 and 3, what was 
apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the time and his history with the lender when he 
applied for these loans, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Paydayloansnet to 
ask Mr C for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
There wasnt anything in the information Mr C provided or the information Paydayloansnet 
shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying 
what Mr C said about his finances. 
So Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about loan 1 only. 
Putting things right
what Paydayloansnet needs to do 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 1, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr C the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".D. Remove any adverse information Paydayloansnet has recorded on Mr Cs credit file 
for loan 1.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Paydayloansnet to take off tax from this interest. 
Paydayloansnet must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Cs complaint and Western Circle Ltd 
(trading as Paydayloansnet) should take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman