DRN-3458889
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Soteria recorded a notification only incident while he held a car 
insurance policy with it. 
All reference to the insurer Soteria in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H contacted his insurer Soteria in 2019. He says he called to discuss a hypothetical 
incident that hadnt happened. Soteria says Mr H contacted it to notify it of an incident that 
had happened. 
Mr H says he discovered Soteria had made a record of the incident when he looked for 
quotes after buying a second car. He was very unhappy when the premium quoted went up 
significantly as a result of the recording of the incident by Soteria. So he raised a complaint. 
Soteria said it was correct to make a record of the notification in line with its agreement to do 
so with many other insurers on a central underwriting database. But it found it had recorded 
the incident incorrectly on its own records as an at fault incident. It apologised for this error 
and said it had updated its records to show the notification as a non fault as it didnt receive 
a claim. Soteria paid Mr H £30 compensation for the error. 
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator explained that Soteria had acted 
reasonably as its notes showed that Mr H had notified it of an incident where his car had 
been damaged. But that he didnt intend to claim. As Mr H had notified it of an incident, the 
Investigator found Soteria had correctly noted it on a central database. He explained that 
some insurers take this information into account when deciding a premium  but that this 
differs between insurers.
Mr H didnt agree. In summary he says our handling of the complaint encourages insurers to 
impose undue costs and additional charges onto policyholders. 
So as Mr H didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are entitled to set the premium a customer pays for insurance against its own 
underwriting criteria. This is commercially sensitive information and varies from insurer to 
insurer. This is why when we use comparison sites we see a wide variation on the price 
offered for the same level of cover from different insurers. As this is a business decision 
each insurer is entitled to make, we cannot interfere with the price they set for the risk they 
want to accept.
Like most insurers, Soteria set out under the policy wording that it would share information 
about incidents and claims to a central underwriting exchange database. This database is 
used by insurers to help prevent fraud and to check a customers incident history. 
The database records claims under a number of headings: key in this case being whether 
the incident that was notified resulted in the customers No Claims Bonus (NCB) being 
affected  or allowed. 
Although Soteria recorded under its own records that the incident was an at fault incident, it 
correctly recorded the notification of the incident as allowing Mr Hs NCB. In other words, as 
recognised in the industry, Soteria correctly recorded the incident as a notification only on 
the database which didnt affect Mr Hs NCB. 
Some insurers apply a rating for notification only incidents as they deem the risk to be higher 
than those with no incidents recorded  irrespective of whether a claim has been made or 
not.. Some dont. As Ive said, it isnt for this service to tell an insurer what price its prepared 
to offer for the risk it wants to undertake. But I think Soteria has acted reasonably in making 
a record of the notification. Having reviewed its notes which are from the time when Mr H 
said he called Soteria, I think its more likely than not that Mr H didnt discuss a hypothetical 
scenario with it in 2019, but provided details about an incident which happened. 
I understand Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. But having reviewed the 
information available, I think Soteria acted reasonably and in line with the policy when it 
recorded the notification of an incident following Mr Hs call. And so it follows that I dont 
think it needs to do any more. I think the compensation it paid for the error in how it recorded 
the incident on its own records is fair as this had no impact on the quotes Mr H looked for in 
the open market with other insurers. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman