DRN-2757791
The complaint
Mr M1, on behalf of the estate of his late father Mr M, complains that Halifax shouldnt have 
lent Mr M an interest only mortgage and about a number of issues following Mr Ms death 
and the redemption of his mortgage.
What happened
The late Mr M took out an interest only mortgage with Halifax in 2005. He borrowed 
£135,000 for a term of 7 years. The mortgage was sold by a broker, which Ill call P.
The mortgage was initially on a two-year tracker rate. When that interest rate product ended 
in 2007, Mr M arranged a new interest rate product and extended the mortgage term to a 
further ten years, again through P.
Sadly, Mr M passed away in 2014. This complaint is brought by Mr M1, Mr Ms son, in his 
capacity as the executor of Mr Ms estate.
Mr M1 notified Halifax that Mr M had passed away in late 2016. Halifax asked Mr M1 for 
grant of probate. In 2017, the mortgage term came to an end. Mr M1 has been living in the 
property for several years.
Mr M1 asked that Halifax transfer the mortgage into his name and switch it to capital and 
interest repayment. Halifax said that it would need a copy of grant of probate before it could 
look at making any changes to the mortgage.
In early 2018, Mr M1 complained about the sale of the mortgage. He also asked Halifax on a 
number of occasions for copies of the mortgage offer signed by Mr M and about the checks 
it had carried out before granting the mortgage. Halifax returned some of Mr M1s cheques, 
intended to make payments towards the mortgage, and arrears accrued on the account. It 
said it couldnt respond to Mr M1s complaint about the sale of the mortgage, as Mr M1 didnt 
have grant of probate.
In December 2018, solicitors Mr M1 had appointed to arrange probate contacted Halifax for 
information, which it provided. Mr M1 made payment through the solicitors to clear the 
arrears on the account, and lump sum payments to repay some of the capital balance. He 
asked several times for Halifax to freeze the interest being charged on the mortgage, but it 
didnt do so.
Halifax instructed solicitors to look at possession action in July 2019. Probate was granted in 
August 2019.
In summary, Mr M1 complains that:
Halifax shouldnt have lent an interest only mortgage to Mr M, who was in his 70s at 
the time, and failed to carry out checks on the repayment vehicle for the mortgage.
Halifax failed to provide documents following a data subject access request (DSAR).
Halifax refused to take payments from him, apart from via the solicitor appointed to 
arrange probate.
Halifax acted unreasonably in saying it would take legal action prior to Mr M1 
obtaining probate.
Halifax should have frozen interest on the mortgage while he arranged probate and 
sold other property to clear the mortgage balance.
Halifax failed to provide redemption statements.
Halifax put legal action on hold while we considered the complaint, and the mortgage was 
redeemed in September 2020.
Our investigator thought the complaint about the sale of the mortgage had been brought 
outside the time limits set by the financial services regulator. She didnt think Halifax had 
acted unreasonably following Mr Ms death.
Mr M1 disagreed, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Time limits
The rules set by the financial services regulator say that there are strict time limits for making 
a complaint to our service.
A complaint must be made by the later of:
Six years from the date of the event complained of; or
Three years from when the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, of 
cause for complaint.
Where a complaint is made later than that we cannot consider it  unless the business 
complained about consents (which Halifax hasnt), or unless there are exceptional 
circumstances which explain why it couldnt have been brought in time.
Mr M took out this mortgage in 2005, more than six years before Mr M1 raised the complaint. 
Therefore I need to consider whether Mr M complained within three years of when he knew 
 or ought reasonably to have known  that he had cause for complaint.
Mr M complains that Halifax shouldnt have lent to Mr M1 as he was in his 70s, and failed to 
carry out checks on the repayment vehicle for the mortgage.
The mortgage offers from 2005 and 2007 both clearly state the mortgage is interest only and 
that the balance will need to be repaid at the end of the term. Halifax has also provided 
copies of annual statements, which also clearly state the mortgage is interest only, and the 
remaining term. The statements were sent to Mr M at his correspondence address, which is 
different to the mortgaged address. The contact notes for the mortgage show Mr M was in 
communication with Halifax periodically throughout the term of the mortgage, until he passed 
away. I think Mr M would have understood that he had an interest only mortgage which he 
would need to repay at the end of the term  and this would (or ought to have done) have led 
him to question why it was lent to him if he had no way of doing so.
When Mr M took out the mortgage in 2005, he received advice from P. And, two years later 
when the initial interest rate product expired, Mr M took advice from P again  taking out a 
new interest rate product and extending the mortgage term. Given that Mr M varied the 
mortgage term, I think its likely he understood that the mortgage was interest only and the 
balance would need to be repaid. If he didnt understand what he was sold by P, or Mr M1 considers he received poor advice, that would need to be addressed in a complaint to P. P is 
responsible for ensuring its advice was suitable for Mr M  though Halifax also had to make 
sure it lent responsibly.
 
Overall, I think that Mr M should reasonably have been aware he had cause to complain by 
2007 (if not before), more than three years before Mr M1 raised the complaint in 2018. 
Mr M1 has said he thinks the complaint was raised in time as he contacted Halifax soon after 
Mr M passed away in 2014. As Ive laid out above, the first contact Halifaxs notes show it 
received from Mr M1 was in late 2016. And the earliest record it has of Mr M1 raising a 
complaint about the sale of the mortgage was in early 2018.
I appreciate that it may have taken Mr M1 a little time to sort through Mr Ms paperwork, but 
it still took him almost four years to raise the complaint with Halifax following Mr Ms death. 
Mr M1 has not told us about any exceptional circumstances which prevented Mr M raising a 
complaint sooner. So the complaint about the sale of the mortgage has been made out of 
time Its not in dispute that complaint points about the events following Mr Ms death are in 
time, and Ill go on to consider what happened below.
Parts of the complaint we can consider
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about all the available information and evidence provided by both 
parties to reach my findings.
When Mr M1 notified Halifax that Mr M had passed away, it requested grant of probate, 
which is what Id expect it to do. Mr M1 being named as executor in the will doesnt give him 
the authority to make changes to the mortgage, or to deal with the mortgaged property  
only grant of probate does that.
I think its reasonable that Halifax wouldnt respond to Mr M1s complaint about the mortgage 
until hed obtained grant of probate. Grant of probate is what gives Mr M1 the authority to 
deal with the late Mr Ms estate, and raise complaints on its behalf, not the will naming him 
executor nor the deed of renunciation he provided from the other named executor.
I also think it was reasonable that Halifax required grant of probate before it considered 
Mr M1s request to transfer the mortgage into his name. Mr M1 wasnt the owner of the 
mortgaged property  Mr Ms estate was. And no changes could be made to the propertys 
title  such as transferring it into Mr M1s name  until probate had been granted. Its not 
unreasonable that Halifax wouldnt consider making changes to the mortgage until Mr Ms 
estate and the ownership of the property had been resolved.
I can appreciate why Mr M1 is frustrated that Halifax hasnt provided him with the information 
and documentation hes requested about the mortgage, or following a DSAR. The rights 
under data protection rules to information under a DSAR are only accorded to a living 
person. So I think it was reasonable for Halifax to refuse to provide information under the 
DSAR, as Mr M had passed away. I also think it was fair for Halifax to refuse to answer 
Mr M1s questions or provide the documentation he requested, until he received grant of 
probate, as that is what gives him the right to deal with the estate.
Our investigator thought that, as Mr M1 has now obtained grant of probate, Halifax should 
provide him with the information hes requested. I think thats fair, though Halifax has said 
the information it holds is limited due to the time thats passed since the sale of the mortgage, which isnt surprising or unusual. It may no longer retain the information Mr M1 is 
looking for.
Halifax did respond to Mr M1s solicitors with the information they requested to allow them to 
arrange probate, such as the outstanding mortgage balance, which is what Id expect it to 
do. I can also see it provided a redemption statement to the solicitors on request.
Mr M1 complains that Halifax refused his cheques to pay the mortgage, meaning arrears 
accrued. I see from the mortgage statements that, prior to Mr Ms death, the mortgage was 
paid by direct debit. When Mr M passed away, the direct debit payments stopped. I can also 
see that in 2015-2016, prior to Halifax being informed that Mr M had passed away, payments 
were made to the mortgage by bank transfer. 
Lenders will commonly stop taking payment for a mortgage when the borrower passes away, 
placing the account on hold for a few months to allow the executors to arrange probate. This 
is what Halifax did, and I think it was a fair step for it to take. But placing it on hold means not 
collecting payments; it doesnt mean that interest is no longer chargeable. 
I wouldnt expect Halifax to freeze interest on the account after Mr M passed away, or while 
Mr M1 arranged probate. There was an outstanding balance on the mortgage facility, and I 
think it was reasonable it charged interest on that balance in line with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage  particularly given the time it took to arrange probate.
Halifax returned Mr M1s cheques, which he attempted to use to make payments to the 
account. Mr M1 has provided one of the returned cheques to us, and I see its made payable 
to Halifax with no reference to the mortgage account number. I think it was reasonable that 
Halifax returned Mr M1s cheques as there wasnt sufficient information to allow Halifax to 
apply the payment to the correct account. Ultimately, Mr M1 has been able to make payment 
to the mortgage via his solicitors, and I think thats reasonable.
Its not clear why Mr M1 didnt seek grant of probate for several years after Mr Ms death. By 
the time he appointed solicitors to start the process, the mortgage term had ended and the 
balance was due to be repaid. That was the agreement between Mr M and Halifax.
Mr M1s solicitors had informed Halifax that the plan was to repay the mortgage by selling 
the property, or another of Mr Ms properties, once probate was granted. Halifax placed 
several holds on looking at possession action to allow those plans to come to fruition. During 
that time Mr M1 made lump sum payments via his solicitors to bring down the mortgage 
balance.
Halifax ultimately instructed solicitors to start proceedings in July 2019. I think that was a 
reasonable step for it to take. I say that because by that point the mortgage term had ended 
almost two years earlier, and Mr M had passed away three years before that. It had also 
been several months from when Mr M1s solicitors first contacted Halifax to say they were 
arranging grant of probate, and probate still hadnt been obtained.
Ive considered the invoices for legal costs charged to the mortgage. I dont think the fees 
applied are unreasonably high for the work that was carried out, and I dont consider the 
work undertaken was excessive.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms mortgage. The terms allow Halifax to 
recover the cost of legal work to protect the lenders position. Im satisfied that Halifax was 
able to recover the costs of this legal work by adding it to Mr Ms mortgage balance and I 
dont uphold this part of the complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M1 on behalf of 
Mr Ms estate to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman