DRN-3607529
The complaint
Mr T and Ms T complain that they were mis-sold home emergency cover by Soteria 
Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr T and Ms S have a home insurance policy underwritten by Soteria, which covers their 
homes buildings and contents, amongst other things. 
When they bought the policy, they opted to include additional cover for home emergencies at 
an insignificant additional cost in terms of their annual premium.
They made a claim under the home emergency cover after they discovered a water leak in 
the pipe leading to their boiler.
Soterias agents at first appeared to tell Mr T and Ms T that the claim would be covered. But 
Soteria later told them it wouldnt be covered because Mr T and Ms T have an unvented 
boiler. The policy includes an exclusion for failure of unvented boilers.
Mr T and Ms T made a complaint to Soteria. They felt the exclusion was unclear. They 
wanted Soteria to meet the claim. And they said that theyd been mis-sold the policy 
because it wasnt made clear to them that unvented boilers werent covered.
Soteria apologised that their agents initially indicated that the damage would be covered. 
And they offered £50 to Mr T and Ms T to compensate them for raising and then 
disappointing their expectations. But they maintained that the decision to decline the claim 
was correct. And they said the policy terms were clear.
Mr T and Ms T werent happy with this outcome. They refused the £50 compensation offered 
and brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Soteria needed to do anything more to put 
things right for Mr T and Ms T. She felt the compensation offer was fair. She thought Soteria 
were entitled to decline the claim. And she didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.
Mr T and Ms T disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr T and Ms Ts policy are very clear. The home emergency 
section of the policy contains an exclusion for unvented boilers. The exclusion isnt hidden in 
the small print and its not in any way ambiguous.
The sale of the policy was non-advised. Soteria sent the terms to Mr T and Ms T when they 
bought the policy and suggested that they check that the cover was right for them.
There has been some discussion about the location and nature of the leak. The engineers 
report shows that the leak is from a pressure reducing valve in the pipe which feeds the 
unvented boiler. That valve is an integral part of the unvented boiler system. It would be 
entirely unnecessary if the boiler were of a different type.
Theres also been some debate about whether the boiler had failed. The exclusion 
specifically says Soteria wont cover failure of unvented systems. Mr T and Ms T point out 
that the boiler is in fact still working, but they simply have to ensure they have a means to 
catch the leaking water.
In brief, I dont accept that argument. The unvented boiler system has failed, by any normal 
understanding of that word, in that a valve thats an integral part of the system is leaking 
water. To put it bluntly, if the system hadnt failed, I cant see why Mr T and Ms T would 
have made a claim.
In summary, according to the terms of the policy, Soteria are entitled to decline the claim. 
And Im satisfied the terms were  or should have been  clear to Mr T and Ms T when they 
chose to purchase the policy.
Putting things right
Soterias agent(s) did create a false expectation when they initially said the claim would be 
covered. I can see why Mr T and Ms T were very disappointed when Soteria corrected that 
error and told them they wouldnt be paying for repairs to the boiler.
I agree with our investigator that the £50 compensation offered by Soteria for Mr T and 
Ms Ts trouble and upset is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Because that compensation hasnt yet been paid, I have to uphold this complaint (with no 
change in outcome) in order to require Soteria to pay it now to Mr T and Ms T. But Im not 
upholding the other aspects of the complaint about the claim and/or the sale of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr T and Ms Ts complaint in part.
Soteria Insurance Limited must pay Mr T and Ms T £50 compensation for their trouble and 
upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman