DRN-3372563
The complaint
Mr A complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) has declined a claim he 
brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr A is represented by 
a claims management company (CMC).
Background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr As complaint on 23 February 2022 in which I explained 
I was minded to uphold it. I think the provisional decision is worth reproducing in full, so I 
have done so below:
I wont go into great detail about the background to this matter as the facts are well 
known to the parties involved, but to summarise:
Mr A had a timeshare-like product with a company Ill call C. He was contacted by 
another company, TRAG, who invited him to a meeting to discuss a potential no- win, 
no-fee legal compensation claim against C.
Mr A attended the meeting on 25 March 2017. It was with a company Ill call RAC, 
who were apparently based in Dubai. At the meeting Mr A says he was told he would be 
included in a class action lawsuit against C and he would receive significant 
compensation. He also says he was told he would be released from the timeshare and 
would no longer have to pay for a loan he had used to fund it. Mr A signed a contract 
with RAC, in which RAC agreed it would arrange to release him from his timeshare and 
give assistance and guidance in other legal disputes with C. On that day Mr A made a 
payment on his Tesco Bank credit card of £950. The payment appeared on his statement 
as having been made to RAMCOM in Spain. A few days later Mr A made another 
payment by bank transfer to a bank account in Dubai in RACs name. Including the fees 
for sending the money, this came to £5,614.50.
Some time later, Mr A says he discovered when researching online, that RAC was
perpetrating a scam. He says he contacted C himself and arranged for the surrender of 
his timeshare at no cost, on 17 June 2017. No compensation claim or class action 
lawsuit materialised. RAC gave Mr A some advice about his timeshare loan, but this did 
not result in him being released from it.
In 2019 Mr A engaged his CMC and they made a claim under section 75 of the CCA 
on his behalf with Tesco Bank. The bank declined the claim, stating that the necessary 
criteria to make a valid section 75 claim were not in place. Mr A complained about this 
decision, and the bank rejected his complaint, which he then brought to this service.
One of our investigators recently looked into the complaint. He didnt think the bank 
had treated Mr A unfairly by declining his claim. He agreed the necessary criteria to 
make a successful section 75 claim were not in place. He also thought about whether the 
bank should have considered attempting a chargeback of the card transaction to 
RAMCOM, but concluded it had been too late for them to do so by the time they had 
become aware of Mr As situation.
Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Tesco Bank have attempted a chargeback?
I think our investigator reached the right conclusions regarding the matter of a 
chargeback. A chargeback is a means of disputing a card payment. The process is 
subject to rules made by the card schemes (Mastercard in Mr As case). The rules say 
that there is a limited window of time in which to make a chargeback. Generally this is 
120 days from the date of the transaction or, if a service was meant to be provided by a 
specific date in the future, 120 days from that date.
There dont appear to have been specific timescales mentioned in Mr As contract with 
RAC, so it appears there would have been 120 days to dispute his card transaction, from 
the date he made the payment. By the time Tesco Bank were made aware of the 
problem, that date had long since passed. The bank would therefore not have been able 
to make a successful chargeback and I therefore dont find it surprising, or unfair, that 
they didnt consider one.
Mr As section 75 claim  the DCS agreement
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers a degree of protection when they purchase 
goods or services on a credit card, so long as certain technical conditions are met. If 
these technical conditions are met then they can make a claim against their credit card 
provider in respect of any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the 
goods or services. In this case Tesco Bank has said one of the technical conditions, the 
need for there to be a valid DCS agreement, has not been met.
What having a valid DCS agreement in place generally means is that the person making 
a claim needs to have used their credit card to pay the same company they say has 
breached its contract with them, or misrepresented something to them.
If the payment has been made to a third party then this will often cause the chain of
connections to be broken, and for there to be no valid claim against the credit card 
provider.
In this case, Mr A signed a contract with RAC and it is RAC he says has either breached 
its contract with him, or misrepresented something to him. In order to make his card 
payment on the day, it appears he filled out a form on RACs letterheaded paper. He 
provided personal details and the details of his Tesco Bank credit card. He signed 
underneath the following statement:
I authorise RAC to debit one payment of £950.00 from this card as deposit of the 
balance under agreement number
So it seems Mr A had agreed to pay RAC using his credit card. His credit card statement 
didnt say RAC however, it said RAMCOM followed by the letters ESP (presumably 
meaning Spain) and a Spanish telephone number. In many cases the appearance of a 
different name on a credit card statement means the payment has been taken by a 
different company. But that isnt always the case. Sometimes a company will use 
different trading names for example, but each trading name relates to the same legal 
entity. I think something like that has happened here, for reasons Ill explain.RAC was, according to the contract Mr A signed, a limited company based in Dubai. Ive 
checked the company registers of the UAE (of which Dubai is a part) and RAC does not 
appear on them. A company by this name does exist in the UK but it appears to be 
involved in a different sector. Another company with the same name exists in Hong 
Kong, but is also involved in an unrelated sector. A company with a similar name is 
registered in Spain, and is linked to an individual I will come on to later, but it did not exist 
until some time after Mr A entered the contract. It seems unlikely to me that the RAC Mr 
A dealt with was any of the companies Ive been able to locate, so it seems a distinct 
possibility that it was a trading name rather than a separate entity. There are further 
pieces of evidence which point in this direction, which I will come on to now.
Mr A received a receipt by email after he had given his card details. This receipt came 
from an email registered at the domain name of a well-known payment facilitator which 
Ill call S. Businesses can set themselves up as merchants able to take payments by 
card, by signing up with S. In common with other similar facilitators, S allows businesses 
to choose the description which appears on customer bank or credit card statements, 
when they pay the business by card via S.
The email from S had the subject Your RAC receipt. The sender appeared on Mr As 
email account as RAC. The body of the email was, as the title indicated, a receipt. It 
stated Mr A had paid £950 for legal services. At the bottom of the email was the 
following sentence: You are receiving this email because you made a purchase at 
RAC. A contact number was provided, which was the same number which appeared on 
Mr As credit card statement.
I arranged for enquiries to be made with S about Mr As payment. S explained that the 
company to which Mr A had made his payment was in fact another business I will call 
FSL. S went on to explain that FSL had chosen for itself a trading name of RAMCOM 
and that it had also chosen the name RAC to appear on its receipts.
FSL was registered in Spain. Its sole director, from 2012 until 2019 when it was 
dissolved, was a Ms F. When the company with a similar name to RAC, which Ive 
mentioned above, was formed in 2018, Ms F was the owner and director. Ms F also 
appears in the evidence submitted in Mr As case. When Mr A made the balance 
payment to RACs bank account in Dubai, he replied to the receipt email to confirm he 
had done this. He received an email back from Ms F thanking him for the payment. Ms 
Fs email address appeared as being from RAM and was registered at RAM.com. A few 
days later Mr A received another email from
Ms F. This time the email appeared to be from RAC, registered at RAC.org. Numerous 
later emails Mr A sent to RAC were also responded to by Ms F.
It seems to me that, in the context of Mr As purchase, RAC and RAM/RAMCOM were 
effectively interchangeable. Ms F represented both names in correspondence with Mr A, 
and the credit card payment was taken by FSL, of which Ms F was the sole director. 
According to S, FSL chose the names RAC and RAMCOM to appear on the payment 
receipt and credit card statement respectively.
I appreciate that there is a complex web of companies and trading styles involved in this 
case and the information available is possibly still incomplete. Nevertheless, I am minded 
to make a finding, on the balance of probabilities, that RAC was simply a trading name 
used by FSL. This means FSL would be the supplier for the purposes of the DCS 
agreement. As the credit card payment was made to FSL, there was a valid DCS 
agreement in place.
I will note here that I am aware of other cases where RAM has entered contracts with 
consumers which are very similar to the one Mr A signed with RAC. Ive also seen other 
cases where RAC has entered contracts with consumers and different names have 
appeared on credit card statements. This decision does not set a precedent for those cases, which need to be decided on their individual merits.
Finally, I will also note that although I think RAC was just a trading name of FSL, I will 
continue to refer to RAC for the remainder of this decision.
Mr As section 75 claim  breach of contract or misrepresentation - evidence
Our investigator recently spoke to Mr A to obtain his account of events first-hand, rather 
than through his CMC. Mr A also sent us a large amount of email correspondence hed 
had with RAC after entering the contract.
Mr A said that hed been worried about the annual fees on his timeshare with C and had 
recently lost his job. He was, for reasons unknown to him, receiving phone calls from 
various companies offering to release him from the timeshare and include him in a 
compensation claim. One of these companies was RAC, who he agreed to meet. Mr A 
said RACs representative told him he would get the money back hed been paying to C 
for annual fees, the initial payments hed made for the timeshare, and he would be 
released from the timeshare. Mr A says RAC told him if he didnt relinquish the 
timeshare, he would be charged forever by C, but relinquishing would cost £6,500, which 
he was happy to pay considering the large amount of compensation he could potentially 
claim. Mr A says he was also told he would not have to keep paying for a loan which had 
been arranged to pay for the timeshare, which gave him some added confidence in going 
ahead despite the price.
After paying RAC, Mr A says he didnt hear from them for a while. When he made 
enquiries about progress, he says he was told he would be released from his timeshare 
in due course and that the compensation claim would take time because it was a group 
action. Mr A says he continued to receive calls from other companies, one of which 
asked him if hed checked if RAC were a legitimate firm. He says he then carried out 
research into RAC, which led him to believe they were not to be trusted, and also 
discovered he could simply send a letter to C to relinquish his timeshare, which he did as 
he his annual fees were due soon. C confirmed that his timeshare was suspended but 
could be activated again.
Mr A said he believed RAC might still pursue the compensation claim so he chased them 
in early 2018, but did not receive any meaningful updates.
Its apparent from Mr As correspondence with RAC, that he believed he was purchasing
more than just a timeshare disposal service. He was also under the impression that RAC 
were pursuing a compensation claim for him, and that they would be getting him out of a 
loan he had used to purchase his timeshare and which he was still repaying. There are a 
number of emails between him and Ms F on these subjects.
In June 2017, for example, Mr A wrote the following to Ms F:
At our meeting with the advisor, we were advised that as we still had an outstanding 
loan / finance for the payment of our [C] membership; once we cancelled our 
membership we should no longer have to continue to pay the loan. I hope this is correct. 
How do we go about doing this? Please would you give instructions on how to approach 
the finance company.
Mr A also asked for an update on the compensation claim. When Ms F replied, she did 
not deny that Mr A had been advised that he would no longer have to pay for his loan, or 
that there was a compensation claim being taken forward. She advised there were no 
updates at the moment about the claim, and said Mr A needed to send a letter to his 
loan company which said the following:Under EU Law 4/2012 which supersedes Directive 2008/122 of the European Union 
where if a timeshare contract is cancelled and there is a pending finance, the finance 
contract becomes null and void. Please note I will cease payments on the above 
agreement with effect from this date.
Mr As lender didnt agree that this was a legitimate reason for Mr A to stop making his 
loan repayments and began contacting him about arrears. Mr A went back to Ms F for 
advice; she replied that the loan was illegal and that Mr A should send the same wording 
as shed advised before, and ask the lender to explain why they disagreed. It appears Mr 
As lender explained to him that the law hed quoted acted as a kind of cooling off 
period and it didnt apply at the time he had sought to invoke it. The lender continued to 
pursue Mr A for repayments, and in the end I understand Mr A decided to borrow money 
from family to pay the loan off and prevent further action being taken against him.
I have seen further emails in which Mr A quizzed Ms F for updates on the compensation 
claim. In October 2017 he was advised that we have had no updates for a while and 
mass claims are slow and arduous processes, and in February 2018 Mr F advised that 
it had taken years to sign up members and months and months of preparation per 
person, you will receive updates as and when we have some but there are not many
Finally, I have seen emails between Mr A and a Ms T from RAC, in which Ms T provided 
advice to Mr A on how to exit his timeshare with C. This involved him writing a letter and 
returning his timeshare certificates.
Mr As section 75 claim - conclusions
Based on the evidence Ive outlined above, Im satisfied RAC told Mr A that it could, and 
would, arrange for him to be released from his timeshare and his timeshare loan, and be 
added to a compensation claim. I think he was most likely told that cancellation of the 
timeshare would mean he would no longer have to pay for the loan. And I think he was 
told these things before he agreed to pay RAC for their services, and that they each 
played an important part in him agreeing to go ahead. Mr A signed a contract which did 
not refer to RAC doing all of these things (or referred to them only vaguely), but I am 
satisfied he was told verbally that this is what RAC would do for him.
I cannot see any reasonable basis for RAC to have told Mr A that on cancellation of his 
timeshare through them, he would no longer need to keep paying for his loan. Its 
apparent
from Ms Fs later instructions to Mr A that RAC may have believed that the EU Directives 
referred to meant Mr As loan would be cancelled if he cancelled his timeshare.
The Directives do not have that effect unless a contract to acquire a timeshare or similar 
product is withdrawn from within a short period of time after purchase. So if this was 
RACs belief, I think it was mistaken. The alternative is that RAC was aware that what it 
was telling Mr A was incorrect. For the purposes of Mr As section 75 claim against 
Tesco Bank it doesnt matter which it was. I think RAC made a false statement of fact or 
law when it told him that cancelling his timeshare through them would mean he would no 
longer need to keep paying for his loan. I think Mr A relied on this false statement when 
he agreed to go ahead and enter the contract with RAC, and that he therefore entered 
into the contract as a result of a misrepresentation by RAC.
I think its possible RACs statement that it was going to pursue some form of 
compensation claim for Mr A was also false. I think it may be that RAC had no intention 
of doing such a thing. But further research would be required in order to come to a firm 
conclusion on this, and I dont need to make a finding on this question as I have already 
found RAC made the misrepresentation I referred to in the preceding paragraph.
The effect of section 75 of the CCA is that Mr A has a like claim against Tesco Bank in respect of RACs misrepresentation. I dont think its likely Mr A would have agreed to go 
ahead with the contract but for this misrepresentation. So the fairest remedy in the 
circumstances would be for Tesco Bank to take the actions necessary for Mr A to be put, 
as far as is practicable, into the position hed have been in, had he not entered the 
contract with RAC.
My provisional decision
For the reasons explained above, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint and direct Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC to take the following actions:
1)Refund the amount of £950 paid on the Tesco Bank credit card. This should include 
any interest, fees or charges which have been incurred as a result of the amount having 
been charged to the credit card.
2)Reimburse the amount of £5,614.50, adding 8% simple interest per year* calculated 
from the date Mr A made the payment, to the date he receives a refund.
Ive thought about whether any deduction should be made from this redress to recognise 
the fact that RAC did provide some advice on how Mr A could exit his timeshare. I dont 
think this would be appropriate as it would be difficult to ascertain the value of the 
service, which would in any event have been minimal.
*If Tesco Personal Finance PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I now invite all parties to the complaint to give me any new comments, evidence or 
arguments they would like me to consider, by 9 March 2022. I will then consider the 
matter again before making a final decision.
Mr A responded to my provisional decision to say he accepted it. Tesco Bank said it 
had nothing further to add. The case has now been returned to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party to the complaint has put forward any new arguments or evidence they would 
like me to consider. Having reviewed the case again, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings set out in my provisional decision quoted above. It follows that I consider Tesco 
Bank acted unfairly in declining Mr As section 75 claim, and that it should take the actions I 
outlined in my provisional decision which I will say again for the sake of completeness below.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC to take the following actions:
1) Refund the amount of £950 paid on the Tesco Bank credit card. This should 
include any interest, fees or charges which have been incurred as a result of the 
amount having been charged to the credit card.
2) Reimburse the amount of £5,614.50, adding 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date Mr A made the payment, to the date he receives a refund.
Ive thought about whether any deduction should be made from this redress to recognise the 
fact that RAC did provide some advice on how Mr A could exit his timeshare. I dont think 
this would be appropriate as it would be difficult to ascertain the value of the service, which 
would in any event have been minimal.
*If Tesco Personal Finance PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman