DRN-1742644
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc handled his claim for a refund 
of a credit card payment when his holiday was cancelled.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr B booked a package holiday through a travel agent, H. The holiday 
was to be supplied by Thomas Cook. Mr B paid H with his NatWest credit card. The holiday 
was ATOL protected, meaning that the Civil Aviation Authority would refund Mr B if the 
holiday company  Thomas Cook  were to go out of business. 
Shortly after Mr B made the booking, Thomas Cook ceased trading and his holiday was 
cancelled. 
Mr B contacted NatWest, seeking a refund of the card payment. The bank submitted a 
chargeback request to H, which had taken the payment, and credited Mr Bs account. H 
contested the chargeback request because of the ATOL protection. NatWest accepted its 
position and re-debited Mr Bs account.
Mr B suggested too that NatWest should consider his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said however that section 75 didnt apply, because the card 
payment was made to H, not to Thomas Cook. 
In the event, Mr B received a refund through the ATOL guarantee in December 2019, 
although the payment was made to Mr Bs current account, also held with NatWest. He says 
he wasnt aware of the refund for some time - indeed, not until after hed referred his 
complaint to this service.
Mr B was unhappy about the way the bank handled the matter. He says that he was misled 
about the process, was advised not to send information about his account to progress the 
ATOL claim, was spoken to rudely and wasnt told by the bank about the payment. The bank 
accepted that it could have handled some aspects of the matter better than it had and paid 
Mr B £60 compensation. Mr B didnt think that went far enough and referred his complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but thought that NatWest had done 
enough to put things right. Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says he was unaware when he referred the complaint to this service that he had 
already received a full refund through the ATOL scheme. He says that much of what 
happened could have been avoided if the bank had noticed the payment into his current 
account. That is, in my view, a surprising argument. It wasnt for NatWest to check payments 
into Mr Bs account; its likely too that Mr B provided those account details to ATOL and I 
would expect ATOL to have provided updates to claimants. If they didnt, thats not the fault 
of the bank. 
The chargeback request was declined because of the ATOL guarantee. I dont believe it was 
unreasonable of the bank to accept that and to re-debit Mr Bs credit card account. Its quite 
likely as well that Mr B received a refund sooner under the ATOL scheme than he would 
have done through chargeback, which is administered by the card schemes.
I also agree with the banks comments on a section 75 claim. For such a claim to succeed, 
the recipient of the payment and the supplier against which the customer has a claim must 
be the same legal entity or associates of each other. Here, Mr Bs claim was against Thomas 
Cook but he paid H. 
Finally, Ive considered carefully the service issues that Mr B raised. Having done so, Im 
broadly in agreement with the investigator. That is, I agree that the payment of £60 the bank 
has made is sufficient in the circumstances and I dont recommend that it be increased. Im 
not persuaded that the bank advised Mr B to withhold information from ATOL; in any event, I 
think ATOL was best placed to know what information and evidence it required to progress 
Mr Bs claim.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything more to 
resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman