DRN-4084004
The complaint
Mr P complains about receipt of cheque books on his account with Santander UK Plc 
(Santander).
What happened
Mr P has an account with Santander. In September 2021, he found out he had one cheque 
left in his chequebook. He visited his branch of Santander to order a new one. But he ended 
up with four chequebooks. Santander then stopped three of the chequebooks as a 
precaution, leaving him with one. One cheque for £553.95 was stopped  this was payable 
to his credit card account.
Mr P complained. He said he had visited the branch of Santander at the beginning of 
September 2021 - to ask for a replacement chequebook. This was ordered but didnt arrive. 
He visited the branch again and another one was ordered. On a further visit, Santander told 
him he already had more than 60 cheques still in his possession  in three chequebooks. He 
ended up with four chequebooks.
He asked Santander what was going on  as he wanted to know which chequebook was 
good to use, or not. He had been given conflicting messages by the branch  one member of 
staff said one cheque had been stopped and another said a whole chequebook had been 
stopped. Because the stopped cheque was payable to his credit card, he had to make the 
payment to it using a different account with another bank.
Because of the confusion, he said he couldnt trust Santander not to bounce any of his 
cheques. He found this stressful  as he was finding it difficult to manage his financial affairs 
as a result. He formally complained to Santander on 27 September 2021 but didnt get a 
response.
Santander didnt send a final response as they sent their information to us to assess. Thus 
included:
- A branch testimony from the staff involved. These said that when Mr P visited the 
branch, he was told he had more than 60 cheques in his possession. Because Mr P 
said he didnt have those cheques, they took the precaution of cancelling those 
chequebooks and ordered him a new one. They said this was explained to Mr P at 
the time. They said they had offered to pay Mr Ps bills online in the branch while he 
was there, but he declined.
- Santanders records show that Mr P had three chequebooks in his possession, which 
had been sent on 16 July 2021, 8 September 2021, and 23 September 2021. These 
were considered to be defunct and unused.  Santander told us it was those that had 
been stopped as a precaution. A fourth chequebook was issued on 24 September 
2021 and this was good to be used.
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint. He said Mr P 
had experienced delays in receiving chequebooks since September 2021 and confusion 
about which ones were valid. Mr P had written to Santander several times and hadnt had a 
response. Santander had finally told us (in November 2022) which cheque book could be 
used. He said that it had taken since September 2021 to get an answer  which was too 
long. He said Mr P should be awarded compensation of £300.
Mr P didnt agree. He said the compensation should be £3,000. He asked that an 
ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this was a frustrating experience for Mr P. During September 2021, he visited 
the branch of Santander several times and wrote to both the branch and Santanders head 
office to try to get his situation resolved. I can see from Santanders records that by the end 
of September 2021 he did indeed have four chequebooks in his possession, of which three 
were deemed by Santander to be dormant. It isnt clear how this came to be  it appears 
that it was because several chequebooks were ordered for Mr P when he advised that they 
hadnt arrived. Because of the number of chequebooks in his possession  it was 
reasonable for Santander to cancel these, and that would be normal practice. I say that as 
unused cheques can fall into the hands of fraudsters  and therefore it is a security risk to 
both Mr P and Santander. 
Mr P says he was given mixed messages by the staff at the branch  he said one person 
said one cheque had been stopped, and another said a whole chequebook had been 
stopped. Of course, its not possible for me to say exactly what was said  as I wasnt there. 
But equally, the staff testimony was that they told Mr P that the three chequebooks were to 
be cancelled  and not just one cheque as he has said. And as this would be the normal 
practice, Im persuaded that they did so advise him. And - they offered to help Mr P pay his 
bills online, but he didnt want to do that. And that was a reasonable offer for the branch to 
make.
But  on the other hand, what is clear is that Mr P asked for information from the branch 
about what had happened, and it wasnt clearly spelt out to him what that was. And he wrote 
to the branch and formally complained to Santander  and didnt get any reply. It seems to 
me that it wouldve been reasonable (and quite straightforward) for Santander to confirm to 
Mr P which chequebooks had been cancelled (by reference to the cheque numbers) and 
which chequebook was live and could be used. We wrote to Mr P on 10 November 2022 to 
advise him which chequebook was useable.
Mr P has said he was inconvenienced  as he had to make the payment to his credit card 
from an account with another bank. And he has found it difficult to manage his finances 
given the uncertainty about which chequebook could be used. I understand that - but 
equally, I dont think that using another account to make a payment to his credit card was 
particularly inconvenient  as he said he walked across the road to his other bank to do that. 
And he could use his other bank to pay bills.  And while he has said he doesnt use online 
banking; it was available to him to pay bills and manage his finances  as was telephone 
banking. 
But on balance, I agree with our investigator that Mr P suffered a degree of inconvenience 
which was avoidable if Santander had given him the information much earlier. Mr P has said 
he wants compensation of £3,000, but I dont think thats appropriate. Our service has set 
out some criteria which guides the right amount of compensation to pay. My assessment is 
that this was a simple but avoidable error, which led to some inconvenience to Mr P over a long period of time  but on balance it didnt lead to significant, larger problems which 
involved a much higher level of distress or financial loss. If it had, then a higher amount of 
compensation would be warranted. But as it was, I agree that an award of compensation of 
£300 is appropriate here..
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must:
- Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman