DRN-2724950
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy she was sold by Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited in 1998.  She believes it was mis-sold. 
Miss M is represented in her complaint by a complaint management company (CMC).
What happened
In the spring of 1998 Miss M applied for a mortgage and was sold a with-profits endowment 
policy as the repayment vehicle. The policy had a target value of £31,350 over a term of 
25 years. 
Prior to the policy being recommended to Miss M, the financial adviser took details of her 
circumstances and objectives. Her objective at the time was to buy a property. She was 38 
years old and was a nurse. She had a salary of £9,400 per year and was eligible to join the 
NHS pension scheme. However, she had not done so and was paying £50 per month into a 
personal pension plan shed started in 1987. It had a retirement age of 65. Whilst she said 
she would like to retire aged 60, she expected to retire aged 65. 
Miss M had a £1,000 emergency fund in a deposit account and owned two endowment 
savings plans. One of the policies was due to mature later that year and the other in 2003. 
Miss Ms attitude toward risk was documented as willing to take some risk to potentially 
achieve better returns on any investment.
The reasons why report provided to Miss M at the time of the recommendation detailed the 
discussions that had taken place. It was documented that Miss M was buying her first home. 
She had no life cover provision in place that was suitable to protect the mortgage and 
wanted to do just that. In relation to pension provision, the adviser recommended she seek 
advice to discuss the possibility of joining her employers pension scheme, but Miss M 
rejected that advice as she was happy with her current arrangements. 
Miss Ms main objective was detailed as protecting her mortgage in the event of death. She 
also liked the idea of the life cover policy having an investment element that would give the 
potential for a maturity value in excess of the mortgage debt. The adviser detailed that they 
had discussed both repayment and interest-only mortgages where hed set out the features 
and benefits of each type of mortgage along with different repayment vehicles. It was 
recorded that Miss M had chosen an interest-only mortgage with an endowment policy. The 
report went on to explain that whilst the aim of the endowment policy was to produce a lump 
sum that would be sufficient to pay the mortgage off at the end of the term, along with the 
potential for an additional sum, that was not guaranteed to happen. It said that Miss M had 
accepted some risk that the plan wouldnt repay the mortgage, but wanted to keep it to a 
minimum, so repayment vehicles such as a PEP would not have been suitable.
Miss M was provided with an illustration at the time of the recommendation. This detailed the 
policy had a basic sum assured of £11,945 and a guaranteed death benefit of £31,350. The 
monthly premium was £48.73 for 25 years. It explained that Miss M was guaranteed to get at 
least £11,945 at maturity and then it gave maturity values for the policy based on different 
growth rates. It showed that at the middle growth rate of 7.5% the policy would reach the 
amount needed to repay Miss Ms mortgage. At the lower growth rate, it fell short by over 
£8,000 and at the higher growth rate it exceeded the amount she needed. It was confirmed 
the figures were only examples and not guaranteed  the amount Miss M would get back 
would depend on how investments grew.
The CMC raised a complaint on Miss Ms behalf in July 2019.
Aviva didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. It said the documentation from the time of the sale 
showed that Miss Ms circumstances and objectives were taken into account when the policy 
was sold. It was satisfied the policy was suitable for Miss M in 1998.
Miss M didnt accept Avivas response to her complaint and referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be 
upheld.
The CMC said that it still felt the advice given to Miss M was unsuitable and asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms CMC has said the endowment policy was not suitable for her for several reasons. 
Whilst I accept Miss M was a first-time buyer, that wouldnt mean an interest-only mortgage 
with an investment was unsuitable for her. The suitability of the product is dependent on a 
consumers circumstances and objectives. In this case Miss M wanted to have her mortgage 
paid off if she died and was willing to accept some risk attached to it in the hope of receiving 
more back from the endowment than she needed to repay her mortgage. 
The endowment recommended was generally, even as late as 1998, still considered to 
represent a low level of risk, and so fitted with the level of risk Miss M was willing to take. It 
also provided the life cover she wanted to protect the mortgage in the event of death and 
matured before she expected to retire. In addition, Miss M was told the policy didnt 
guarantee to repay her mortgage and she was given numerical examples of the potential 
maturity value, which included a significant shortfall.
I am satisfied that Miss M was aware of, and willing to accept, the risk associated with the 
endowment policy at the time it was sold. I am not persuaded it was mis-sold to her.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 
27 April 2021. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman