DRN-4219597
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW) terminated the hire 
purchase agreement she had with them and refused her offer to refinance the agreement 
with a guarantor in place.
Miss C is being represented in this complaint by Mr D. However, for ease of reference, Ill 
refer to any comments or actions by either Miss C or Mr D as being made/done by Miss C.
What happened
In November 2019, Miss C was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW. The agreement was for £17,480 over 49 months; with 48 monthly payments of 
£262.93 and an optional final payment of £8,448.77. 
Miss C didnt make the January 2022 payment, although the payments for February to April 
2022 were made. However, the May 2022 payment, and all subsequent payments, were 
then missed. BMW issued default notices on 20 June and 11 August 2022, asking Miss C to 
bring her account up to date. She didnt do this and, on 10 September 2022 BMW 
terminated the agreement. 
In November 2022, Miss C asked BMW to review the termination, asking if she could 
refinance the car over a longer term, and with a guarantor. However, BMW didnt agree to 
this, and they started the process of repossessing the car.
Miss C wasnt happy with what had happened, and she complained to BMW. In their final 
complaint response letter dated 23 January 2023, BMW said theyd tried to contact Miss C 
(by phone and email) on eight separate occasions between February and July 2022, to try 
and discuss the arrears situation, as well as sending her 11 letters. But she didnt put any 
arrangement in place. So, they thought theyd acted reasonably by terminating the 
agreement, which stopped the arrears situation getting worse.
Miss C didnt agree with BMW, and she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for investigation.
While our investigator appreciated Miss Cs financial difficulties, the reasons for this, and the 
stress this put her under; she said that Miss C hadnt tried to put a repayment plan in place, 
even though shed done this for a linked account. So, she didnt think it was reasonable for 
BMW to have kept the account open with the arrears balance increasing, and that BMW had 
acted fairly in the circumstances by defaulting and terminating the agreement.
Miss C had also said she was unhappy with the amount of time it took to speak to someone 
at BMW, or for her calls to be returned; but the investigator said she couldnt see any 
attempts to communicate with BMW following the initial arrears letters. And she hadnt seen 
anything to show her that BMW were aware that Miss C was experiencing financial 
difficulties due to illness, or that BMW shouldve been reasonably aware of this.
So, the investigator didnt think BMW needed to do anything more.
Miss C didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she had made BMW aware of her 
illness and provided copies of call recordings. She said these showed that BMW offered to 
call her back about payment options, after they had been reviewed by a manager, but this 
call back never happened. And, when she chased this, she was told it couldnt go ahead.
Miss C didnt think that BMW had offered her any support due to her illness and financial 
problems, and that she was being harassed by the agent BMW had instructed to recover the 
car. And BMW refused to put the repossession on hold, even though shed asked them to. 
The investigator listened to the calls, and she reissued her view. She said that all the calls 
Miss C had provided took place after the agreement had been terminated in September 
2022. However, in these calls, while reinstating the agreement was discussed, BMW never 
agreed to this and explained it was highly unlikely that it would be reinstated after a manager 
had reviewed the file. So, she still didnt think BMW had done anything wrong.
The investigator also said that, while Miss C experienced long wait times when she tried to 
call BMW after the agreement had been terminated, which wouldve been frustrating, this 
didnt mean that BMW didnt follow their process correctly when terminating the agreement.
Miss C didnt agree with the investigator. And shes asked that an ombudsman make a final 
decision in this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss C was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Miss C was in arrears with BMW. And she 
was £1,314.65 (the equivalent to five months) in arrears, and had received two default 
notices, when the agreement was terminated.
However, I havent seen anything to show me that Miss C made BMW aware that her 
financial difficulties were caused by illness, or that she contacted BMW to discuss her 
arrears and payment options before the agreement was terminated. And while Miss C has 
pointed to calls she had with BMW about this, as explained by the investigator, these all took 
place after the agreement had been terminated.
The agreement Miss C electronically signed on 20 November 2019 is clear that BMW can 
end the agreement early, and consider it to be in default, if Miss C fails to maintain 
payments. And, by Miss C stopping making payments in May 2022, Im satisfied that BMW 
had the right to take this action. However, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) also 
expects financial businesses to treat customers in financial difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration.BMWs case notes show that they spoke to Miss C in January 2022, when she told them she 
had missed the payment as she was short on cash that month. And both Miss C and her 
partner spoke to BMW in January 2022, but at no point was her illness mentioned.
The case notes also show that, from February onwards, BMW tried to contact Miss C by 
email, phone, and letter, to discuss the arrears situation on her account. And they asked her 
to contact them to discuss the situation and discuss a suitable payment arrangement. They 
also gave her advance notice they would be issuing a default notice and asked her to 
contact them to avoid this happening. 
Neither Miss C, nor her partner on her behalf, spoke to BMW about this until 9 July 2022, 
when Miss C emailed BMW to say she had recently moved house, and this was why she 
had struggled to make payments. This contact was only made after the first default notice 
had been issued. But, when BMW called her back about this, the call went straight to 
voicemail. And they received no response from their follow up emails. So, the agreement 
was terminated on 10 September 2022.
Given this, Im satisfied that BMW followed the FCAs guidelines around forbearance and 
due consideration. However, its also not reasonable to expect BMW to allow a situation 
such as this to go on indefinitely. And doing so would only put Miss C in a worse situation 
financially, as payments werent being made and the arrears were increasing on a month-by-
month basis. So, I also dont think that BMW acted unreasonably by terminating the 
agreement when they did.
It wasnt until 28 September 2022 that Miss C told BMW that she had been ill which, along 
with moving home, had impacted her financially. At this point she asked about refinancing 
the car. Ive not seen anything to show me that BMW ever told Miss C this would be 
possible, and even though it was passed to a manager to review, she was told it was unlikely 
the termination would be rescinded. So, I dont think BMW has misled Miss C in this regard.
Miss C has also commented on BMWs attempts to repossess their car. Miss C has started 
making monthly payments to BMW, which is reducing the balance she owes, and shes 
prepared to either refinance the agreement or repay it in full in a few months time, when she 
says she will be able to. As such, I accept that she would find any attempts to repossess the 
car unwanted and unacceptable. 
However, Miss C doesnt have any agreement in place that she can continue to make 
payments and keep the car, nor, to the best of my knowledge, have they agreed to allow her 
to keep the car and clear the amount outstanding by lump sum at a yet to be determined 
date in the future. As such, their repossession agent is trying to arrange to contact Miss C. 
And, while she may not want this to happen, it doesnt make these actions either threatening 
or harassment. And Ive seen no evidence that BMWs contacts were excessive in the 
circumstances.
So, while I appreciate the situation Miss C now finds herself in, and I appreciate that she 
wont agree with my decision, for the reasons stated; I wont be asking BMW to do anything 
more.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman