DRN-4193517
The complaint
Mr J complains that MBNA Limited hasnt refunded disputed transactions on his account. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In April 2023 Mr J received a message from MBNA to say a new credit card was being sent 
to him because his old one was going to expire. Later in April 2023 and in early May 2023 
around £200 of payments were made across five transactions. Mr J noticed the transactions 
and made a claim to MBNA saying he didnt recognise them. MBNA considered the claim 
but decided not to refund them to Mr J. It said that Mr Js personal Identification Number 
(PIN) were used on two transactions before contactless payments were then used for the 
remaining disputed payments. And Mr J had told it that only he knew his PIN and it wasnt 
written down. 
Mr J remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr J hasnt been 
able to explain how a third party couldve used his PIN to make some of the transactions and 
she wouldve expected a third party to spend as much as possible on the account over a 
short space of time  which wasnt the case here. 
Mr J disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he didnt make the 
payments and want them all refunded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Broadly speaking, Mr J is responsible for any payments that he authorised (either by making 
them himself or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised 
payments. The relevant regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 
(PSRs), and Ive considered these alongside the terms and conditions of Mr Js account. 
The key questions for me to decide are:
1. were the payments authorised by Mr J; and 
2. if they werent, did Mr J fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with his obligations 
under the PSRs and/or the terms and conditions of his account?
To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed transactions. It shows 
that the first transaction on 25 April and 01 May 2023 were authorised using CHIP and PIN. 
Before further payments were made on those days and 27 April 2023 via contactless 
payment. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine 
whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr J responsible for the disputed transaction or 
not.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that its more likely than not a third party has managed to 
intercept the new card sent out by MBNA and been able to obtain Mr Js PIN (which he says 
isnt written down anywhere and only he knows it) in order to spend money on the account. 
Mr J said he didnt ask for a new PIN and MBNA has said it wouldnt send out a new PIN 
unless Mr J had requested it. So, even if a fraudster had stolen/intercepted the new card, 
that doesnt explain how any third party would have known Mr Js PIN.
The transactions also take place over a number of days which isnt typical behaviour of a 
fraudster who would normally try and take as much money from the account as quickly as 
possible. So - on balance  Im satisfied Mr J either authorised or consented to all the 
disputed payments here.
As a result, Im not going to ask MBNA to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman