DRN-2879442
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim they made on their travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B left the UK in early February 2020 for a holiday abroad. They were due to 
return on 27 March 2020 but, due to the impact of Covid-19, their flight was cancelled. They 
explained that initially theyd been focused on supporting an elderly relative, who was 
travelling with them, to get home. Mr and Mrs B didnt return home until 17 July 2020 and 
during that time incurred around £10 000 in costs. That included the cost of medication for 
Mrs B, which she needed because theyd got stuck abroad. 
They complained because they said that they havent been able to recover those costs from 
their insurer, despite keeping in touch with them whilst they were abroad and taking steps to 
keep their costs down. AWP issued a final response letter in which they said that the claim 
wasnt covered, because there was an exclusion for epidemics and pandemics. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think it was unreasonable for 
AWP to rely on the exclusion and he also noted that there was no cover for enforced stay. 
So, he didnt think the claim was covered by the policy terms. He also noted that Mr B had 
been emailing the broker, rather than the insurer, and that the general information provided 
to Mr B by the insurer hadnt suggested Mr and Mrs B would be covered for the additional 
costs they incurred.  
Mr B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He didnt think that 
AWP had treated him fairly  he felt that he and Mrs B hadnt been properly informed and 
that theyd been left at a significant risk because they didnt have cover if theyd had an 
accident or illness during their extended stay.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AWP has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions contain a general exclusion which says: 
We will not cover you for any claim arising from, or relating to the following: 
Any epidemic or pandemic.
Whilst Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs B incurred a significant amount of expenses during 
their extended trip abroad Im not upholding this complaint because:
 
The World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic on the 
11 March 2020. Mr and Mrs B werent able to return home as planned due to the 
associated travel disruption caused by Covid-19. Their flights were cancelled and 
therefore they couldnt return home. So, Im satisfied that their additional costs 
(including Mrs Bs regular medication) were incurred due to the pandemic. Thats 
something which is excluded by the policy 
Ive taken into account the other sections of the policy but theres no cover for the 
situation in which Mr and Mrs B found themselves. For example, theres no cover for 
getting stuck abroad, which is often referred to as enforced stay. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B were in a difficult situation. Their immediate focus was 
on getting their relative home, which is understandable. Theyve also explained that 
they understood the British embassy was trying to help repatriate people who were 
left without accommodation or in financial difficulty. As a result they made their own 
arrangements, including arranging cheaper accommodation and using local contacts 
to keep costs down (as they travel to the area relatively regularly). However, there 
was no insured event under Mr and Mrs Bs policy for the reasons Ive explained. So, 
whilst I entirely understand their reasons for making longer term arrangements to 
stay abroad, I dont think AWP unreasonably declined their claim 
Mr B did send updates about their situation. But he wasnt contacting the emergency 
assistance line provided in the policy documents. And, in any event, Ive not seen 
evidence to suggest that AWP made any commitment to cover additional costs or 
said the claim would be covered. Mr B was sent information which said hed be 
covered if he became unwell (provided hed not travelled against Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office advice) 
Mr B feels that AWP withdrew cover after theyd travelled and that they left him at risk 
in the event that either he or Mrs B became unwell. I dont think thats what 
happened. Mr and Mrs B still had the benefit of their insurance policy whilst they 
were abroad, they just arent covered for costs linked to a pandemic or their enforced 
stay abroad. And, in any event, I can only consider what did happen and not what 
may have happened. Mr and Mrs B didnt need to claim for emergency medical 
expenses.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman