DRN-2074298
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited provided him with incorrect transfer 
value quotations over several years.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr W requested a pension quote from Aviva. He was quoted a transfer value 
of £261,014.53. Based on this he requested to transfer his pension in July with the aim to 
retire in September. In August, after all relevant paperwork was received, the transfer value 
was quoted as £221,721.48. 
Aviva explained that the quote in June as well as previous values Mr W had received in the 
years since 2016 had incorrectly shown a much higher value due a system error. They 
offered Mr W £250 for a loss of expectation. After Mr W complained again, requesting more 
background to these errors, Aviva offered him another £450. 
Mr W remained unhappy and complained to this service. He didnt feel Aviva had properly 
addressed his queries. He wanted to understand how this error could have happened and 
stayed undetected over so many years and he requested details of how transfer values had 
been calculated. He found it difficult to believe this was a system error and that it was only at 
the point of transfer that Aviva noticed the issue.
He said he had carefully planned his retirement based on the higher values and a reduction 
of nearly £40k was catastrophic to his retirement plans. He said he likely would have to 
return to work to make up for the valuation shortfall. He wants Aviva to honour the transfer 
value he received in June.
Our investigator asked Mr W, through his representative, what Mr W would have done 
differently if he had received the correct values. He said he was planning to give the tax-free 
cash lump sum to his two children to allow them to get on the property ladder and take 
drawdown income from the remaining fund. If he had known pension values were lower he 
wouldnt have committed money to his children. He said its likely he would have drawn the 
pension as an annuity much earlier. The incorrect values had been rising over time, but now 
he hasnt been advantaged by waiting. He said he could have continued working, an option 
now closed to him as he was self-employed and had terminated contracts and asked his 
clients to seek assistance elsewhere.
During the complaints process, Aviva discovered that Mr Ws quotes had in fact been wrong 
since 2012. So they offered another £150, bringing the total offer of compensation to £850.
Our investigator thought Avivas offer was fair in the circumstances. Looking at the 
information available and the explanations provided by Aviva and their actuaries he was 
satisfied the incorrect values were due to a system error which affected not just Mr W. 
It was clear Mr W had suffered a loss of expectation when his pension value dropped by 
nearly £40k and that Aviva was responsible for this, so there was no dispute he was entitled 
to compensation. 
However, he felt £850 for the loss of expectation he had suffered was fair in the 
circumstances. He didnt think it was likely Mr W would have taken an annuity earlier 
because a comparison between the correct and incorrect transfer values showed they 
fluctuated in the same way over the years. He also thought it was difficult to say that Mr W 
made the decision to wind down his business solely due to the transfer values provided. He 
also noted that transfer quotes made it clear that values werent guaranteed and would be 
recalculated when all paperwork for the transfer was received. 
Mr W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its very disappointing that Aviva didnt detect the calculation error in their systems over 
several years. However, Avivas explanations how this happened are plausible and based on 
the communications Ive seen Im satisfied this was a system error that didnt only affect Mr 
W. I also consider the level of detail in their explanations to Mr W was reasonable. Aviva 
said the error was corrected on 11 July 2019, so its an unfortunate coincidence that the first 
correct transfer value was only provided after Mr W had initiated his transfer. 
Mr W was planning his retirement based on the higher transfer values he was quoted over 
the years and which he kept monitoring. I can understand it would have come as a shock to 
see a drop in value of about £40k and find out about this at the last minute during the 
transfer process. And I understand its now very disappointing that he wont receive this 
extra money. So I have real sympathy for Mr Ws situation. However, the values quoted were 
never available to him nor was he entitled to them. So it wouldnt be fair to ask Aviva to 
honour those incorrect quotes. I would also note at this point that some of the drop in value 
(around £11k) was due to a change in final bonus rates which would have happened in any 
event. So the difference which related to the incorrectly quoted transfer values was around 
£28k. 
This is still a large difference and there is no doubt Mr W suffered a loss of expectation.  
However, on the balance of probabilities I think he would still be in the same situation as he 
is now if he had received correct values throughout the years. Mr W had decided he wanted 
to retire in September and started to wind down his business in preparation. Its possible that 
if values had been lower, he might have decided to carry on working for a while. 
I understand Mr Ws representative said it was impossible now as he had wound down his 
business. But Mr W himself said in his complaint he probably would have to start working 
again, so he obviously considers this a possibility. Equally, I think its also possible that Mr W 
at age 67 had decided generally to wind down his business and would have retired anyway, 
even with lower values. 
Taking everything into consideration I think the compensation offered by Aviva is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Its within the range of awards that we would consider for 
substantial distress and loss of expectation which I think applied here.
 
Putting things right
The total offer made by Aviva of £850 is fair. I understand £250 of this has already been paid 
to Mr W. Any unpaid amounts should be paid to him as soon as possible.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and ask Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr W the 
outstanding offer amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman