DRN-3259604
The complaint
Miss R complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In January 2016, Miss R applied for a credit card from Halifax. It was agreed with a limit of 
£750. Further increases were agreed as follows:
Date Limit
January 2016 £750 (new card)
October 2016 £1,200 (requested by Miss R)
June 2017 £2,200 (offered by Halifax)
Miss R complained. She said she couldnt afford to repay such a large debt, and Halifax 
couldnt have carried out sufficient checks. She was on a low income and now couldnt afford 
to make the payments to the card account. She said she had taken out a lot of other credit 
and Halifax shouldve seen this. She confirmed to us that she only wanted to complain about 
the final increase to £2,200 in June 2017.
Halifax said that Miss R passed their credit checks. These included an assessment of her 
affordability and the other debts she had. They said she was given the option to opt out of 
the offered increase in June 2017 but didnt. When Halifax wrote to Miss R in April 2021  
she was then in arrears.
Miss R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into what had happened. He 
thought Halifax had acted fairly and carried out proportionate checks. He could see that the 
utilisation of the card was fairly low when he considered the borrowing against the credit 
limit, and all payments had been made up to the limit increase  and in a number of months, 
a lot more than the minimum amount had been paid. Miss R  had other debts of £6,600 at 
the time of the increase in June 2017  and this was manageable. He could see from her 
credit report that a lot more debt was taken out after the increase  but Halifax couldnt have 
predicted that.
Miss R didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Halifax 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
So - Ive considered Miss Rs complaint in the light of this guidance. I think its fair to say that 
a limit of £2,200 was a fairly modest one  which means that Halifaxs checks could be less 
than for a much higher limit.
I can see that when Miss R applied for the card in 2016, she said she was employed and 
earning £15,000 a year. She said she was living with her parents and paid no rent  so her 
situation was good. Halifax had the same information before them when they looked at the 
increase in June 2017.
Halifax told us that Miss R passed their credit checks when they offered her the increase to 
£2,200. This included a check on her other debts and their affordability. I can see that there 
werent any problems showing up with her other payments  there werent any arrears or 
defaults, for example.
Ive looked at Miss Rs credit card statements with Halifax. These are important as they 
showed Halifax if she could afford the credit limit. In the five months running up to June 
2017, Miss R used less than 40% of her previous credit limit of £1,200. And she made all 
payments on time  usually she paid off more than the minimum amount each month. In her 
annual statement for the whole year to February 2017, Miss R spent a total of £4,205 on the 
card and repaid £3,834. So  she was paying her way. Also, there werent any late fees or 
overlimit fees for the year  these wouldve suggested there were problems, but there 
werent. So, all this showed to Halifax  she was maintaining the card account well. So  I 
can see why Halifax offered the increase.
Miss R says she had other debts so I looked at those also. In her credit report, at the time of 
the increase in June 2017, she had total other debts of £6,600 with three lenders  but all 
were being maintained satisfactorily. So  it looked like things were OK at that time, and I cant say that this showed there were problems which Halifax shouldve looked into. And  to 
be fair to Halifax, they could only be expected to make a lending decision based on the 
information they then had.
I can see from Miss Rs credit report that she took on a lot of other debt after the increase 
from Halifax in June 2017. Between then and October 2021, she took out over £18,000 of 
additional credit. So  it looks like her problems occurred after Halifax increased her limit  
and I cant hold Halifax responsible for what happened after that time.
And so  while I accept that Miss R will be disappointed by my decision, Im not going to ask 
Halifax to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman