DRN-3633182
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with things 
when she found issues with her car after completed repairs from a claim against her car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Ss car was repaired by an approved repairer (AR) of Admiral following a claim she 
made under her car insurance policy. 
After her car was returned to her, Mrs Ss coolant engine warning light came on. Mrs S says 
she took her car to her local garage who topped up the coolant. A week later Mrs S noticed 
the coolant was empty. She found a wet patch on the ground beneath her car. 
Mrs S returned her car to the AR. They investigated and told Mrs S that the coolant bottle 
had eroded due to wear and tear. 
Mrs S said the AR advised her it would provide an estimate for repairs. But it then advised 
Mrs S that there was a crack in a water pipe. The AR told Mrs S it couldnt order the 
replacement parts need to carry out the repairs. So it said it couldnt provide an estimate. 
Mrs S took her car to her local garage the following day. She said the garage immediately 
noticed the engine was covered in oil, the car had been topped up with the wrong coolant 
and the water pipe was leaking.
Mrs S said the garage advised her to only drive for short journeys. Mrs S arranged for her 
car to be booked in for repairs with the garage and contacted Admiral to tell it what had 
happened. 
Admiral told Mrs S to continue with the repairs and to provide a detailed estimate of the 
works for it to consider. 
Mrs S provided a final invoice for the works carried out by the garage. Admiral considered 
the estimate but said it wouldnt reimburse Mrs S for the costs related to the coolant and 
water pipe. Admiral referred the invoice to an in house engineer and they believed the 
issues were caused by wear and tear. Admirals engineer said if the areas where the coolant 
and water pipe were had impact damage from the incident, the AR would have picked this 
up. 
Our Investigator didnt think Admiral had acted reasonably. He could see from the original 
repair report that parts of the repairs included works to the water coolant. Given the coolant 
leak was noticed a week after Mrs Ss car was repaired, he thought on balance it was highly 
likely the AR was responsible for the issues identified. 
The Investigator thought Admiral had provided a poor service to Mrs S. He thought the 
advice on the in house engineer included for an Independent Assessor (IA) to inspect Mrs 
Ss car - and while that wouldnt be helpful now that the repairs have been completed - this is 
something he thought Admiral should have arranged when Mrs S complained. 
So the Investigator thought the fairest outcome was for Admiral to reimburse Mrs S for the 
costs she paid her local garage to carry out repairs to the coolant, oil engine leak and water 
pipe/pump. 
The total invoice cost came to £621.19 inclusive of VAT and included non-incident related 
works which Mrs S wasnt claiming for. However, the Investigator recommended Admiral pay 
the full costs of the repairs - using £130 including VAT for non-incident related repairs - and 
pay a further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs S had 
needed to take her car to her local garage and the AR a number of times. She was upset 
that the AR returned her car to her with an oil leak and believes it wasnt safe to drive. 
Admiral didnt agree. In summary it says the invoice from the garage doesnt say why the 
work was needed. It says there is no expert contrary evidence provided to show the issues 
were not caused by wear and tear. And so it doesnt agree to reimburse Mrs S or pay 
compensation. 
So as Admiral doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the key call recording between Mrs S and Admiral. Mrs S called Admiral as 
she was very unhappy with the condition her car was currently in. She explained that she 
had taken her car to a local garage shortly after it had been repaired to have the coolant 
topped up. But the coolant was empty within a short space of time and she took her car back 
to the AR. Mrs S said the AR told her it wasnt possible to order the parts needed to carry out 
repairs - and that the repairs were down to wear and tear.
However, Mrs S then took her car to her local garage who were able to immediately order 
the parts. So Mrs S wasnt happy with what the AR had told her. She explained what the 
garage told her it had found. Mrs S said she had booked her car in for the repairs for the 
following week with her garage and raised a complaint. 
The agent put Mrs S on hold to seek advice as to the best way forward. On return, the agent 
asked Mrs S to provide a detailed estimate for the works and images if possible of the 
damage. She said even if Mrs S gets the works completed ,Admiral will review the estimate 
costs and if they can agree, will arrange for the costs to be reimbursed to Mrs S. 
I think it was clear from the call that this was a complaint about the repairs carried out to Mrs 
Ss car. And where an insurer may arrange for the AR to inspect the repairs, Mrs S had 
already taken her car back to the AR and remained dissatisfied. She had also sought the 
advice of another garage. And while she didnt have evidence of her discussions with the 
garage, I think this was the stage when Admiral should have arranged for an IA to inspect 
Mrs Ss car. 
Instead, Admiral said it would consider a detailed estimate from Mrs Ss garage. In Admirals 
response to the view, it says the estimate didnt say what the cause of damage was. But I 
couldnt hear the agent tell Mrs S that Admiral needed this. And in any event, it isnt unusual 
for a garage to ask for a fee to provide a detailed report with an opinion as to a cause of 
damage. I dont think it was fair to ask Mrs S to provide this at this stage. I think Admiral 
should have instructed an IA. 
I agree that arranging for an inspection after the repairs have been completed is of no 
benefit to either party. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that the 
issues relating to the water coolant and engine leak were incident related - or caused by the 
AR. From the original repair report it lists works carried out to these areas of Mrs Ss car by the AR. And I dont think the in house engineers opinion that the AR would have noticed if 
there was impact damage is enough for Admiral to say its decision is reasonable. I think Mrs 
S provided what Admirals agent asked her to. I think Admiral should have made it clear if it 
wanted a cause of damage - or it should have arranged for an IA to inspect Mrs Ss car as 
this was a dispute about completed repairs. 
So I think a fairer outcome in this case is for Admiral to reimburse Mrs S for the costs of the 
repairs she paid for excluding the cam belt repair (which Mrs S hasnt ever claimed for). 
The Investigator thought that the equivalent compensation award of £230 was reasonable 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs S. This was broken down as £100 in 
addition to the £130 including VAT Mrs S had paid for the cam belt replacement listed in the 
invoice. 
I think this is a reasonable outcome to resolve Mrs Ss complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Mrs S for the costs she paid for repairs to her car on 2 February 2022.
Pay interest on the reimbursed amount from 2 February 2022 to the date Admiral 
provides a refund. 
Pay Mrs S £100 in addition to the costs of the replacement cam belt, making the total 
compensation award for distress and inconvenience caused as £230.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman