DRN-3632523
The complaint
The estate of Miss H is unhappy with the way in which Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV)
handled a claim made on her travel insurance policy and medical assistance provided whilst
she was abroad.
Any references to URV include its claim handlers and medical assistance team.
What happened
Miss H had the benefit of a single-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, which
covered the period 12  19 October 2019 (the policy).
Whilst abroad, on a Mediterranean island, Miss H experienced an aneurysm and was
admitted to hospital, where she received urgent medical care. Her family contacted URV
during the afternoon of 13 October 2019 for medical assistance.
Miss Hs health deteriorated to the extent that on 16 October 2019 her family contacted URV
to say that the treating doctor had advised that, once stable, she should be repatriated back
to the UK so that she could be operated on by a specialist medical team  it didnt have the
capability to do that in the hospital she was in.
A family member of Miss H contacted URV on 17 October 2019 for assistance to repatriate
Miss H to the UK. He spoke with a medical director of URV and explained the medical
advice Miss Hs family had received from the treating doctor. The medical director and
treating doctor also had a conversation.
During 17 October 2019, there were several conversations between URVs medical director
and various members of Miss Hs family. The estate of Miss H says URVs medical director
didnt agree to Miss H being repatriated by way of air ambulance. And because theyd been
told by the treating doctor in the hospital she was at that the situation was critical and Miss H
required urgent, specialist surgery  which they were unable to offer  Miss Hs family ended
up arranging and paying for an air ambulance to repatriate her to the UK. The air ambulance
departed the Mediterranean island in the early hours of 18 October 2019.
Prior to the departure, during the evening of 17 October 2019, URVs medical director had
contacted Miss Hs family to confirm that cover had been verified and an air ambulance had
been authorised. He also confirmed that it had found a suitable air ambulance to depart the
following day (18 October 2019) but Miss Hs family confirmed that theyd committed to the
air ambulance theyd booked at a cost of £53,000.
Miss H was transported directly to a hospital in the UK and she underwent urgent surgery.
Very sadly she died a few days later.
The estate of Miss H made a claim under the policy, including the cost of the air ambulance,
Miss Hs unused accommodation costs, airline baggage charges, cost of death certificate,
the cost of Miss Hs brother and dad travelling to the Mediterranean island to be with Miss H
and funeral costs.
URV accepted the claim in part. It agreed to pay £29,310 towards the cost of the air
ambulance  which was the quote it received to repatriate Miss H by air ambulance later on
18 October 2019. By way of a letter dated March 2020, it also agreed to pay some other
costs such as Miss Hs share of unused accommodation costs, medical fee, transaction fees
and hospital benefit under the policy (less the policy excess).
The estate of Miss H says URV hasnt acted fairly. It says URV should pay the full cost of the
air ambulance. But it hasnt disputed the other amounts claimed under the policy which URV
declined to pay. The estate of Miss H is also unhappy with the medical assistance received
whilst Miss H was in hospital abroad and the approach taken by URVs medical director.
URV investigated the concerns raised by the estate of Miss H. It apologised for delays
confirming which aspects of the claim would be accepted and the amounts it would be
paying. It offered £200 compensation for this.
However, URV said the medical assistance team had provided appropriate support and it
didnt feel it should be responsible for the difference in cost between the air ambulance Miss
Hs family had arranged (and paid for) and the air ambulance for which URV had received a
quote.
The estate of Miss H disagreed. It brought a complaint to our service about the medical
assistance provided by URV, the approach taken by the medical director and URVs decision
not to pay the claim for the cost of the air ambulance in full.
Our investigator looked into what happened but didnt uphold the complaint. Overall, she
didnt think URV had acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
The estate of Miss H disagreed. So, the complaint was passed to me to consider everything 
afresh to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in May 2022 explaining in more detail why I wasnt intending 
to uphold the complaint brought by the estate of Miss H. And Ive set out an extract of my 
provisional decision below:
.
The policy says that:
With the prior authorisation of Emergency Assistance Facilities, the additional costs
incurred in the use of air transport or other suitable means, including qualified
attendants, to repatriate you to your home if it is medically necessary. These
expenses will be for the identical class of travel utilised on the outward journey
unless Emergency Assistance Facilities agree otherwise.
So, if medically necessary, the policy does cover the cost of Miss H being repatriated with
the prior authorisation of the emergency assistance team, and up to the policys financial
limits.
Before I set out my provisional findings on this complaint, I want to pass on my sincere
condolences to the family of Miss H during an incredibly upsetting time. I know the estate of
Miss H will be very disappointed but, overall, I dont currently think URV has acted unfairly or
unreasonably during the period of time, it offered assistance to Miss H after being notified
that shed been admitted to hospital abroad on 13 October 2019. And where it has, or might
have done, Im not persuaded this had a material impact on the ability to arrange Miss Hsrepatriation earlier than it did. Ill explain why.
Upon being notified that Miss H had been admitted to hospital on the afternoon of 13
October 2019, I can see that URV promptly requested a medical report from the
treating hospital. Despite pro-actively trying to obtain a medical report on multiple
occasions, it doesnt look like this was received until the evening of 16 October 2019.
I dont think I can reasonably hold URV responsible for that delay, particularly as it
looks like it was proactively chasing the hospital for the report without success. And
until it had a medical report to fully understand the nature and seriousness of Miss
Hs condition, I dont think URV was able to properly assess the available  and most
beneficial - options for Miss H.
The medical report was logged and assigned to URVs medical director at around
8.40am the next morning (on 17 October 2019)  around 15 hours after receipt. Im
conscious thats a long time given Miss Hs circumstances and when our investigator
asked URV why the medical report wasnt assessed more quickly after it was
received (the evening of 16 October 2019), URV has simply replied on 7 December
2021 that this timeframe wasnt unreasonable. Given Miss Hs circumstances, and
that URV operates a 24/7 emergency assistance service, Im not convinced this
timeframe was reasonable. However, it looks like Miss Hs condition was stable and
the treating doctor confirmed later in the morning on 17 October 2019 (the morning
call) - when speaking with URVs medical director - that although there had been a
recent rebleed, the haemorrhage had now probably stopped. And for reasons Ive
gone on to explain further below, Im not persuaded that had the medical report been
logged and considered earlier by one of URVs medical directors, this wouldve
resulted in URV being able to secure a suitable air ambulance earlier than it did.
During the morning call, URVs medical director spoke to a family member of Miss H
 who was at the hospital with her  to discuss the advice of the treating doctor to
repatriate Miss H back to the UK for specialist surgery. I appreciate the treating
doctor wanted Miss H to be urgently repatriated back to the UK. However, I dont
think that automatically means URV acted unfairly or unreasonably by not
immediately booking an air ambulance for her to be repatriated on 17 October 2019.
During the morning call URVs medical director was passed over to speak with the
treating doctor directly. The treating doctor discussed why it wasnt possible, at that
time, to transport Miss H by air to a hospital on the mainland to be operated on  as
wouldve been the ordinary course of action for local citizen. The difference in flight
time between transporting Miss H to the mainland and back to the UK was around
three hours; one hour to a large city on the mainland as opposed to a flight time of
around four hours to the UK. The medical director was concerned that given the
nature of Miss Hs condition, a longer flight would carry significantly more risk and he
explained why. Having listened to the call recording, Im satisfied that URVs medical
directors concerns were genuinely held and he was exploring the possibility of Miss
H being transferred to a hospital on the mainland, which he considered carried less
risk. Although not ultimately pursued, I dont think it was unreasonable to explore
this option. And I dont think exploring this option during the phone call ultimately
delayed matters.
During subsequent calls between URVs medical director and Miss Hs family on 17
October 2019, there were discussions about different types of air ambulances that
can be used to repatriate Miss H, the importance of having a medical team with
sufficient experience on board to treat her should her condition deteriorate furtherduring the flight and the risks involved. However, during the second call with URVs
medical director (timed at around 12:20), a family member of Miss H confirmed that
the family did want to proceed with repatriating Miss H by air ambulance. And Im
satisfied, having listened to this call, URVs medical director said hed make his
recommendations from a medical perspective but the ultimate decision as to whether
URV would arrange for Miss H to be repatriated by air ambulance would be taken by
somebody else at URV. I dont think thats unreasonable.
Further, URV was concerned that when making a medical declaration before taking
out the policy, questions may not have been answered questions correctly on Miss
Hs behalf. As it transpired, and after talking through Miss Hs medical history with
her family on 17 October 2019, URV did verify cover later in the day. But I dont think
it was unreasonable for URV to initially question the way in which a particular
question was answered given the medical condition declared on the schedule of
insurance. And whilst seeking to verifying cover, Im satisfied that URV was providing
active and ongoing assistance as I wouldve reasonably expected it to have done.
I dont think URV acted unfairly or unreasonably by seeking to verify cover under the
policy. I know Miss Hs family are unhappy that valuable hours were spent seeking
information from a UK based GP before agreeing cover and that this was an
unreasonable thing to do given the urgency of the situation. However, its standard
practice for travel insurers to request the GP medical records when a policyholder
falls ill whilst abroad and requires assistance from their travel insurer. Thats so it
can check a policyholders medical history (usually against the medical declarations
made when the policy was taken out) before verifying a claim. Although, Miss H had
declared a particular condition when the policy was taken out, I dont think URV has
acted unreasonably by seeking to review her medical history before verifying cover
here.
However, its not clear from URVs contact notes when URV first requested the
medical records from the GP. Nor is it clear whether URV chased the GP surgery (as
it reasonably shouldve in the circumstances) for the medical records before around
14.30 on 17 October 2019  when URV contacted the GP surgery to urgently request
the information. URV has said its possible the original request for the GP records
and chasers to the GP surgery werent saved to its file. But even if that wasnt the
case and the GP records hadnt been requested earlier, on the balance of
probabilities, I dont think that had a detrimental impact here. Thats because URV
still received the medical records by 15:00 on 17 October 2019 (around ten minutes
after contacting the GP surgery) and if it had received them earlier, I dont think it
wouldve materially affected what happened during the afternoon. It wasnt until
around 12:30 on 17 October 2019 that Miss Hs family confirmed in a call with URVs
medical director that they did wish to proceed with an air ambulance despite URVs
medical directors concerns. And, ultimately, from what Ive seen, I dont think it
wouldve resulted in URV being able to arrange for Miss H to be repatriated back to
the UK any earlier than the air ambulance Miss Hs family arranged. The air
ambulance URV couldve secured was due to leave the UK for the Mediterranean
island at 08:00 on 18 October 2019 and depart the Mediterranean island at 15:50
(local time), returning Miss H to the UK.
Having listened to calls on 17 October 2019, I dont agree that Miss Hs family was
told that URV wouldnt agree to repatriate Miss H by way of air ambulance. As set out
above, they were advised of the risks and potential timescales to locate the right type
of air ambulance (depending on availability), arrange suitable medical staff to be on
board and to finalise a manifesto. I can, of course, understand why Miss Hs familywas so worried and anxious; they were being told by the treating doctor that Miss H
required urgent treatment (which the treating hospital were unable to provide) and
when speaking with URVs medical director, were being told of the risks from an
aviation perspective of repatriating her to the UK by air ambulance. I can see why
they may have interpreted URVs behaviour as being obstructive or that URV was
using delaying tactics. Im not medically trained but I dont think URV acted
unreasonably by weighing up the risks of repatriating Miss H to the UK or
unreasonably delayed exploring repatriation. I think it was reasonable for URV to
consider the totality of the information available when weighing up the best course of
action for Miss H. That included weighing up the medical update it received from the
treating doctor on the morning of 17 October 2019; the type of haemorrhage Miss H
had experienced and the fact that shed been deemed fit to fly by the treating doctor -
with the inherent risks of flying with the haemorrhage Miss H had experienced and
the best type of aircraft and medical team URV advised she required during the flight
home. And having considered the calls and the risks being contemplated by URV, I
dont think URV unfairly or unreasonably delayed Miss Hs repatriation.
Im satisfied that in two calls during the afternoon of 17 October 2019, Miss Hs family
was told by URVs medical director that URV was in the process of obtaining quotes
for air ambulances. And having looked at the contact notes  and having seen the
quotes they obtained dated 17 October 2019 - Im satisfied thats the case. Miss Hs
family was also told that they were free to arrange and pay for the air ambulance
themselves. Although, the family was told it wasnt advisable to go down this route
(particularly as URV was concerned about securing the right type of aircraft and a
suitably qualified medical team in case Miss H took a further turn for the worst during
the flight), they were told during a call timed at around 14:30 that if they did arrange
the flight home themselves, URV would meet the cost of the flight up to the amount it
would be able to secure the air ambulance for.
During a call timed at 16:35, Miss Hs family was told that there was still no definitive
timetable for repatriation but that the medical director was confident URV would get
Miss H back to the UK. At that stage, I dont think URV acted unreasonably by not
being able to give a definitive timeframe as to when it would be in a position to
secure a suitable air ambulance to repatriate Miss H. Im satisfied that it was trying to
obtain quotes and details of aircrafts but there were factors outside of its control
meaning that it wouldve been inappropriate to give assurances that it would be able
to repatriate Miss H by a certain time/date. I accept what URV says about arranging
an air ambulance being different to booking a scheduled flight which already has a
pre-arranged timeslot  or that specific measures had to be taken to arrange the
safest and soonest flight for Miss H. Based on the evidence Ive seen in this case Im
satisfied that URV was taking appropriate and reasonable steps to repatriate Miss H
within a reasonable timescale.
Miss Hs family did end up arranging a repatriation flight back to the UK for the early
hours of 18 October 2019. Ive thought about whether URV ought reasonably to have
confirmed that it would cover the costs of that flight. And I dont think it shouldve.
Miss Hs family had already been told that if they arranged and paid for a repatriation
flight, URV would only indemnify them up to the cost of the repatriation flight it would
be able to secure for Miss H. So, Miss Hs family was aware before proceeding to
arrange the flight themselves. Further, the type of flight the family had arranged was
discussed during a call timed at around 17:50 on 17 October 2019, between a family
member of Miss Hs and URVs medical director. The medical director explained that
the type of aircraft is overkill and can transport three patients at once. He also
explained that the cost was considerably higher than the quotes URV had obtained
so far, and by how much. The medical director advised Miss Hs family to check thatthe appropriate team was on board to assist Miss H.
When deciding this complaint, Ive taken into account the articles about URVs medical
director, and other comments about this particular medical director - referred to me by the
estate of Miss H. However, Ive placed more weight on the call recordings Ive listened to
from 17 October 2019 between Miss Hs family and URVs medical director  and the
information and assistance provided.
Some of the conversations did make for uncomfortable listening. At times, URVs medical
director provided unnecessary information, showed a lack of empathy for the situation Miss
Hs family found themselves in and asked unnecessary questions about certain family
members professions. However, Miss Hs family members werent named on the schedule
of insurance and so arent eligible complainants in respect of the complaint Ive been asked
to decide. If they had been, I wouldve been minded to direct URV to pay certain family
members of Miss H some financial compensation for distress and inconvenience.
However, despite that, and for the reasons Ive set out above, Im currently persuaded that 
overall - URV acted fairly or reasonably by not securing Miss Hs repatriation before Miss Hs
family had notified URV that it had booked an air ambulance for her.
.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond, proving any further information or comments. 
URV replied saying it accepted the provisional decision. The estate of Miss H replied raising 
a number of points. In summary it said:
There was a time difference of two hours between the UK and the Mediterranean 
island. So when URV notes that a call was made at a certain time, it was two hours 
later in the Mediterranean island where Miss H was in hospital and members of her 
family were talking to him. And when the medical director called at 16:35 to say cover 
had been verified and an air ambulance had been authorised, this was 18.35 in the 
Mediterranean island. The absolute deadline for booking (and paying for) the last air 
ambulance available in Europe that day was 18.00 and thats why Miss Hs family 
was forced to make a booking at 17.45.
The medical director was aware of her treating doctors view earlier on 17 October 
2019 that Miss H had to be repatriated to the UK by air ambulance that day or would 
likely die. There were many hours available for the remaining details to be confirmed 
and a suitable aircraft booked to repatriate Miss H. During the day URV had collected 
relevant quotes and flight details but no action was taken until after Miss Hs family 
had personally booked an air ambulance to repatriate Miss H. An air ambulance had 
to be booked and was available for booking on 17 October 2019.
Theres a wealth of evidence available of URV and its medical director stonewalling 
repeatedly over the making of decisions that would allow critically ill patients to be 
repatriated. URV and its medical director have a reputation for decision-making 
delays over patient repatriation and has apologised in this case for such delays. 
There was a purposive information vacuum in this case; there was undue obfuscation 
and unprofessional delay. I have rejected important contextual information on the 
historical information of URV and its medical director. 
When told by Miss Hs family that theyd been able to book an air ambulance, the 
medical director raised a series of random and specious concerns. Despite the critical nature of the situation, URV put cost ahead of care.
Miss Hs medical team told Miss Hs family that URV hadnt been in touch during 13  
17 October 2019 despite the seriousness of Miss Hs condition.
Even if the medical report was received on the evening of 16 October 2019, URV had 
enough time to repatriate Miss H some time on 17 October 2019. 
The treating doctors said to Miss Hs family that theyd both been trained in the UK 
and were aware of the gulf in treatment facilities between the two countries of the 
type Miss Hs condition would warrant. 
The treating doctors confirmed that the concerns raised by URVs medical director 
(air pressure etc.) were completely bogus. They were personally able to access the 
medical qualifications of the personnel who would be treating Miss H on the air 
ambulance (including both their practical and research expertise, published papers, 
etc.), which were excellent. The so-called concerns of URVs medical director were 
a means of moving the discussion sideways rather than forward, and thus stalling a 
decision on repatriation.
URVs medical director has qualifications in medicine, not aeronautical engineering. 
Miss Hs family say they sought professional advice on the air pressure issue raised 
by URVs medical director from an aviation expert and was told they thought it was 
likely a groundless concern. The treating doctors said this concern was nonsense. 
The crew in the air ambulance also confirmed URVs medical directors concerns 
were completely groundless.  
The estate of Miss H has no recollection of being offered £200 compensation by 
URV. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank the estate of Miss H for taking the time to set out in detail why it 
disagrees with my provisional findings and why it says URV acted unfairly and unreasonably 
in this particular case. 
Im aware that Ive only briefly summarised the responses to my provisional decision, and in 
my own words. But Im not going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. The rules 
that govern our service allow me to do this as we are an informal dispute resolution service. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Secondly, my role is to resolve individual disputes. In considering whats fair and reasonable, 
I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle claims promptly and
fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Having reconsidered everything in light of the further points raised by the estate of Miss H, 
Im not going to uphold this complaint or direct URV to pay anything further in respect of the 
cost of the air ambulance that Miss Hs family arranged to repatriate her back to the UK. 
Thats because the further points raised by the estate of Miss H havent change my 
provisional thoughts as set out in my provisional decision.
The crux of the issue is whether URV unreasonably delayed making a decision about 
whether to repatriate Miss H by air ambulance and whether URV ought to have arranged - at 
its own expenses - an air ambulance to repatriate Miss H to the UK earlier than it did. And 
whether it was clear when communicating with Miss Hs family about what it was doing 
before Miss Hs family decided to book an air ambulance to repatriate to the UK, departing in 
the early hours of 18 October 2019. 
Miss Hs family has said that the medical advice was that Miss H needed to be 
repatriated on 17 October 2019 otherwise its likely she would die. But I cant see that 
reflected in the medical report URV received; it refers to Miss H needing an embolism 
as soon as possible  but I dont think thats the same as providing a medical opinion 
that she needed to be repatriated that day. Further, when speaking with URVs 
medical director during the morning call on 17 October 2019, the treating doctor 
doesnt say Miss H needed to be repatriated to the UK that day or she will likely die.
In my provisional decision I explained that the way URVs director spoke to various 
family members of Miss H couldve been much better and he was needlessly verbose 
during the calls  which I accept wouldve unnecessarily contributed to their worry 
and distress at an incredibly difficult time. Im also conscious of the concerns the 
estate of Miss H has raised about allegations that have been raised about URVs 
medical director in respect of his involvement in other cases and various press 
articles. However, when considering the medical evidence available in this case, I 
think the medical opinion URVs medical director provided on 17 October 2019 is still 
relevant  and its for me to decide how much weight I place on that opinion when 
considering whether URV acted fairly and reasonably here.
From the available information, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the treating doctor 
was seeking to give any expert opinion on the manner in which Miss H should be 
repatriated to the UK or the type of assistance she might require on board an air 
ambulance. 
Although its clear, that the situation was serious, there are other considerations to be 
taken into account before repatriation can take place. Given URVs medical directors 
role, I think I can fairly assume that he has experience in aviation medicine. Im not a 
medical or aviation expert but the considerations raised - and risks identified - by 
URVs medical director during the calls Ive listened to on 17 October 2019 do seem 
fair and reasonable and make sense to me. The estate of Miss H has said that theyd 
spoken to various professionals who disagree with what URVs medical director has 
said but havent produced any documentary evidence in support. So, Ive placed less 
weight on what the estate of Miss H says about the views of the other professionals 
theyve spoken to. And without any other medical information to the contrary, Im 
persuaded by the risks set out by URVs medical director  not withstanding 
allegations that have been made against him in respect of some other cases 
involving repatriation. So, I accept that  given Miss Hs condition - there were inherent risks associated with travelling by air ambulance which URV was seeking to 
mitigate against as much as it could, taking into account the interests of Miss H at the 
time and the medical report reflecting that Miss H should undergo a surgical 
procedure as soon as possible. 
Im also satisfied that before the deadline Miss Hs family says they had to commit to 
booking the air ambulance theyd found, URVs medical director had told them that 
URV was in the process of obtaining quotes for suitable air ambulances and URV 
were checking availability. 
Further, before Miss Hs family finalised arrangements for the air ambulance it had 
secured, they had been told that URV would cover the costs up to the amount URV 
wouldve paid out for an air ambulance (call timed at around 14:30). So, Miss Hs 
family was aware that URV was looking to repatriate Miss H (albeit not within the 
timescale they wanted) and, alternatively, URV would allow them to book their own 
aircraft and would cover at least part of those costs.
Just because Miss Hs family was able to find and book an aircraft to repatriate Miss 
H to the UK in the early hours of 18 October 2019 doesnt automatically mean that 
URV has acted unfairly or unreasonably by failing to secure or approve the type of 
aircraft to repatriate her before then. URV had a duty of care towards Miss H to 
safely repatriate Miss H - taking into account all the circumstances, including the 
urgency of the situation and severity of her condition. 
However, even if Im wrong, and URV ought to have reasonably obtained quotes 
sooner to repatriate Miss H for whatever reason  and Miss Hs family had been able 
to obtain many quotes from air ambulance providers to repatriate her home as Miss 
Hs family said during one of the calls on 17 October 2019  from the quotes 
obtained by URV, the same aircraft was recommended to repatriate Miss M. Only 
one of these quotes reflects that Miss H couldve been repatriated to the UK on 18 
October 2019. Theres nothing to suggest that there wouldve been a similar aircraft 
available to repatriate Miss M earlier than that if any unreasonable delays hadnt 
occurred. 
I dont think URV has acted unreasonably by going through its established and usual 
channels when requesting quotes for air ambulances. And even though Miss Hs 
family was able to locate and book a different aircraft, they hadnt told URVs medical 
director that this particular aircraft was available and theyd booked it until they say 
theyd committed to pay for it. It was during this call that URVs medical director 
confirmed that URV could repatriate Miss H on a different aircraft on the evening of 
18 October 2019.
I can, of course, understand why Miss Hs family didnt want to wait for URV to arrange an 
air ambulance and why they went ahead and proceeded to book an air ambulance at their 
own expense. But for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision (an extract of 
which is set out above and forms part of my final decision), I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to direct URV to do anything further in this particular case.
The estate of Miss H says it wasnt aware of the offer of £200 made by URV in respect of the 
delay in providing a settlement letter outlining the calculations for the aspects of the claim 
that were accepted. For ease of reference, thats contained in URVs email responding to the 
initial complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint brought by the estate of Miss H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
H to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman