DRN-3565818
The complaint
Ms V complains that The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) did not tell her that she could re-
mortgage to another lender within the banking group to access a lower interest rate product
on her mortgages. She says when shed asked for a lower rate previously, shed been told
she couldnt have one. But she has since found out that wasnt the case. Ms V complains
that shes been overpaying on the standard variable rate (SVR) unnecessarily for years as a
result.
What happened
Ms V has two mortgages with TMB, one residential mortgage and one buy-to-let. The buy-to-
let mortgage was taken out in 2006 on an interest rate that tracked the Bank of England
base rate  initially by 0.99% for two years, and then by 1.99% for the remainder of the term.
So Ms Vs buy-to-let mortgage has never been on TMBs SVR.
Ms V took out her residential mortgage in 2008. That was initially taken on an interest rate
that tracked the Bank of England base rate by 1.24% for two years. In March 2010, Ms Vs
mortgage reverted to TMBs SVR, and thats the rate its been on since.
Ms V says she called TMB in 2010 to ask about new interest rate products and was told
there were none available. She spoke to TMB more recently and she was told TMB still dont
offer any interest rate products, but she could apply to re-mortgage to another lender within
the banking group where she could access lower rates.
Ms V complained that she hadnt been told about this sooner. TMB issued a final response
which explained they thought Ms Vs complaint had been made outside of the time limits, as
she called them about interest rates in 2010 which was more than six years ago. They also
said they only started to allow specialist re-mortgages in 2014, and so the information shed
been given in 2010 was correct.
The specialist re-mortgage process meant that, whilst TMB didnt offer any new interest rate
products themselves, borrowers could apply for a re-mortgage with another lender within the
same banking group, without having to go through a full new borrower assessment that
would otherwise be required if they applied to re-mortgage through normal channels. This 
meant that those who may not pass the strict new borrower affordability assessments
undertaken by lenders, may still be able to re-mortgage and have access to cheaper rates.
Ms V asked our service to look into the complaint. She wasnt happy that TMB hadnt made
her aware of the specialist re-mortgaging process earlier. She had been under the
impression that there wasnt any way for her to access a new interest rate product on her
mortgages. As a result, she felt shed been paying the SVR unfairly.
After the complaint was referred to our service, TMB made an offer in order to resolve the
complaint. Although this offer was made without any admission of liability as they were
satisfied they had not treated Ms V unfairly. TMB offered to retrospectively apply the lowest
interest rate products Ms V would have been eligible for on her residential mortgage from
2014 onwards had she re-mortgaged to another lender within the banking group via the
specialist re-mortgage process, and adjust the outstanding balance accordingly. They
agreed to refund any additional overpayments made, and also pay 8% simple interest on the
amount refunded.
Our investigator explained that he thought TMBs offer was a fair way to resolve things. He
also explained that the interest rate Ms V had paid on her buy-to-let mortgage was lower
than any interest rate product she would have been able to get from another lender in the
banking group. Ms V accepted the approach to putting the residential mortgage right, but
she also wanted TMB to pay her compensation for the distress and inconvenience paying a
higher rate than necessary had caused. She gave us detailed information about the
distressing events shed been through over the years, and explained shed had to borrow
money in order to keep up with the mortgage payments.
TMB considered what Ms V had said, but they didnt offer an additional amount to
compensate for the distress and inconvenience Ms V claimed. Our investigator was satisfied
that TMBs offer was sufficient to put things right in this case, so he didnt think they needed
to do any more.
Ms V disagreed. So the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 17 June 2022, and this is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The residential mortgage
By the time Ms Vs residential mortgage had reverted to the SVR in 2010, TMB no longer
offered any new lending or interest rate products. So when Ms V called in 2010 to ask about
new rates, she would have been told correctly that there was nothing TMB could offer her.
Ultimately its up to TMB to decide whether they want to offer any new interest products to
their customers, or continue to offer new lending. The fact that they chose to withdraw from
offering any new lending or products does not mean they acted unfairly.
Whilst Ms Vs mortgage was on the SVR there was nothing preventing her from looking at
what rates were available elsewhere with other lenders, and applying to re-mortgage if she
was unhappy with the rate she was paying with TMB. And Ive taken into account that this
was not just a decision that affected Ms V  she was treated in the same way as all other
TMB customers who were on or reverted to its SVR.
But in 2014 TMBs position changed. They began offering referrals for a specialist re-
mortgage with another lender within the banking group that could offer lower rates. And for
those borrowers who applied for a specialist re-mortgage through TMB, they did not need to
meet the same criteria that other new borrowers of that lender would have to, making it
easier to switch.
Ms V said she wasnt made aware of this process when it was introduced, and if shed been
told about it, she would have applied. She said she was struggling to pay the monthly
payments and had to borrow money from elsewhere in order to keep up with them. She had
previously asked TMB about taking out a new rate. And so Im persuaded that if shed known
about this specialist re-mortgaging process, she would have applied.
TMB have made an offer to put things right. They have agreed to put Ms Vs mortgage
account back into the position it would have been in had she successfully applied for a
specialist re-mortgage in April 2014, when the option first became available. Theyve alsoagreed to refund any overpayments made since then, as well as 8% simple interest on the
refunded amount. Im satisfied that account re-construction and refund is a fair offer to put
things right in this case.
However, Ms V has also explained the distress and inconvenience thats been caused by
having to keep up with monthly payments that were higher than they would have been if
shed re-mortgaged. Shes kindly provided a lot of detail about the difficulties shes faced
over the years, and Im sorry to hear about what shes been through.
When making an award for distress and inconvenience, whilst its important that our service
takes account of the wider circumstances of Ms V and her situation, I can only make an
award to reflect the direct impact caused as a result of any unfair treatment by the lender.
In Ms Vs case, I am satisfied that trying to keep up with the monthly payments on the SVR
caused her some unnecessary distress and inconvenience. She was trying to prioritise the
mortgage payments at a very difficult time for her, and as a result she ended up borrowing
money from other sources in order to avoid going into arrears. She wouldnt have had to do
that if TMB had told her about the specialist re-mortgage process and shed successfully
applied. As a result, Im persuaded that TMB should pay Ms V £500 for the distress and
inconvenience caused by not telling her about her options sooner.
I appreciate this is a much lower amount than Ms V feels is due, and Im not saying that her
overall circumstances during this period of time wouldnt have been very distressing for her.
But as Ive explained, I have to think about the direct distress caused by TMBs error. And
Im satisfied £500 is a fair amount to reflect that.
TMB have also said that in order to take advantage of the lower rates offered through the
specialist re-mortgage process, Ms V will still need to apply. So I would encourage Ms V to
apply as soon as shes able to. My award of redress only deals with the past, when Ms V
was unaware she needed to make an application. But in order to reduce her mortgage
payments in the future, Ms V will now need to make the application to go through the
specialist re-mortgage process to move to the other lender. If she doesnt apply, she will
continue to pay TMBs SVR in the future.
The buy-to-let mortgage
Ms V is also unhappy that she wasnt made aware of her options sooner in relation to her
buy-to-let mortgage. But Ms Vs buy-to-let mortgage has never been on TMBs SVR, and in
fact its been on a tracker rate that has remained lower than a lot of other buy-to-let products
on the market.
TMB have confirmed that there werent any other lenders within their banking group that
offered buy-to-let products lower than what Ms V was paying on the tracker rate. As a result,
Im not persuaded Ms V has lost out as a result of not being told she could re-mortgage
sooner. Im also mindful that this mortgage is on a property Ms V has for investment
purposes. And so if she was unhappy with the rate she was paying, then she was free to
shop around and re-mortgage elsewhere. There was no ERC payable if she chose to
redeem it early.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Im persuaded that TMB need to do the following:
Re-structure Ms Vs residential mortgage account as if shed taken out the lowest
interest rate available to her through the specialist re-mortgage process in April 2014,and the relevant products that would have followed upon the expiry of each one to
date.
Facilitate an application to move her mortgage to the other lender, should Ms V wish
to make an application  enabling her to reduce her mortgage payments in the future.
Once TMB have re-worked the mortgage balance, they should give Ms V the choice of
either:
Applying the monthly overpayments, including any additional compounded interest
since those overpayments were made, to the outstanding mortgage balance to
reduce the overall amount owed. Or,
Receiving the overpayments as a cash refund to her now, with the addition of 8%
simple interest* calculated from the date each overpayment was made, until the date
of settlement.
TMB should also pay Ms V £500 directly for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If TMB considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms V how much
its taken off. It should also give Ms V a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms V said that whilst she thought the £500 compensation payment was disappointing, she 
accepted the provisional decision.
TMB also accepted the provisional decision. They explained that their default position in 
putting things right would be to refund the backdated interest to Ms V, so she will need to let 
our service know if shed like them to adjust the mortgage balance instead.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, and havent provided any further 
submissions for me to consider, my decision remains unchanged.
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision above, to put things right TMB need to:
Re-structure Ms Vs residential mortgage account as if shed taken out the lowest 
interest rate available to her through the specialist re-mortgage process in April 2014, 
and the relevant products that would have followed upon the expiry of each one to date.
Facilitate an application to move her mortgage to the other lender, should Ms V wish
to make an application  enabling her to reduce her mortgage payments in the future.
Once TMB have re-worked the mortgage balance, they should give Ms V the choice of
either:
Applying the monthly overpayments, including any additional compounded interest since 
those overpayments were made, to the outstanding mortgage balance to reduce the overall amount owed. Or,
Receiving the overpayments as a cash refund to her now, with the addition of 8% simple 
interest* calculated from the date each overpayment was made, until the date of 
settlement.
TMB should also pay Ms V £500 directly for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If TMB considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms V how much
its taken off. It should also give Ms V a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct The 
Mortgage Business Plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman