DRN-3400065
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain about West Bay Insurance Plcs (West Bay) handling of their 
claim and the liability outcome following a road traffic accident, under their motor insurance 
policy. 
I will refer to Mr W who has mainly dealt with the complaint for ease of reading.
What happened
Mr W says he was driving down a country lane at around 25mph approaching a slight bend 
in the road when he saw a car approaching from the opposite direction. He manoeuvred to 
the left of the lane and came to a stop. The third-party vehicle attempted to pass by his van 
scraping his offside door and down the side. The front offside wheel of the third-party car 
collided with his offside rear wheel. And then came to a stop four car lengths down the road.
Mr W says the other driver was travelling too fast and was responsible for the collision.
West Bay says that having reviewed the evidence it believes a 50/50 settlement is the most 
appropriate outcome. Mr W didnt think this was fair and complained to the business. He 
provided the dashcam footage, photographs and further comments about how the collision 
occurred. 
West Bay sent a final response letter maintaining its view that 50/50 settlement was 
appropriate. It says in instances like this, where an accident occurs on a narrow country 
lane, previous court decisions have typically been decided on a split liability basis. It says 
this is often a 50/50 split. 
West Bay points to Mr Ws policy terms and says it has full discretion to deal with and take 
over a claim. It says the decision isnt taken lightly and only made once the full 
circumstances of the claim have been considered. It says proving what speed a vehicle was 
travelling at is difficult. It has considered Mr Ws photos to demonstrate distance travelled. 
But it didnt think it would be able to hold the third party responsible for the accident. 
West Bay says it did initially write to the third parties insurer holding it liable for the accident. 
But it received no response. It says it has reviewed the evidence several times but maintains 
its decision is appropriate. It has proceeded on a without prejudice basis so that Mr W can 
pursue the matter via his legal representative if he wished, without prejudicing his position 
that he wasnt at fault. 
The business acknowledged it had provided inconsistent communication regarding the 
liability outcome and didnt respond to all emails. It apologised for the stress and confusion 
this caused and offered £100 compensation. 
Mr W didnt think this outcome was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought West Bay had been fair in how it made 
its decision to settle the claim, in line with the policy terms. He says the business had 
considered the evidence and provided a reasonable explanation of what it thought the 
outcome would be if it went to court. He thought it was fair that West Bay offered £100 
compensation for inconsistent information and a lack of response to Mr Ws emails. 
Mr W didnt think this was a fair outcome. He asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I acknowledge Mr Ws view that the third-party driver is responsible for the accident. 
However, our role is to consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and 
reasonable manner. Its not our role to decide who was at fault for the accident. Decisions on 
who is responsible for an accident are best dealt with by a court of law. 
West Bay says it has full discretion to deal with a claim. I have read Mr Ws policy booklet to 
understand what the terms say about this. The policy terms under the General Conditions 
section say: 
 We shall be entitled to take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim or 
prosecute any claim in the name of any person covered by this insurance.
And:
We shall have discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or in the settlement of any 
claim.
These conditions are typical of motor insurance policies. Its clear from these terms that 
West Bay has the discretion to handle the claim in the way it deems appropriate. But this 
must be done fairly. 
I have thought about West Bays explanation for proceeding on a split 50/50 liability basis. 
It says the accident occurred on a narrow country lane. And although Mr W says he had 
stopped his van at the point of impact, the dashcam shows his van was actually slowing to a 
stop at the time of the collision. Mr W has provided photos showing how long it took for him 
to stop his van. This was from the point the third-party car could be observed driving around 
the bend. He also measured the distance from when the third-party car couldve seen his 
van to the point when the car came to a complete stop. He says this took 62 metres, which is 
far longer than it took his van to stop. Mr W sent West Bay a copy of the stopping distances 
from the Highway Code to support his account that the third party was travelling too fast.
Its clear West Bay considered the evidence Mr W provided, including the dashcam footage. 
But it explained that it didnt think it was possible to prove the speed the third-party car was 
travelling at based on this evidence. It also explained there were no independent witnesses 
to the accident. And explained that decisions made in court involving cases in similar 
circumstances, typically result in a 50/50 split liability. 
I can understand Mr Ws frustration as he believes the third-party was driving dangerously and travelling too fast which caused the accident. But its clear West Bay has considered all 
the evidence before deciding what it considers the most appropriate way to deal with this 
claim. I think the reasons it has set out as to why its reasonable to proceed on a split liability 
basis, demonstrate this. Mr W disagrees with its view, but this doesnt mean the business 
has treated him unfairly. West Bay has proceeded on a without prejudice basis so that Mr W 
can pursue the matter further via a legal route, which I think is reasonable. 
Having considered all of this I think West Bay handled Mr Ws claim fairly and reasonably 
and in line with its policy terms. I dont think it treated him fairly when it didnt respond to 
emails and provided inconsistent information about the liability outcome. But it was fair in 
offering an apology and £100 compensation. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman