DRN-2238347
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) had gone back on a reassurance that all 
legal action to repossess his property would be stopped. He found out at the last minute that 
he was going to be evicted.
What happened
Mr K contacted us to say that he had only just found out he was about to be evicted. 
Mr K works away from home. He cant be contacted when hes away. He had built up arrears 
on his mortgage over the last eight to nine months of around £7,000. Before he last went 
away, he spoke to BoS and explained the situation. 
Mr K said BoS had seemed quite understanding then. It said his account would be passed to 
its priority team who would take into account his situation. Mr K explained he'd be in touch 
when he returned from work and explained he wouldnt be available until then.
Mr K then returned home from work earlier than expected, and found out that the property 
was due to be repossessed within a few days. Mr K said his account had been passed to the 
priority team, as promised, but they had just passed it back to the repossession team. BoS 
then sent him documents in the post knowing he wouldnt be there. Mr K said if he hadnt 
returned home early then the property would've been repossessed.
BoS put proceedings on hold while our service looked into this complaint, so the property 
was not repossessed. 
BoS looked into Mr Ks complaint, and said it could see that hed been told in June 2019 that 
his account would be referred to a different team and all legal proceedings would stop. But 
when it had passed his account over to that team, and the account had been reviewed, a 
decision was taken to proceed with repossession. 
BoS said that Mr K shouldve been told that his account would be reviewed, not that all legal 
proceedings would stop. It paid him £500 to say sorry for this mistake. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr K shouldve 
been told that the team would review whether legal action should be stopped, and get back 
to him. He was expecting all legal action to stop. So she could understand why he was 
distressed when he found it hadnt. But she thought the payment of £500 which BoS made 
was enough to put that right. 
Our investigator also said that Mr K was told about arrears on his account. Those arrears 
generate extra administrative work for BoS, and its common for lenders to add the cost of 
this on to the mortgage. And a business will do legal work in preparation for any possible 
eviction. Mr Ks mortgage conditions explain that those will be added to the mortgage debt. 
Our investigator noted that Mr K hadnt considered himself to be in financial difficulties at the 
time repossession was sought. His work means that his payments to the mortgage have 
been irregular, but our investigator said that Mr K is supposed to make payments each 
month to his mortgage. Each time he misses a payment, arrears accrue on the account. 
BoS had applied for a possession order in 2011. It asked for that to be renewed recently. 
Our investigator said shed checked with BoS, and the time that BoS asked for this order to 
be renewed, the account was in significant arrears. As those arrears were then cleared, the 
order wasnt enforced. 
Our investigator thought BoS had acted fairly. She wouldnt ask it to do any more. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said that because he was told that the bank would stop all legal action, 
he thought that BoS shouldnt charge him for legal work it had done after then. Whether it 
was reasonable or not for BoS to take these steps, it had told him it wouldnt. So it shouldnt 
charge him.
Mr K also said he called BoS on a Friday, a week earlier than agreed, and was told he was 
being evicted the following Tuesday. Mr K said that caused considerable distress, and a lot 
of work. The bank had said the only way to avoid this was to make sure the arrears were 
cleared. There was only a skeleton staff on Saturday and Sunday, so that left him with 
Monday to avoid eviction. He said this only stopped when he contacted our service. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Because no agreement was reached, this case was 
then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall decision on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr K has built up arrears on his mortgage from time to time. He tells us that this is because 
of the nature of his work, which involves periodic payments of lump sums. 
I understand that Mr K has now cleared the arrears on his mortgage, so hes no longer at 
risk of an eviction on this property. 
Mr K wants compensation for the stress he experienced when he came home early, and 
found that eviction proceedings were going ahead. He also wants BoS to wind back the 
clock, so the suspended possession order on his property is no longer in place. And he 
wants BoS to waive all the charges and fees it applied for legal work done after it had said 
such work would be stopped. 
Our service cant undo a decision that a court has taken. So the decision of the court to 
renew the suspended possession order for Mr Ks property cant be changed by what I say 
here. 
Its clear that BoS made a mistake in this case. 
Mr K thinks that the mistake BoS made was going ahead with the legal action, after it said it 
wouldnt. So he says it shouldnt charge him for any of that. But BoS thinks the mistake it made was telling Mr K it was going to stop all the legal action. 
So its just offered compensation for the stress and disappointment he experienced when he 
found out it hadnt done that. 
Ive looked at the position of Mr Ks mortgage account when he was told legal action would 
be stopped, and he did have a considerable amount of arrears at that time. So I think BoS is 
right, the mistake it made was telling Mr K that it wasnt going to go ahead with legal action. 
When a bank makes a mistake like this, that doesnt mean our service will just make that 
bank do whatever its mistakenly offered to. And in this case, I do think it was reasonable for 
BoS to go ahead with its legal action, and renew its suspended possession order at this 
time. 
Mr K doesnt think he should have to pay for this. But, as our investigator explained, Mr Ks 
mortgage terms set out that hes responsible for these costs. They will be added to his 
mortgage. And I can see one solicitors charge of £392 was added to his mortgage on 10 
October 2019. I dont think that BoS has to take that off his mortgage.
I do think BoS needed to pay compensation, to make up for the distress caused to Mr K 
when he found out that legal action was imminent. I think that this would be stressful for 
anyone. But I also recognise that Mr Ks family circumstances were extremely difficult at the 
time that he got this news from BoS. So I can quite understand that finding out about 
unexpected repossession action wouldve caused additional stress on top of that. But I do 
think that the amount of £500 that BoS has sent Mr K is a fair amount for the distress it 
caused. 
I know Mr K will be disappointed by my decision. But, because I think BoS has provided a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, I dont think it should be upheld.
Mr K hasnt suggested to us that hes in financial difficulties at the moment, and I understand 
the arrears on his mortgage have been cleared. But hes also said that the future of his 
industry was somewhat unclear. So, moving forwards, I would like to remind BoS about the 
current FCA guidance for taking action to recover mortgage arrears given the impact of the 
global pandemic. I would expect BoS to continue to treat Mr K in line with this guidance as it 
continues to evolve over time.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman