DRN-4464534
The complaint
I, a limited company, complains that Travelers Insurance Company Limited (TICL) has 
unfairly declined a claim under its Insurance and Risk Management for Property Owners 
policy, following a fire.
For ease of reading, Ill refer to I as Company I. Any reference to Company I or TICL refers 
to respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
Company I owns a property that is insured by TICL. And in 2020, Company I reported a fire 
to the property following an arson attack.
TICL investigated and said the fire was started within an unsecured extension of the main 
premises, which spread across the building. It said the outermost rear door to this extension 
was not secured at all, and the inner rear door between the extension and main property had 
been forced and temporarily boarded the day before.
Following this it declined the claim, saying policy endorsements had not been complied with.
An endorsement under the policy said if the property was unoccupied for a period of 
more than thirty consecutive days  then certain security measures would need to be 
in place  including all external doors to be fitted with good quality locks. It said 
Company Is property was not occupied. And as such these security requirements 
were required. As the outermost rear door was unlocked, it allowed unrestricted 
access to the individuals who started the fire. So, the endorsement not being met 
was material to the claim.
The endorsement required Company I to ensure fire alarms were connected unless 
otherwise agreed by TICL in writing. As well as requirements to ensure they were 
functional. And this hadnt happened as no fire alarm was connected. It said there 
was evidence of a fire alarm system with a break glass panel  yet it had not been 
agreed with TICL that it wasnt in full working order. Again, it said this was material to 
the fire.
Company I disagreed, arguing the property was sufficiently occupied, and there was no 
requirement in the policy terms stating it needed to be slept in.
Company I brought the matter to this Service. One of our Investigators looked into what 
happened and upheld the complaint, saying:
Company I had provided visitation logs that showed the property was visited within 
30 days of the loss, and visited approximately once a fortnight. And in the absence of 
the policy defining unoccupied, he was satisfied the level of visitation was sufficient 
to class the property as occupied. As a result, the endorsements TICL sought to rely 
on wouldnt apply. 
The endorsement related to fire precautions only applied to existing devices installed 
at the property. And while the property had a historic fire alarm in place  this was 
from over 30 years before. Therefore, it wasnt reasonable for TICL to class these as 
an alarm system.
So, the Investigator concluded neither endorsement could be relied upon. And he directed 
TICL to accept and settle the claim. TICL disagreed, asking this Service to reconsider it said:
It had given numerous reasons why the claim had been declined. And that Company 
I had declared the property was not occupied since its purchase several years prior 
to the fire.
In the absence of a specific definition, a standard dictionary definition should apply  
and here unoccupied would include empty, with no one living there or using it.
The Investigators view acknowledged the property was being visited once every 
fortnight. But there was a condition under the policy that required the property to be 
inspected thoroughly internally and externally at least once every seven days.
Company I also provided further submissions.
This included photos of the fire alarm in question and commentary around it which it 
said showed the fire alarm system was obsolete, in a dilapidated condition and 
incapable of being repaired. It also provided other photos of the wiring of the system 
which it said showed whatever it had been connected to within the ceiling had been 
long removed at the point Company I purchased the property. And photos of the fire 
systems control panel which suggested it had been decommissioned around 2012.
It provided emails from 2017 when the policy was first taken out, where it says the 
broker acknowledged to TICL that the property had no alarm and TICL accepted 
the risk on this basis.
It said the policy endorsement related to fire installations TICL has sought to rely on 
would only apply to devices already in place, and not a requirement to install such 
devices if they werent present.
So, the matter was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 31 October 2023 outlining why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. Ive 
included an extract of this below.
In this case TICL has sought to rely on a range of different reasons to decline cover. 
Given the informal nature of this Service, I will focus on what I consider to be the 
most relevant. And simply, if I am persuaded that it has applied any of these 
endorsements or exclusions fairly and reasonably then the others will fall away.
Ill begin by looking at the first of the endorsements TICL has quoted. Ive included an 
extract of this below which states:
Damage in respect of any Building or any property within such Building 
which is unoccupied for a period of more than thirty consecutive dates [sic] 
other than Damage caused by [lists various causes] subject to the 
following Special Condition:
Special Condition - The Named Insured or its Agent shall ensure that
(a) such unoccupied buildings are secured against illegal entry and all 
external doors and accessible external windows are fitted with good quality locks 
(b) all services other than limited services required for security guards fire and 
burglar alarms shall be disconnected unless otherwise agreed by the 
Company in writing
(g) the Business Premises shall be inspected thoroughly internally and 
externally at least once every seven days (or at a frequency agreed by the 
Company in writing) by the Named Insured or a responsible person appointed 
by the Named Insured and a record maintained of such inspection and any 
defects rectified without delay
And it is the above conditions (a), (b), and (g) that TICL has discussed when 
declining this claim. To enable any of these conditions to apply, I must first consider 
whether Company Is property was unoccupied for a period of more than thirty 
consecutive days.
Within Company Is submissions it has been clear that at the time of the fire, no one 
was living at the property, nor sleeping in it. It said this was due to the property being 
semi-derelict and awaiting redevelopment. It said its agents would visit for a few 
hours at a time usually once a week.
The policy does not provide a definition for occupied or unoccupied or variations of 
these terms. So, without a special meaning within the policy, Ill revert to the terms 
everyday meaning, and refer to a dictionary definition. Ive reviewed several 
dictionary definitions and a similar theme across these includes reference to a 
building without occupants.
Given Company Is own statement, I think its evident the property was not occupied 
 and visits to check on its condition as have been described in this case  would not 
persuade me otherwise.
Company I has pointed to a published document from this Service from 2004 which it 
has quoted as this Services published and settled approach, including an extract 
that says: 
so long as the insured property was visited on a reasonably frequent basis, 
then it was occupied, even though the policyholder was not sleeping there 
every night.
This quote followed a discussion regarding household policies  which Company As 
policy is not. Furthermore, for completeness, the follow-on sentence that Company I 
has chosen to omit states:
It is important to stress, however, that we look at the facts of each case on 
their own merits, rather than applying a strict rule.
So, I want to be clear, in the facts of this case there appears to be no dispute that the 
property was awaiting renovation at the time of the fire, and therefore its attendance 
was limited only to Company Is agents checking its condition  that is to say no one 
was sleeping there at all. I dont consider this reasonably amounts to occupation, and 
as a result Im satisfied TICLs conclusion that it was unoccupied for the purposes of 
the property is accurate and fair.
Company I has discussed at this point that TICL wouldve been aware of its position and plans to renovate the property from inception when agreeing to insure its 
property. I take this on board, but TICL is not attempting to say no cover will apply if 
the property is unoccupied, simply that additional conditions will apply as a result. So, 
this doesnt change my mind.
For these reasons Im satisfied the conditions under the respective endorsement do 
apply to Company Is claim. Ill now consider these in turn.
Condition (a) required such unoccupied buildings to be secured against illegal entry 
and all external doors and accessible external windows are fitted with good quality 
locks.
In this instance, it isnt disputed that the entry which the intruders used was the 
outermost rear door. And that this door, was not secured with a good quality lock at 
the time.
So, on its face, it appears that the condition has not been met. And that this access 
was relevant to the claim and the fire itself as it was the entry point that intruders 
used. Ive gone on to consider whether TICL has applied this fairly and reasonably in 
the circumstances.
Company I submits that the property had previously been sufficiently secure as the 
policy requires. But it says two days before the fire one of its agents discovered the 
outside door had been prised open and windows nearby broken. Company I says 
immediate steps were taken to secure the site but due to timing they had been 
unable to obtain all appropriate materials to complete the repair  but had completed 
some repairs by affixing boarding.
Company I says this shows it acted reasonably to keep the property secure both by 
regular attendance, as well as acting quickly to re-secure the property.
Within its submissions to this Service, TICL has quoted evidence from the forensic 
reports which suggests the innermost door had included a good quality mortice lock 
that the fire brigade had removed. This suggests to me the intruders were unable to 
access the main property previously when confronted with this door and lock.
If I consider the several days before the fire when individuals first attempted to break-
in, and the outer door was damaged  Ive been given little by Company I to 
demonstrate the outermost door was sufficiently secured with a good quality lock as 
the condition required. While I acknowledge theres no dispute that Company Is 
agent did affix boarding  this simply doesnt meet the condition. And so, in the 
circumstances and the evidence provided to date, Im not satisfied it is fair or 
reasonable for me to direct TICL to act beyond its policy condition that has been 
breached.
There are other conditions that TICL has sought to rely on. As well as a previously 
lengthy back and forth between parties related to another endorsement related to the 
quality of the fire alarm system. And while I have also considered these within my 
review of this complaint, I do not feel it would be necessary to explore these further 
as Im currently satisfied TICL fairly declined this claim in line with its policy terms.
I gave both parties until 14 November 2023 to provide any further comments or evidence, 
and this time has now passed. 
Company I disagreed, stating:The policy Company I has includes cover for several different sites. And the relevant 
endorsement for this property states:
Damage in respect of any Building or any property within such Building 
which is unoccupied for a period of more than thirty consecutive dates [sic] 
other than Damage caused by fire lightning explosion aircraft or other aerial 
devices or articles dropped therefrom or Subsidence as detailed [reference to 
another endorsement] subject to the following Special Condition. [Company 
Is emphasis]
Company I made reference to another property under its same schedule, with a 
similar endorsement but which had no such exception for fire, lightning etc. As a 
result, it said the endorsement TICL was seeking to rely on does not apply to the 
claim in question as it was caused by fire.
Company I also provided further detail around the sites security, arguing the property 
was secure prior to the initial break-in. It said the lock on the annex door did not work 
but was screwed shut prior to the initial break-in with wooden batons across part of 
the door. It said these wooden batons were forced and glass within the window was 
broken during the initial break-in, and the main door to the property was also forced.
Following the initial break-in, Company I stated the wooden batons were replaced 
and fitted within tamper proof screws. And that these were forced during the arson 
attack. It said the inner door that did have a secure lock had been also forced, so a 
lack of a lock on the external door was immaterial to the loss in this case.
Company I restated its position that it had taken all reasonable steps to mitigate 
security between the initial loss and the arson attack. And that it was the extent of the 
boarding on the inner door  following the initial break-in  that led to the intruders to 
resort to fire, having forced the outer door as they had previously.
The endorsement related to fire alarms shouldnt apply  providing evidence of 
discussions between its broker and the insurer of the existing fire system present at 
the property prior to the insurance being taken out. So, it said TICL was aware of the 
lack of fire alarms and system present at the property, and it wouldnt be fair for it to 
apply this endorsement as this only related to systems already present.
So, the matter has been passed back to me to consider for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still satisfied that TICL has fairly declined this claim, and Im not 
upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. Ill answer Company Is most recent points in turn.
The endorsement 
Company I has argued the endorsement related to security does not apply to incidents of 
fire, lightning, explosion, amongst others. So, I will repeat the relevant terms here for the 
avoidance of any doubt. The policy wording, under exclusions states: 
The insurance provided under this Property Damage Section does not cover This goes on to list out a number of exclusions. The endorsement in question within the 
policy schedule, replaces exclusion 10 for this property, and says:
10. Damage in respect of any Building or any property within such Building which is 
unoccupied for a period of more than thirty consecutive dates other than Damage 
caused by fire lightning explosion aircraft or other aerial devices or articles dropped 
therefrom or Subsidence as detailed in [other endorsement] subject to the following 
Special Condition
The relevant special conditions have been listed within my provisional decision above. So, I 
wont repeat these again here.
Having read over these terms carefully, I dont agree with Company Is interpretation. Im 
satisfied the endorsement makes clear that damage is covered if an unoccupied building is 
damaged by fire AND the special conditions are met. So here, cover still turns on those 
conditions.
The break-in and mitigation on Company Is part
In line with the above, Im still satisfied the special conditions apply to this claim. The one 
most disputed here is:
(a) such unoccupied buildings are secured against illegal entry and all external doors 
and accessible external windows are fitted with good quality locks 
Company I has been explicitly clear that the external door was not fitted with a good quality 
lock in line with the above terms  prior to the initial break-in. And that it had wooden batons 
to secure the door. And following the break-in and the repairs Company I carried out, it 
refitted wooden batons.
So, in both instances, prior to the initial break-in and the later arson attack, it is evident to me 
that the external door in question was not fitted with a good quality lock. And this was in 
breach of the security endorsement on its policy.
As outlined in my provisional decision, its evident this access was relevant to the claim and 
the fire itself as it was the point of entry that intruders used. 
Ive thought again about the circumstances described around this, to determine whether 
TICL has applied this fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
Company I has argued that during the initial break-in, the intruders broke through both the 
external door that had the batons securing it, as well as the internal door that had been fitted 
with a mortice lock. So, it says the external doors lack of a lock wouldve not been material 
to the initial break-in as the intruders made it through both types of secured door.
I take on board the argument Company I has made here, but I disagree that this shows the 
lack of a good quality lock was immaterial to the loss. Had the intruders accessed the 
property using a different route that was unrelated to a door that didnt comply with the 
terms, I might agree, but here its evident the access was gained through the door that did 
not comply. So, I think TICL is fair to consider this as material to the loss.
Company I argues the extent of the boarding of the internal door and the security this 
provided, following the initial break-in, may be the reason the intruders resorted to arson. 
This satisfies me that the security of the external door was material to the loss again, as they 
were only able to access the internal door after breaching the external door. I understand Company I may feel the intruders wouldve made their way through regardless. But simply, 
Company Is security did not comply with this endorsement  the external door was not fitted 
with a good quality lock as required  and Im satisfied this was material to the loss. 
Ive taken on board what Company I have said about the steps it took to mitigate any breach 
of security. But these havent changed my mind.
So, in this instance, I am not directing TICL to act beyond its policy condition that has been 
breached as I do not believe there is a fair and reasonable reason to do so.
Other endorsements and terms relied upon by TICL
Company I and TICL have had long exchanges about other terms TICL sought to rely on to 
decline this claim.
Ive taken all of these points on board, but given Im already satisifed TICL has fairly declined 
the claim, I do not feel it is necessary or productive to discuss the others any further as it will 
not impact the outcome of the claim.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company I to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman