DRN-3663055
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society froze his account when it blocked one 
transaction to a company he had paid twice before. And it did not evidence why which goes 
against natural justice.
What happened
Nationwide blocked a transaction and then put Mr Ss account on hold until he provided the 
information it required.
Mr S says, as a result, he missed an opportunity to earn £1,500 and his account was frozen 
for a number of days. He wants Nationwide to apologise, to pay him 4-figure compensation 
and to change its policies and processes around applying blocks. He says the clause that 
allowed Nationwide to freeze his whole account is hidden in the account terms and unfair.
He believes suspending his account access over one transaction is over-reach and 
draconian, he wants a guarantee this will not happen again. He says he did answer the fraud 
teams questions, but they didnt like his answers. He is also unhappy with the service he 
received - scheduled calls were made late, calls he had with the fraud team were 
unsatisfactory and responses to his emails were slow. He feels the fraud team is not 
properly governed. The whole matter caused him significant stress and inconvenience.
Nationwide said, in summary, the block was applied in line with section 21 of the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss account.  It could not share the evidence behind the decision to block 
the transaction as it was flagged due fraud/scam concerns. When Mr S spoke to the fraud 
team on 22 February 2022 he did not provide satisfactory answers to its queries about the 
transaction, instead giving different, and inappropriate, reasons for the payment. It wasnt 
until 3 March 2022 that Mr S provided the information needed  and the block was removed 
the following day.  It apologised that there were at times delays when call backs were 
promised, but pointed out that had Mr S properly answered the questions he was asked on 
the initial call with fraud, the subsequent communications could have been avoided.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said Nationwide had acted 
reasonably. It is obliged to work to protect its members against fraud or scams and that was 
its motivation here. The terms of Mr Ss account allow it to block a transaction - and then 
suspend an account if the information they ask for is not provided. Once Mr S provided 
genuine answers to the fraud teams questions the restrictions were lifted the following day.  
She thought the £25 compensation Mr S had received for the issues with the phone service 
was fair.  
Unhappy with this assessment Mr S asked for an ombudsmans review. He re-iterated his 
main complaint points which are covered in the summary above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought carefully about all the points Mr S has made during our investigation, and in 
his emails to Nationwide. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service I 
will focus here, as our rules allow us to, on the issues I find to be material to the outcome of 
the complaint.
Having reviewed the information from both parties I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The fraud team contacted Mr S after a £500 payment he made was flagged. This meant it 
needed to ask Mr S a number of questions to ensure he was not victim to a scam or fraud. I 
have listened to the call. Mr S found the questions to be impertinent and intrusive and so 
refused to co-operate. But Nationwide tried to explain why it had to ask the questions. It has 
an obligation to protect its customers from potential fraud or scams, so it can be expected to 
make reasonable enquiries including  but not limited to  the circumstances surrounding 
the payment instruction. I have not seen any evidence that the block was applied on a whim, 
or that the questions from the fraud team were arbitrary as Mr S suggested. Mr S is unhappy 
that Nationwide did not supply him with the evidence it had to suspect the transaction may 
have been risky. But we would not expect it share this given the very nature of its concern. 
I think Mr Ss responses were inappropriate on the call and understand why they fell short of 
the giving the fraud team the reassurance it needed, so I can see why his account access 
was suspended as a result. Section 21 of the account terms and conditions Mr S agreed to 
supports its actions. It states:
From time to time, we may ask you to provide us with information to help us meet our anti-
money laundering, financial crime, sanctions and other legal and regulatory requirements.
You must promptly provide any information requested. If you fail to provide this information
when asked to, this may result in us delaying or refusing to process your payments or
blocking all access to your account. We will not be responsible for any losses which may
result.
So I do not find Nationwide did anything wrong. I dont agree its actions were over-reach, nor 
do I find the clause it relied on to be hidden in its terms. It has the same prominence as all 
the other account information set out in the terms and conditions. I disagree with Mr Ss 
analysis that it is an unfair contract term giving Nationwide the unilateral right to freeze his 
account, without being fair and open. I say this as the clause makes clear that such action 
will only be taken if the account holder has not met their obligation to provide any requested 
information  and so the account holder has the ability to control the course of action.
Had Mr S provided the information on the initial call with fraud, that he later shared with the 
Member Relations Executive, he would not have been without access to his account. This 
would have avoided all the subsequent stress and time he spent trying to resolve his 
account access. I can see he experienced delayed call backs and wait times. But I dont 
think Nationwide need further compensate Mr B for this inconvenience as the ongoing 
communications were created by his refusal to provide the requested information on the first 
call with the fraud team. I find the £25 that has already paid to be reasonable  we consider 
what a customer could have done to mitigate the impact of an event on them when we make 
our awards.
And it follows, based on my findings, that I have found no grounds to instruct Nationwide to 
compensate Mr S for the £1,500 financial loss he outlined. Mr S also asked that we order Nationwide to make changes to its fraud policies and process. 
As an ombudsman I do not have the powers to review an organisations policies, systems or 
processes  that is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Our role is to 
investigate the individual circumstances of a complaint, to decide whether the business has 
made an error, and if so how it should put it right. This is the analysis I have completed here.
Finally, I am sorry that Mr Ss health suffered during this incident, but as I have found there 
were different decisions he could have made which would have minimised the duration and 
stress of this event for him, I am not instructing Nationwide to do anything more.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman