DRN-2317275
The complaint
C is a registered society. It wants Link Mortgage Services Limited (Link) to reduce the 
interest rate or breakage costs applicable to its commercial loan, which it says are too high.
What happened
C is a charitable social housing provider. Some years ago, it took out a loan from the 
Housing Corporation, a public body. Under a restructuring of how such loans were 
administered, Cs loan was transferred to a new owner in 1997. Link administers this 
portfolio of loans, including Cs, on the loan owners behalf. 
C complained to Link last year about the interest rate charged to the loan and the breakage 
costs that would be payable if it was redeemed early. But Link rejected Cs requests to waive 
or discount the breakage costs. In summary, it said that the loan was operating in line with 
both the original method adopted by the Housing Corporation and the intentions for the 
portfolio when the transfer was arranged in 1997. So C referred its complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, as she couldnt see that the 
interest rate or breakage costs had been calculated incorrectly. C didnt think that the 
amounts in question were fair, so it asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
And so the matter was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month, setting out why I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint and inviting any final submissions from both parties. I said:
As Ive explained above, Cs loan isnt owned by Link. Its owned by a different 
company altogether. That company isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and as a result is not a business that falls within our jurisdiction. This, in turn, 
means that we cant consider complaints about it.
Thats relevant here, because as I see things, Cs complaint is about the lending itself 
 the terms on which the loan was or is provided, and upon which it may be repaid. Or 
indeed the rejection of proposed changes to those terms, in declining to reduce either 
the interest rate or the breakage costs. Those are all matters for the lender (or loan 
owner) to decide, rather than the administrator. And so it follows that I cant seek to 
hold Link responsible for those matters here.
Link is regulated by the FCA and it is covered by our jurisdiction  so we can consider 
complaints about it. But as administrator, I cant see that it holds any responsibility for 
any of the matters at issue here. I can see that Link has been the one relaying the loan 
owners position to C, and ultimately dealt with its concerns. But its not making the 
decisions itself  and were I to find in Cs favour, I would need to direct the loan owner, 
rather than Link, to make changes to the loan agreement or accept a reduced 
settlement figure. But I cant do that in a complaint against Link  and for the reasons 
above, we couldnt consider a complaint about the loan owner either.
C has also expressed some concerns about how the loan was amended in 1997 and I 
note the point that had it been given any choice in the matter, it wouldve tried to find a 
better deal at the time. Ive considered whether the actions of the previous loan owner 
might be something we could look at separately. But as this was the Housing 
Corporation  a public body that wouldnt have fallen under the jurisdiction of our 
Service or any predecessor schemes  Im afraid this isnt something we could 
investigate further either.
This leaves a fairly narrow scope for Cs complaint about Link, in that it is limited to 
how it has administered the loan in relation to these requests. 
Having looked into that, I cant see that its done anything wrong. It replied to Cs 
request that the interest and breakage costs be reduced with a detailed response 
within three days. 
I assume that Link, in its role as administrator, ran the necessary calculations for the 
redemption statement, which included the breakage costs that seem to have given rise 
to the complaint. But theres no suggestion that there were any errors in the 
calculations. So I cant see it did anything wrong in the provision of the redemption 
statement or the calculation of the breakage costs.
In summary then, we are unable to investigate Cs concerns about the fairness of 
amounts payable under the loan agreement as those are matters for which the loan 
owner is responsible. And as I cant see that Link has done anything wrong in how it 
has administered the loan, I dont intend to uphold the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision with any further comments or evidence 
for me to take into account. Having considered things afresh, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion. So this final decision confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman