DRN-3894876
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Sumup Payments Limited (Sumup) are holding her liable for the 
value of a chargeback they received in relation to her account.
What happened
Mrs T says that in February 2022 she provided a taxi service for the value of £490, with the 
payment taken via her Sumup account  which allows her to take card payments from 
passengers.
The funds were credited to her Sumup account on 8 February 2022, then were withdrawn to 
Mrs Ts bank account held with a bank Ill refer to as C. Later in February, Sumup received a 
chargeback claim from a separate bank (who Ill refer to as X), for the fare of £490. Sumup 
contacted Mrs T and let her know about the chargeback, asking her to provide 
documentation so they could defend the claim. Mrs T replied to Sumup by email and told 
them there is no customer no invoice the charge back is being requested by X as a charge 
from Sumup has gone onto my X statement which I didnt do.
Mrs T says that instead of the passenger paying the fare of £490, Mrs Ts own credit card 
held with X was charged for the fare. As a result, Mrs T raised a complaint with X to reclaim 
the funds, saying they were incorrectly taken from her account.
Sumup presented the information from Mrs T to the acquiring bank to contest the 
chargeback - but were unsuccessful. As such, they were required to return the £490 to the 
acquiring bank who returned the funds to Mrs Ts card account with X.
Mrs T has raised a complaint against Sumup, saying they are unfairly holding her liable for 
the value of the chargeback claim.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. They explained that Sumup 
had acted appropriately by returning the funds when their attempt to contest the chargeback 
was declined and, as a result, they could hold Mrs T liable for the transaction.
Mrs T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I need to decide whether Sumup have acted fairly in returning the funds in line 
with the chargeback claim that was raised against Mrs Ts Sumup account and whether they 
can fairly hold Mrs T liable for the value of the transaction. And, having carefully considered 
everything, Im satisfied that Sumup have acted fairly for the following reasons:
Sumups terms and conditions allow Sumup to hold Mrs T liable for the value of a 
chargeback claim if they are unsuccessful in defending the claim. Their terms and 
conditions say:
Section 16 of our Payments Terms (available here: https://www.sumup.com/en-
gb/terms/payment/) state-
The amount of a Payment may be charged back to your Account if the Payment (a) is 
disputed, is reversed for any reason by the relevant Network, our Acquiring Partner, 
the Cardholder or any of our designated financial institutions; (b) was not authorised; 
or (c) we have any reason to believe that the Payment was not authorised, unlawful, 
suspicious, or in violation of these Terms (Chargeback).
We reserve the right to charge a fee for investigating and/or mediating any 
Chargebacks; any such fees will be disclosed on our Website. If a Chargeback 
dispute has not been resolved by either the issuing bank or the Network in your 
favour, or if you choose not to contest a Chargeback, we reserve the right to (a) 
collect from you the original Payment amount plus the Fees and (b) credit the original 
Payment amount back to the Cardholder.
Im satisfied that Mrs T wouldve agreed to these terms and conditions in opening her 
account with Sumup. 
Sumup contacted Mrs T and made her aware of the chargeback claim and asked her 
to provide documentation in order for them to defend the claim. Sumup then 
responded to the acquiring bank, providing the information Mrs T gave them. 
Although Sumup werent successful in their defence of the claim, Im satisfied that 
they acted reasonably and took appropriate steps based on the chargeback process 
in an attempt to contest the claim.
Sumup were required to return the funds when the chargeback claim was upheld by 
the acquiring bank. As Mrs T had transferred the funds out of her Sumup account to 
her bank account held with C  her Sumup account didnt have any credit funds from 
which Sumup could recover the £490. Therefore, Im satisfied that theyre acting 
reasonably in holding Mrs T liable for the value of the claim. 
Mrs T withdrew the funds from her Sumup account to the account she holds with C, 
so she could return the funds to her Sumup account in order to clear the negative 
balance/debt owed. But I dont think its reasonable for Mrs T to expect Sumup to 
bear the loss in relation to the chargeback raised by X following her complaint to 
them.
Mrs T may wish to pursue the passenger she says shouldve paid the £490 for the 
taxi service she provided.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T, but Im not satisfied that I can fairly ask Sumup not to hold her 
liable for the £490 which they were required to return to the acquiring back as the result of 
chargeback claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Sumup Payments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman