DRN-3125660
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the way Tesco Underwriting Limited have handled their 
insurance claim after their car was hit by a third party.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H say their car was parked outside their home when it was hit by another 
vehicle. Mrs H says she was in the house at the time with an engineer who was carrying out 
some work. Mrs H says the engineer left the house to get something from his van which was 
parked down the road. When the engineer returned he told Mrs H he had seen someone 
driving a red car hit her car and drive off. They suspected it was their neighbour who had hit 
their car since Mrs H says he is the only person on the road with a red car. 
When they went outside they took photographs of the damage to the vehicle and the 
engineer gave Mrs H his telephone number, agreeing to act as a witness to the accident. 
Mr and Mrs H say they posted a letter through the neighbours letterbox regarding the 
incident. Mr H says the neighbour told them he hadnt hit their car. Mr H says he explained 
they had a witness and the neighbour still maintained it wasnt him. 
Mr H reported the incident to Tesco the following day after obtaining the neighbours details 
from another neighbour. Mr H also gave Tesco the name and contact details for the witness. 
Mr H says a few weeks later Tesco called him to say it had been unable to contact the 
witness and if it could not contact him it would close their file. Mr Hs son then made some 
attempts to locate the witness which he did. The witness agreed to contact Tesco and inform 
them he had witnessed the accident. 
Mr H says after some time had passed he contacted Tesco to get an update on the claim. 
Initially Mr H was told Tesco were waiting for clear photographs from the third-party insurer 
in order to send them to their own engineer. When Mr H called again for an update Mr H 
says Tesco told him the witness evidence had not been detailed enough in his statement 
and therefore it did not believe the witness evidence would be helpful to the claim. 
When Mr Hs car insurance renewal was due he took out his cover with another insurer. The 
information he gave them was based on his understanding that the claim was not his fault. 
Mr H says he was contacted by his new insurer who said his premium would be increased 
since it had become aware of the claim on checking his insurance history. 
Mr and Mrs H were not happy that the premium had increased due to an incident that wasnt 
their fault. They complained to Tesco. 
Tesco looked into things and said it would not be upholding the complaint. It said it had 
contacted the witness, progressed the claim, and had always said that while the claim was 
open, it would show as a fault incident until it received full reimbursement of its costs.
 
Mr and Mrs H were not happy with the response they received from Tesco and so they 
brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator said she didnt think Tesco needed to 
take any action since they had acted fairly and in accordance with the policy. 
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with the investigators view and so this matter has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H.
I can see that this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Mr and 
Mrs H. Ive no doubt that Mr and Mrs H have done all they can to try and prove their claim 
and have acted in good faith when reporting the accident to the insurer. I can understand 
why they thought the witness evidence would be enough to show the third party was at fault, 
and when the claim was recorded as a fault claim I think this would have both shocked and 
upset them. 
But its not for me to decide who was responsible for the accident. It is important to explain 
my role here is to look at whether Tesco acted in a fair and reasonable manner and within 
the terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the claim. I am not able to look at 
actions of the third-party insurer.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Not kept up to date throughout claims process 
Mr and Mrs H feel they were not kept updated throughout the claim. I have reviewed the 
documents provided by both sides together with the telephone calls to and from Tesco and 
Mr and Mrs H. I can see that Mr and Mrs H were provided with updates at key moments; 
when Tesco couldnt contact the witness, when the engineer report was disclosed, when a 
decision on the outcome of the claim was made. 
There have been a number of calls between Mr and Mrs H regarding the claim. The claim 
was reported on 1 October 2020 and concluded on 5 March 2021. In that time there were at 
least twelve telephone calls to and from Tesco together with letters confirming the present 
position. Having looked through the documents and listened to the calls I think Tesco have 
provided adequate updates on the claim.  
Witness evidence 
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with how Tesco have dealt with their witness evidence. They said 
they feel Tesco could and should have done more to speak to the witness and obtain further 
information if the statement he provided was not sufficient. 
I can see from the information provided to me by Tesco it made numerous attempts to 
contact the witness. Unfortunately it had been provided with an incorrect telephone number 
in the first instance. Mr H provided Tesco with the correct number on 29 December 2020 and it contacted the witness on 30 December 2020. It then wrote to the witness enclosing a 
questionnaire for completion. Since the witness did not appear to receive that letter Tesco 
sent out a further copy. The witness completed the questionnaire. Once Tesco received the 
witness evidence it was disclosed to the third-party insurer without delay. 
The third party raised issues with the witness evidence; their driver said that the witness was 
known to Mr and Mrs H. I have listened to the call where Tesco is discussing the witness 
evidence with Mr and Mrs H. In that call Tesco says that it is working to prove the claim on 
behalf of Mr and Mrs H however the evidence was not detailed enough. I have seen a copy 
of the witness evidence. Where the questionnaire asks for the make, model and number 
plate of the car the witness has answered red car and provided a brief description of the 
driver. Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs H say that this evidence should prove their claim, 
since its independent, Tesco has said that the evidence does not conclusively confirm that it 
was the neighbour who hit the car. 
Engineer evidence 
The third party obtained a report from an engineer who confirmed that they could not see 
any evidence that the car owned by their driver had been involved in a collision. The 
evidence was also sent to Tescos own engineer who agreed with the findings in the report. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs H object to the inspection and report on the basis it was done 
months after the collision. The engineer did note some markings on the car and was able 
attribute those to general wear and tear. In the report the engineer confirms there were no 
indications that recent repairs have been carried out.
I have seen the engineers report and it states based on the evidence available to us we 
find no evidence to suggest that this vehicle was involved in the incident as described I am 
satisfied that Tesco used an engineers professional opinion to help inform its decision.
Effect on future insurance cost and no claims discount
Since Tesco were unable to recover its costs from the third-party Tesco is not able to 
reinstate the no claim discount. The Tesco policy says, If we make a full recovery of the 
claims cost from a third party your no claim discount will be reinstated, so Tesco has acted 
within the terms of the policy. 
In the letter dated 21 January 2021 Tesco confirm that until its costs are received the claim 
will show as a fault incident to other insurers, and since it hadnt received the costs the claim 
remained open. 
At the time of taking out their new policy Mr and Mrs H werent aware the claim was ongoing 
and the third party was disputing it. They said they didnt disclose the incident to the new 
insurer as they didnt class the matter as an accident. And since theyd assumed the third 
party was liable they didnt think they needed to declare it to the new insurer. So they were 
shocked when they found out that their premium would rise because of the incident. But as 
Tesco had been unable to recover its costs from the third party; the incident was fairly 
recorded as a fault claim.
So whilst I understand Mr and Mrs H are upset by this its standard practice by insurers and I 
dont think Tesco has done anything wrong here.
 
Taking the claim to court 
Mr and Mrs H say that Tesco would take the claim to court and then say they wouldnt. I 
have listened to the call where Tesco discuss the possibility of court proceedings. During the 
call the agent confirms that if the other side continued to dispute the claim and Tesco felt it had enough grounds to pursue the matter then the claim might be passed to solicitors. The 
advisor says she is not saying that it will happen and they would take a view following review 
of the evidence. 
I can see that on the back of this conversation Mr and Mrs H may have thought the claim 
would eventually go to court. However Tesco took the view the evidence was not persuasive 
enough to prove the claim. 
In the terms and conditions of the insurance policy Tesco is able to carry out the defence or 
settlement of any claim And this is what it has done here. 
Ive considered the information provided to me by Mr and Mrs H and Tesco. I must say that I 
have empathise with the position Mr and Mrs H now find themselves in. Unfortunately I dont 
think that this is due to Tesco and its handling of the claim. 
Tesco took a view that in the absence of detailed independent evidence to prove that the car 
driven by the third party was involved in a collision, and the fact that the witness evidence 
was not detailed enough it wouldnt be able to pursue the claim any further. I dont think 
Tesco acted unreasonably here since they relied on the evidence before them in order to 
come to that conclusion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman