DRN-3124604
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that AWP P&C SA declined their claim against their travel insurance
policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents.
What happened
In summary, in June 2019, Mr and Mrs P bought an annual travel insurance policy with AWP 
which started on 12 October 2019. They arranged a trip to Southeast Asia with a departure 
date of 12 October 2019 and an intended return date of 28 October 2019.
Whilst they were on their trip, Mr P had pain in his eyes and suffered from deteriorating 
vision. A few days after the pain started, Mr P had total loss of vision in his left eye. I 
understand that he already had problems with his vision in his right eye. He sought medical 
assistance in the country he was in but was told that there was no available assistance.     
Mr and Mrs P curtailed their trip and returned home on 18 October 2019.
Mr P had medical treatment in a UK hospital from 20 October 2019 to 7 November 2019. 
Mr P says that the optic nerves are damaged in both his eyes and the cause is unknown.
Mr and Mrs P made a claim against their policy in relation to medical costs abroad and 
the cost of their return flights. AWP declined the claim. It said:
Mr P couldnt make a claim under the personal accident section of the policy as 
his medical condition isnt related to an accident.
It didnt have confirmation from the treating doctor that it was necessary for Mr P 
to return home early.
Mr P didnt declare any medical conditions when he took out the policy.
It relied on the Health declaration and health exclusions part of the policy, which 
Ill refer to in more detail below.
Mr P didnt tell it about his illness on the trip, which hes required to do under the 
policy terms.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He asked AWP for information on 
several occasions from September 2020 onwards, but AWP didnt provide it. So, the 
investigator upheld the complaint. He said that AWP hadnt provided anything to show 
that it had assessed the claim correctly and treated Mr and Mrs P fairly in declining the 
claim.
AWP didnt provide any substantive response to the investigators view. As there was no 
agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to
decide.
My provisional decision
On 23 September 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated 
that I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint but for different reasons than had been 
set out before. I said:
Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr P. I dont doubt that this was, and
continues to be, a very worrying time for both him and Mrs P.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
On the face of it, Mr and Mrs P have a valid claim against their policy in relation to the 
curtailment of their trip and emergency medical and associated expenses. Weve asked 
AWP for information several times over an extended period, but it hasnt provided a 
substantive response. Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think that I can fairly 
conclude that AWP acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. So, I think it should 
deal with Mr and Mrs Ps claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Ill 
explain why Ive come to this provisional decision:
I agree with AWP that Mr Ps claim isnt under the personal accident part of the 
policy. Thats because Mr P didnt have an accident, as defined by the policy. So, 
those provisions dont assist us here.
AWP relies on the Health declaration and health exclusions part of the policy 
which says:
It is very important that you read the following and if necessary declare 
any existing medical conditions to us.
Exclusions relating to your health.
You will not be covered for any directly or indirectly related claims [] arising 
from the following if in the 12 months before taking out this insurance or 
booking your journey (whichever is later), you:
have been prescribed medication;
have received treatment or attended a doctor for any medical condition;
have attended a hospital or a clinic as an out-patient or in-patient;
have been referred for tests, investigations, treatment, surgery or are 
awaiting results;
have been diagnosed as having a terminal illness.
Unless
You have bought your policy in an STA Travel store or over the phone and the
medical condition(s) has (have) been declared or and accepted by us in writing.[]
[] If you need to make a claim arising from a medical condition that has not 
been declared and accepted by us, it is unlikely that your claim will be paid.
[]
Note 
Indirectly related claims
An indirectly related claim means a medical problem that is more likely to 
happen because of another medical problem you already have. [...]Essentially, one of the reasons AWP declined Mr and Mrs Ps claim was that it 
said that Mr P hadnt told it about his pre-existing medical conditions. It appears 
from the notes of Mr Ps discharge from the UK hospital in November 2019 that 
Mr P took several lifelong medications. And the notes show that Mr P lost vision 
in his right eye and was diagnosed with optic neuropathy in March 2019, so 
within 12 months of taking out the policy.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer 
insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies 
provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to 
show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer 
failed to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under 
CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless, or careless.
AWPs position appears to be that Mr P didnt declare any medical conditions 
when he took out the policy. No medical conditions appear on the policy 
schedule, which is where wed expect to see what Mr P had declared.
Weve asked AWP to provide this service with its file, but it hasnt been 
provided. AWPs file may show the questions it asked Mr and Mrs P when they 
took out the policy and the answers they gave. In the absence of that 
information, I cant determine whether Mr P took reasonable care in answering 
the questions AWP asked him or not. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think I 
can safely conclude that Mr P failed to take reasonable care in answering the 
questions he was asked. So, I dont think AWP acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim on the basis that Mr P didnt disclose his pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that, AWP hasnt said what it 
would have done differently if it had known about Mr Ps pre-existing conditions. 
So, I cant safely say that any misrepresentation Mr P made was a qualifying 
one, as defined by CIDRA. Based on the information I have, I dont think that 
AWP acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim because Mr P didnt 
declare his pre-existing medical conditions.
AWP is right to say that, contrary to the requirements of the policy, Mr P didnt 
provide confirmation from the treating overseas doctor that it was necessary for 
him to return home and that Mr P didnt tell it about his condition whilst he was 
on the trip. But I dont think that means that AWP acted fairly or reasonably in 
declining the claim.Mr and Mrs P were clearly in a very difficult and worrying position. Mr P had lost 
the sight in his left eye and already had problems with the vision in his right eye. 
Mr and Mrs P say that they didnt contact AWP as after the overseas doctor didnt 
offer any treatment, they were in shock and wanted to return home urgently to 
start treatment in the UK, which is what they did. In the particular circumstances 
of this case, I dont think that its fair and reasonable for AWP to decline             
Mr and Mrs Ps claim because they didnt tell AWP what was happening or 
because Mr P didnt provide a medical certificate from the overseas doctor.
As Ive said, AWP hasnt provided a substantive response to this services request 
for information. If it does so in response to this provisional decision, I will consider 
whats provided and it may well alter the outcome of this complaint.
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think that AWP acted fairly or reasonably in declining 
Mr and Mrs Ps claim. I think that it should deal with Mr and Mrs Ps claim under the 
remaining terms of the policy.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs P accepted my provisional decision. AWP didnt provide a response.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs P have accepted my provisional decision and we havent heard from AWP, I  
see no reasons to depart from the conclusions I set out previously. So, I remain of the view 
that AWP didnt act fairly or reasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Ps claim. 
Putting things right
AWP should deal with Mr and Mrs Ps claim under the remaining terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. AWP P&C SA should now take the steps Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman