DRN-1621450
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard applied a default to her 
credit card account.
What happened
In 2012, Miss S took out a credit card with Barclays. Generally, Miss S kept up with the 
monthly repayments on the card up until the beginning of 2018, where repayments to the 
account became more sporadic. 
From August 2018 Miss S didnt make any payments to the account and her account went 
into arrears. Because of this, Barclays applied a default to her account on 27 February 2019. 
The account has now been paid off in full and is closed.
Miss S complained to Barclays about the default and asked it to remove this from her credit 
file. She said that the reason for the default was down to some personal issues that she was 
going through  and this had left her unable to deal with her finances. 
Barclays said that it wouldnt remove the default. So our investigator looked into the 
complaint too. She found that Barclays had acted fairly in applying the default. 
Miss S didnt agree. She gave us a much more detailed account of what she was going 
through at the time. She says that this shows she couldnt deal with her finances at the time 
and Barclays arent treating her fairly by not agreeing to remove the default. Because Miss S 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the matter
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding Miss 
Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Miss Ss situation. Its clear that shes been 
through a very difficult time which has, understandably, caused her much upset and anxiety. 
In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard Miss Ss 
situation. Ive no doubt it was a truly horrible time for her. And Im sure the fact that a default 
being applied to her credit card account has only made a bad situation worse.
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties 
have said. And I have to look to see if Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing 
with Miss S  and I think it has.
Theres no dispute that Miss S missed payments  both parties agree on this. The terms and 
conditions of Miss Ss account say that if the minimum payment amount isnt paid by the due 
date, then this information may be reported to the credit reference agencies, which could make it harder and more expensive to get credit in the future. This isnt unreasonable and is 
in line with how most lenders operate. 
The laws and legislation surrounding defaults say that a person must be notified of the 
businesses intention to apply the default. It should do this when a person has missed 
between three to six payments. As Ive said, Miss S missed six payments. Barclays sent 
Miss S a letter on 22 January 2019 explaining that a default may be applied if she didnt 
make a payment to bring her account back up to date by 22 February 2019. Because she 
didnt do this by the date specified in the letter, it sent her another letter on 27 February 2019 
to let her know that a default had now been applied to the account. Barclays did what it 
needed to do in communicating with Miss S about the default. 
Miss S that that due to her health at the time, she didnt understand what was happening. 
But Barclays sent Miss S letters and tried to contact her about the debt. Barclays has also 
sent me call notes from when it spoke to Miss S about the money she owed. So while I 
appreciate Miss S couldnt deal with the debt at the time, Barclays did what it needed to do 
in trying to contact her. The default notice Ive seen is clear as to what would happen if Miss 
S didnt bring her account up to date. 
As Ive said, Im in no doubt that Miss S was going through a very difficult time  Barclays 
were also aware of this. Barclays had a responsibility to ensure that it treated Miss S 
positively and sympathetically in relation to her financial struggles. I can see it did this by 
giving her information about various debt organisations. It also helped her by refunding some 
of the charges and interest shed incurred. And from looking at Miss Ss statements, I can 
see that it also stopped applying interest to her account from September 2018. For these 
reasons, I think Barclays treated Miss S positively and sympathetically.
Barclays has an obligation to report to the credit reference agencies information that is 
correct and accurate about a persons payment history. This is because other lenders may 
rely on this information when making lending decisions. So, while I appreciate the reasons 
for the missed payments were due to some serious and ongoing personal matters, I have to 
decide if Barclays have acted fairly. Because payments were missed and subsequently the 
account defaulted, Barclays have acted fairly in reporting this to the credit reference 
agencies.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Miss S's complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 May 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman