DRN-3452386
The complaint
 = complained that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) didnt confirm in 
his annual membership renewal that an agreed two-year discounted premium would also 
apply the following year.
What happened
AA had offered Mr M a two-year premium discount, but his next annual membership renewal 
letter didnt confirm that the discount would continue to apply for the following year too. Mr M 
wanted AA to change their policy so that their renewal confirmation did show this. AA said 
they couldnt do that, but they did on his request confirm the two-year discount in writing by 
email.
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that it 
was enough that AA had confirmed to him and to us in writing that the premium discount 
applied for two years . Mr M didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M had agreed a two-year premium discount with AA by phone. When his annual 
membership renewal letter showed the discount amount for that year only, and not the next 
year too, Mr M phoned AA to query it. AAs staff member said they couldnt confirm the two-
year discount in writing. Mr M emailed them about it and AA did then reply, emailing him 
confirming the two-year discount. 
Mr M thought that Mr Ms refusal to confirm a contractually agreed term in writing was 
unreasonable and unbusinesslike. He said they only confirmed it in the end because he 
persisted asking them. He explained that in the past AA had offered him a discount and then 
not kept their bargain, so he wanted to make sure this time. He also didnt want the same 
thing to happen again if he decided to renew with them next year. He found it a stressful and 
time-wasting experience.
AA never denied that theyd given Mr M a two-year discount. They said it was on their 
system and his following years annual membership renewal would include it too. In their 
response to his complaint they said however that it was a "business decision" not to include 
the two-year discount on the annual document. 
Mr M thought that it would be more efficient for AA to include in their annual document that 
the same discount would apply for the next year, and that to omit it was to omit one of the 
key elements of their agreement. 
However I think that AA did confirm in writing the contractual term theyd agreed with Mr M, 
even if they didnt do it in the way he would have liked. In the end, if AA didnt want to do that 
in the format of the annual membership renewal letter that was up to them. It was their 
decision about how they operate their business. This service accepts that a business is 
entitled to make those sorts of commercial decisions and we do not generally intervene in 
them. While I can see that Mr M felt some inconvenience in having to contact AA again to 
get them to confirm the two-year discount in writing, I dont think this took an unreasonable 
time. This means that overall I dont think that AA have done anything wrong. I realise that 
Mr M is likely to remain disappointed by this decision, but I dont require AA to do anything 
else.
My final decision
For the reasons above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
