DRN-2936200
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is responsible for a recurring default incorrectly 
appearing on his credit file.
  
What happened
Mr T opened a current account with Lloyds. Mr T raised a complaint related to the account in 
2019 and, following a review of Mr Ts complaint, Lloyds arranged for the account to be 
closed and the date of default to be backdated to June 2014. It also paid Mr T £250 
compensation. This forms the subject of a separate complaint and isnt being considered as 
part of this decision.
Following Lloyds decision to backdate the default, Mr T says he was expecting the entry to 
disappear from his credit file six years later. So, he applied for a mortgage in June 2020 with 
another lender, however this was declined. Mr T then checked his credit file and found that 
the default with Lloyds was still appearing. He later found that not only had the default 
remained on the file for longer than hed expected, but it had reverted back to the original 
date of April 2019. Unhappy with matters, Mr T complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds reviewed Mr Ts complaint and agreed there had been an error in the information it 
had reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). It paid Mr T £250 compensation to 
put matters right and said it would delete the default entry from Mr Ts credit file. In relation 
to the declining of Mr Ts mortgage application by another lender, Lloyds didnt uphold this 
part of his complaint. It explained that a default wouldve been on the file in some capacity in 
June 2020, as it was due to be deleted from the credit file when it updated in July 2020. 
Some weeks after Lloyds response, Mr T checked his credit file again and was disappointed 
to find that the default had reappeared. Unhappy with how Lloyds had handled matters, Mr T 
brought his complaint to our service. Whilst the case has been with this service, Mr T has 
been checking his credit file regularly and found that the default had reappeared on several 
occasions, despite Lloyds regular reviews and attempts to delete the entries. 
Mr T also became aware that Lloyds had sold the debt onto a third-party debt collection 
company. But, during the process of doing so, reported the incorrect default date to the 
company. This resulted in the third-party also incorrectly reporting the default to the CRAs.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ts complaint. In summary, he thought Lloyds hadnt 
clearly explained how it would prevent the issue from recurring in the future. He 
acknowledged that Lloyds said it would regularly review and delete any incorrect information 
reported to the CRAs, but he didnt think this went far enough to resolve matters for Mr T. He 
thought Mr T had been caused a great deal of inconvenience and felt additional 
compensation of £750 would be fair in the circumstances. 
Lloyds agreed to our investigators recommendation for compensation. Mr T remained 
unhappy and thought Lloyds ought to increase the compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has 
come to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
It's not in dispute that Lloyds has reported inaccurate information to the CRAs. The default 
was due to be removed from Mr Ts credit file from around June 2020. Therefore, I can 
appreciate Mr Ts frustration that not only did the entry reappear on his credit file after this, 
but it also appeared as the incorrect date of April 2019  meaning that it could remain on his 
credit file for many years after it was due to be removed. And Im satisfied from what Ive 
seen that this had a significant impact on Mr T.
Lloyds initially wasnt able to explain why the error had happened. But Lloyds took steps to 
remove the incorrect information from its system and paid Mr T £250 compensation for the 
error. Having considered the overall circumstances and for the reasons Ive set out above, I 
think Lloyds offer of compensation was fair for the issue that had occurred. I also think 
Lloyds assurance around preventing further mistakes was appropriate at the time. I 
appreciate Mr T said his mortgage application was declined by another provider in 
June 2020 as a result of this error. However, Lloyds explained that the default wouldve still 
remained on the file in some capacity as there hadnt been enough time allowed for it to drop 
off. This seems reasonable to me, given that Lloyds wouldve reported an updated position 
of the account to the CRAs the following month. And, as I understand it, Mr T has since told 
this service that his mortgage application had been accepted.
Unfortunately, there appeared to still be issues in the months following this. The default entry 
reappeared several times and Lloyds was unable to definitively explain why this kept 
happening, despite its efforts to correct the information. Whilst the case has been with this 
service, matters have since progressed and Lloyds has identified that one of its systems 
hadnt reported updated information to the CRAs for a number of months. So, its likely that 
this might be why inaccurate information had continued to be reported. And, as I understand 
it, since Lloyds has identified this error the default hasnt reappeared for around two 
consecutive months.
In response to Mr Ts concerns about the subsequent errors outlined above, Lloyds has 
agreed to regularly review the information it reports about Mr Ts account and remove any 
incorrect information as soon as its identified. And, in its submissions to this service, it has 
provided internal screenshots to show that it is reporting accurate information to the CRAs. 
As I understand it, Lloyds has also provided Mr T with a letter explaining the mistake that 
had been made, which he can share with other companies if necessary. So, in the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that Lloyds has taken the necessary action to stop the entries 
reappearing and will take action should entries appear again. Despite this, I do think Lloyds 
actions caused Mr T additional distress and inconvenience, and this is what Ive gone on to 
consider next.
The default was due to disappear from Mr Ts account after June 2020. However, the entry 
has reappeared a number of times over a period of close to a year. Lloyds was also 
responsible for passing this information onto a third-party company, who in turn recorded 
another default marker on Mr Ts credit file. Whilst I appreciate this has since been removed, 
I can understand how Lloyds actions here wouldve caused Mr T significant worry. Mr T has described in detail the impact on him resulting from the mistakes Lloyds made. 
Amongst other things, he explains that his credit score decreased, and he has been caused 
a lot of stress as a result of the situation. Mr T says he has also subscribed to two CRAs to 
keep an eye on the matter, which he pays for monthly at a cost of close to £23. I was sorry 
to hear about how Mr T had been affected and can understand why the matter would cause 
him considerable worry and distress, particularly when he was reassured that matters had 
been resolved, only to find that it hadnt been shortly afterwards.
Lloyds cant give Mr T solid reassurance that this issue wont happen again. But, on our 
investigators recommendation, has agreed to pay Mr T an additional compensation figure of 
£750 to reflect the impact that this matter has had on him. Having carefully considered this, 
and the steps Lloyds has put in place to monitor the situation moving forward, I think this is a 
fair offer from Lloyds to compensate Mr T for the additional distress and inconvenience and 
costs that he has incurred in the circumstances  and I think it is enough to cover the 
monthly subscriptions to CRAs that Mr T has said he paid over the period in question. 
If further problems do occur in the future, Mr T could raise those with Lloyds as a new 
complaint. And, if he is dissatisfied with its response, then he could refer those concerns to 
this service to investigate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr T £750 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. It should pay 
this in addition to any compensation it has already paid Mr T to date. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman