DRN-4028069
The complaint
Mr R complains about how TSB Bank plc handled his chargeback claim in respect of a 
defective car.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr R bought a car for £15,995 and paid for it with his debit card. In 
November of that year he asked TSB to raise a chargeback claim as the car had a number 
of defects. TSB asked him for evidence which he had already provided, and when he 
provided it again his email was sent to the wrong department and not acted on, causing a 
significant delay. In February 2022, TSB advised Mr R to return the car to the dealer, which 
he was unwilling to do as by then he had already spent a lot on repairs. Then a month later, 
TSB accidentally sent Mr R an email which was not meant for him but for another member of 
staff; the content misled him about the likely outcome of his claim.
Initially, TSB paid Mr R £50; it later paid him a further £400 for these errors. But it maintained 
that his chargeback claim had been unsuccessful only because the chargeback rules had 
required him to return the car, and not because of any error or delay by TSB.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr T brought this complaint to our service. Meanwhile, 
he sued the dealer in court, and obtained a judgement for £7,000 and costs.
Our investigator thought that the condition of the car fell outside the scope of this complaint, 
as that matter had already been considered in court. But he said that that need not prevent 
him from considering how TSB had dealt with Mr Rs chargeback claim.
The investigator decided that TSB had not been obliged to raise a chargeback claim that had 
had no prospect of success, since Mr Rs decision not to return the car had meant that under 
the rules any claim would have failed. He went on to say that £450 was fair compensation for 
TSBs errors.
Mr R did not accept that decision. He said that the £50 and the £400 had been for two 
unrelated matters. He said he had not paid in the cheque for £400, and he no longer had it. 
He re-iterated that he had sent TSB enough information to prove that the car was defective, 
and other issues pertaining to the sale. He emphasised his anxiety and distress while the 
matter had been going on. He explained that the court had not taken certain matters into 
account, such as repairs, breakdowns and related costs.
The investigator referred this case for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not going to look again at anything which the court considered, or could have 
considered. That means that I will not consider anything which the dealer did, or any 
evidence about the condition of the car, or the circumstances in which it was bought. And it 
is certainly not within my remit to assess whether the court should have reached a different 
verdict, or should have considered matters which it did not consider, or to investigate why it 
didnt consider them.
This decision is exclusively about what TSB did.
Since Mr R did not return the car to the dealer, a chargeback claim could not have 
succeeded, and so TSB did not have to raise one. The delays caused by TSBs errors did 
not contribute to that outcome.
Mr R says that he would have returned the car if TSB had explained to him that the 
chargeback would not succeed otherwise. I am not persuaded by that argument, for two 
reasons. Firstly, because I have no way of knowing what Mr R would have done differently, 
because his reason for not returning the car was that he had already spent thousands of 
pounds on repairing it. He may well have maintained that stance and still gone to court 
instead. Secondly, because I have read TSBs email to Mr R (dated 10 March 2022) in which 
it listed everything it needed from him. This included the following text:
 We will need you to return the goods back to the merchant and provide us with 
proof of return.
 If you are unable to send the goods back, we will need you to contact the merchant 
via email and forward all correspondence between yourself and the merchant.
Although that did not go quite as far as saying that the chargeback claim could not succeed 
if this information was provided, it was nevertheless a clear instruction which was not 
followed. So I dont think TSB made an error in this regard.
TSB has apologised for its errors, and offered Mr R a total of £450 for them. I cannot agree 
with him that the £50 payment was solely for an unrelated matter. It was for two separate 
matters, but one of those was his chargeback claim. I can confirm that TSBs final response 
letter dated 24 February 2022 made this clear:
My understanding of your complaint is:
You are unhappy that you have not received a response to either a letter that was 
sent regarding a previous complaint in 2018, or to a payment dispute that was raised 
in November 2021.
The letter went on to explain that TSBs Disputes Team had not received Mr Rs email of 9 
November 2021. Im satisfied that this refers to Mr Rs response to TSBs email to him on the 
previous day in which it asked him to provide evidence in support of his claim (which was 
similar to the March 2022 one I quoted above, but less detailed).
I think that £450 is fair compensation for what TSB did, and so I will not require it to do more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Richard WoodOmbudsman