DRN-3988845
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice he received from Pi Financial Ltd trading as Future Wealth 
Management (FWM) when he transferred a personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP).
Mr R says his funds were subsequently invested in high-risk products which lost value and 
caused him a financial loss.
What happened
There are several parties involved in this complaint. These are;
Pi Financial Ltd (trading as FWM) - regulated financial adviser
Horizon Stockbroking Ltd (HS) - regulated discretionary investment manager  in 
liquidation
TAM Asset Management (TAM) - regulated discretionary investment manager
James Hay (JH) - SIPP provider
Mr R says he was introduced to Pi in 2014 through an introducing agent following a cold call.
In April 2014 Pi completed a fact find with Mr R which recorded details about his 
circumstances. It recorded that Mr R;
Was 63 years old.
Had an income of £60,000.
Had monthly outgoings of £2,000 including expenditure of £50 on Rent/Mortgage and 
£30 on Life/Savings Policies/Pensions.
Had a realistic retirement age of 65.
The fact-find also noted that;
[Mr R] is an experienced investor and is looking for active management for half of his 
pension via DFM and will manage the other 50% of the pension himself.
Mr R completed two further documents with Pi which were dated 4 May 2014. One was a 
Knowledge and Experience  Assessment which listed the types of investments Mr R had 
previously invested in. It noted Mr R had previously invested in bonds and contracts for 
differences (CFDs).
The other document was a Pension Replacement Contract Form which included details 
about Mr Rs existing personal pension and the new SIPP. The form recorded the charges 
and fees for the new SIPP as well as the risk category being Adventurous and the strategy 
as DFM / Self Invested.
Pi financial say that around April/May 2014 they sent Mr R a suitability report. The report is 
undated and Mr R disputes when it was provided to him saying the report was likely to have 
been written in June 2014.
Amongst other things the suitability report said;
Your financial goals, needs and priorities
During our meeting we discussed various aspects of your personal and financial 
situation, and we agreed that at the present time, your main needs and priorities are:
 Review your existing personal pension and set up a SIPP

Objectives
During our meeting we discussed various aspects of your personal and financial 
situation.
At the present time, your prime objective is to review your existing Personal Pension 
contract with [pension provider] and set up a SIPP to provide you with greater 
investment choice and flexibility. In particular you would like to investigate a transfer 
which would provide:
 You greater fund choices and the ability to manage a part of the portfolio in line with 
your agreed risk profile.
You confirmed that you are currently not a member, and will not be eligible to join 
your company pension scheme.
We have not discussed providing you with a target income in retirement or compared 
your existing providers projections. You have simply asked that I find a suitable 
investment fund for 50% of your existing pension plan and via your SIPP you will self-
invest the rest in line with your agreed risk profile.
The report said that Mr Rs risk profile would lead him to be an adventurous investor. Under 
capacity for loss Pi said;
Your capacity for loss is a second key element of your overall appetite towards 
bearing capital risk i.e. your ability to manage financially if a loss occurs.
As you are going to self-invest 50% of your pension pot and will be responsible for 
choosing the investments within the SIPP we did not discuss your capacity for loss 
as you will manage your investments and will manage any capacity for loss yourself 
with this part of your pension pot.
In the recommendation section of the report Pi recommended that Mr R use TAM Asset 
Management as his DFM. It explained that there were various portfolio options available but 
considering Mr Rs attitude to risk, tolerance and capacity we have agreed that the most 
suitable risk profile for you is adventurous.
Pi went on to also recommend Mr R use JH as his SIPP provider.
Pi say their adviser submitted the SIPP application on 4 May 2014 and completed a new 
business submission for their compliance department. Theyve also sent a screen shot of 
their advisor sending documents relating to Mr R to their compliance department on 6 June 
2014.
The JH SIPP opened in August 2014 and received £197,117.25 from Mr Rs existing scheme on 19 August 2014. Pis fees of £3,942.34 were paid out of the SIPP on 29 August 
2014 and £95,000 was transferred from the SIPP account to TAM on 28 October 2014.
On 6 March 2015 £97,500 was transferred from the SIPP account to HS. Mr R also made 
several regular and lump sum contributions into his SIPP from his employer throughout 2015 
and 2016. The lump sums and half of the regular contributions were invested with TAM. 
Mr R says he was concerned with the performance of his investments and in May 2016 he 
sold his investments in order to switch his SIPP to a new provider which happened in 
September 2016. He says his investment with HS had dropped to £41,571.88 and his total 
pensions value had fallen to £178,011.44 despite having made contributions of around 
£27,000.
Mr R made a complaint to Pi dated 1 June 2020. Amongst other things he said Pi had 
chosen TAM and HS on his behalf but these investments were very high risk and didnt 
match his risk requirements. He said he was soon to be reaching retirement and was reliant 
on these pension funds.
Pi didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. In summary they said Mr R had made his complaint too 
late. They said he was given advice in April 2014 which was more than six years before he 
complained. And Mr R had been concerned about the funds poor performance in 2016, 
which was more than three years before he complained.
Mr R wasnt happy with Pis response and so brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator said she thought Mr R had made his complaint too late for similar reasons to Pi. 
But Mr R disagreed. He said the investment into TAM wasnt made until October 2014 and 
the investment in HS wasnt made until March 2015. Which was within six years of when he 
made his complaint.
As Mr R disagreed the case has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
I asked James Hay for documentation relating to when the SIPP and investment accounts 
were opened. They sent various documents and application forms relating to the SIPP. 
These included;
A Strand Capital Limited application form  signed on 16 June 2014 (no money
transferred)
The James Hay SIPP application form - signed on 30 July 2014.
The TAM Asset Management application form  signed on 30 July 2014.
Charles Stanley & Co application form  signed 21 October 2014 (no money 
transferred)
A Horizon Stockbroking Account opening form  signed on 9 December 2014.
I sent Pi and Mr R a provisional decision. In it I said why Mr Rs complaint falls within the 
jurisdiction of this Service. I went on to explain why I was minded to uphold Mr Rs complaint 
that the advice he received was unsuitable, and how Pi should put things right. Ive copied 
the findings from my provisional decision on the jurisdiction and merits of this complaint 
below which form part of this decision.
Neither Mr R or Pi provided any further submissions or comments for me to consider in 
response to my provisional decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said;Why I can look into this complaint
The rules around timeframes for bringing complaints to our service can be found in the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. I 
wont repeat the rules here but generally they say a consumer must complain to a business 
or our service within six years of the event from which their complaint originates. Or if later 
within three years of when they knew or ought reasonably to have known they had cause for 
complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Mr R had a cause for complaint in 2016 when he 
grew concerned about his investments performance. And Mr R didnt complain until 1 June 
2020, so more than three years after he had cause for complaint.
Therefore, what I must decide here is when the six-year part of the rule began in order to 
establish whether Mr R made his complaint too late.
Pi say that their adviser gave Mr R the advice in question in April or May 2014. But Mr R 
disputes that saying the suitability report quoted documents that hed signed during meetings 
in April and May 2014, so he says it was likely produced in June 2014. And even if it wasnt, 
he says Pi were carrying out regulated activities when the investments were made in 
October 2014 and March 2015.
I think its important to note here that advising on pensions and investments often doesnt 
occur just on one day. Its a process that can span several weeks or months. And includes 
many activities that are inextricably linked to the act of providing a personal 
recommendation. This includes things like; gathering information about the consumer, 
recommended products and investments; producing a written summary of the 
recommendation; completing application forms to implement the advice; and liaising with 
existing and new providers.
These ancillary activities are all part of the advice process for which the adviser  in this 
case Pi  are responsible.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
Consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
I think its likely Mr R met with Pi on 5 May 2014. The Pension replacement form was signed 
on this date and Pis adviser completed the new business form. Pi say that their adviser also 
submitted the SIPP application on 5 May 2014. And so they say, the verbal and written 
recommendations would have been given to Mr R before that date.
However, the suitability report says;
Replacement Business 
In reviewing your objectives, I have recommended that you surrender/discontinue the 
contracts outlined in the Replacement Policy Form.
The rationale for this is also outlined in the Replacement Policy Form, which we completed 
during our last meeting [my emphasis] and a copy of which is attached to this letter.Its therefore likely that the suitability report was written at some point after 5 May 2014 
(when the replacement business form was completed). And Pi have acknowledged that the 
suitability report went through many versions before being finally approved.
Pi have so far been unable to provide evidence of these different versions or when the final 
version was approved. But I still cant say with any certainty when Mr R was sent the 
suitability report, and whether that was after 1 June 2014  less than six years before he 
complained.
However, the suitability report wasnt the last part of Pis responsibilities in providing the 
advice, they also completed the application forms for the SIPP and investment manager - 
TAM.
Pi say that their adviser submitted the SIPP application on 5 May 2014 at the same time as 
completing a new business form. However, James Hay provided the application form for the 
SIPP and an application to open an account with TAM.
Both documents were signed by Mr R  electronically in the case of the SIPP application  
on 30 July 2014.
Further to that the SIPP application signed on 30 July 2014 had several errors, including 
errors with Mr Rs date of birth and his employers address. JH have provided 
communications from Pi which appear to have been received by them on 31 July 2014, 
pointing to these errors and asking for amendments to be made to the application.
The SIPP opened on 1 August 2014, two days after the application was signed. Which 
appears consistent with the documents being supplied and signed by Mr R in late July rather 
than May.
Even if Pi had submitted something to JH in May 2014, they dont appear to have acted on it. 
And the SIPP wasnt opened until after JH received the SIPP application which was signed 
in July 2014. And theres no evidence the TAM application was completed and signed by 
Mr R earlier than 30 July 2014.
Considering the available evidence and full circumstances of this complaint I think its likely 
the advice process that Pi was responsible for continued into July 2014 as they were still 
carrying out activities inextricably linked to the advice they were giving.
As Mr R made his complaint within six years of July 2014, I consider that our service has the 
authority to consider the merits of his complaint. And while Pi havent commented on the 
merits of this case, Ive seen sufficient documentation from 2014 for me to consider the 
merits of Mr Rs complaint and provide my provisional findings on them.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is:PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to a 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1) says a firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives; so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or 
take the decision, which is suitable for him.
COBS 9.2.2 says:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
The suitability report said it was Mr Rs objective to find a SIPP to transfer an existing 
personal pension into and hed asked Pi to find a suitable investment fund for 50% of [his] 
existing pension plan. It noted that Mr R planned to self-invest the rest of his funds in line with his attitude to risk.
In the suitability report Pi made a personal recommendation to Mr R as to which SIPP 
provider to use. They said:
I recommend that you consider establishing a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
Plan offered by James Hay Partnership. James Hay Partnership was chosen over 
the other providers on the original research due to their low annual management 
charge, low set up fee and quality of service.
Pi also made a personal recommendation as to which investment manager, and portfolio 
Mr R should invest in within his JH SIPP. They recommended TAM Asset Management 
saying:
In order to determine the most appropriate offering available I have undertaken research 
via an independent research agency Defaqto. Their due diligence and research notes 
cover 58 discretionary offerings from 36 providers. This research was used to ensure 
that the potential providers considered were:
Established
Profitable
Offered an appropriate service
We are looking for proactive portfolio management at a reasonable cost.
After providing information about TAMs portfolio options they said;
After due consideration of your attitude to risk, tolerance and capacity we have 
agreed that the most suitable risk profile for you is adventurous.
The suitability report didnt consider what Mr R would do with the remaining 50% of his 
funds. So, Ive first considered whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of a SIPP provider and a DFM for only half of Mr Rs funds.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA).
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Mr Rs objectives and that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks. Mr Rs recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was the access to a 
wider range of investments through a SIPP and DFM.
I consider the risks of Mr R transferring his existing pensions and the risks of his intended 
investments through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Mr R wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr R was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established.
I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific SIPP product, Pi 
needed to have regard to Mr Rs wider circumstances including how his funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. Assessing the suitability of a 
SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is not reasonably possible.
To reiterate this point, the FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that 
regulated financial advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on 
unregulated investments which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held 
particular risks for customers, however I consider the principles here still apply where 
regulated investments are concerned. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] 
without assessing the advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be 
held within the new pension..
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that 
this process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability 
of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the 
customer will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest 
in an overseas property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas 
property investment must form part of the advice about whether the customer should 
transfer into the SIPP. If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the 
customer, the original pension product, including its underlying holdings, is more 
suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is not suitable
It specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they could 
advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further alert in 
which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest 
through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the 
customer, then the overall advice is not suitable.
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a 
SIPP) which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, 
provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall 
transaction, that is, the vehicle or wrapper and the expected underlying investments 
(whether or not such investments are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they 
purportedly restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper.
I appreciate that the alert focussed on particular situations and it didnt mention explicitly 
situations where a second regulated party was involved to give investment advice. But the 
essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they needed to consider 
the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were intending to do was 
suitable and in their best interest.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Mr Rs wider 
circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from a personal 
pension to a SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the 
underlying investment strategy.
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mr R to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation.
Pi and Mr R were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert, and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi to consider the 
wider suitability of Mr Rs intended transactions when recommending a SIPP - whether he 
requested this or not. Pi had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction 
including the pension switch and where Mr R intended to invest after the transfer. They failed 
to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or reasonably when providing their 
advice to Mr R.
Was the advice suitable
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr R with a suitable 
recommendation, so Ive considered whether they met this requirement.
Pis suitability report says that through discussions with Mr R, and the completion of a 
knowledge and experience form, they assessed his attitude to investment risk as 
adventurous. And theres some evidence from the time to support that Mr R was happy to 
take higher risks with his investments. Mr R had recently been investing in CFDs and Pi 
recorded hed held shares and bonds.
However, Pis responsibilities didnt stop at establishing Mr Rs investment experience and 
attitude to risk. The regulators rules said Pi also needed to know enough about Mr R to 
ensure he was able to financially bear any related investment risks consistent with his 
investment objectives. It wasnt good enough just to know that Mr R had an adventurous 
attitude to risk, they needed to ensure he had the capacity for loss for such an investment. 
And I dont think Pi did. Ill explain why.
Pis fact-find only recorded limited details about Mr R. The section to record income and 
expenditure only showed Mr Rs Income of £60,000 and expenditure of £2,000 a month 
including £50 for mortgages/rent. It didnt record any information about any other pensions, 
savings or assets Mr R had to rely on in retirement.
Pi also failed to assess in any real detail Mr Rs likely required income in retirement and how 
that could be achieved through his pension or other assets. Considering Mr R was 63 at the 
time of the advice, it should have been an important consideration when assessing Mr Rs 
capacity for loss.
In the suitability report Pi said;
We have not discussed providing you with a target income in retirement or compared your 
existing providers projections.And;
As you are going to self invest 50% of your pension pot and will be responsible for choosing 
the investments within the SIPP we did not discuss your capacity for loss as you will manage 
your investments and will manage any capacity for loss yourself with this part of your 
pension pot.
So, Pi didnt assess Mr Rs target income or capacity for loss which meant they couldnt say 
with any certainty whether Mr R was able to financially bear the risk of having 50% of his 
funds invested in an adventurous portfolio. They also didnt compare Mr Rs existing funds 
projected performance against their recommendation, meaning Mr R couldnt decide 
whether the transfer was in his interests from an informed position.
Mr R says he was reliant on this pension to provide an income in retirement and Pis fact find 
didnt record any other pensions, savings or investments. He was 63 years old at the time of 
the advice and Pi recorded a retirement age of 65 although also said he wouldnt need to 
draw an income at that point. Meaning he had little time to recover from any losses he might 
suffer. So, it was vital that Pi considered if Mr R could afford to make significant losses with 
his pension. And the evidence demonstrates he couldnt. So Pi shouldnt have 
recommended he invest 50% of his funds in an adventurous portfolio.
Pi said that as Mr R was self-investing the other 50% of the funds, he could manage his own 
capacity for loss. But the regulator had also said Pi needed to ensure they knew enough 
about their client to be satisfied their recommendation was such that he has the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in the transaction or in 
the management of his portfolio.
Mr R had answered in his knowledge and experience form that he would normally receive 
advice on his investments and didnt have any experience in requesting transactions on an 
execution-only basis. So, while Mr R did have experience in investing, I dont think the 
evidence supports that he had experience in managing his portfolio himself or ensuring that 
his capacity for loss was managed through balancing the risk in his portfolio. Allowing Mr R 
to manage 50% of his funds himself, without such experience, wasnt in his best interests. 
Especially when the 50% of funds that Pi did recommend were in an adventurous portfolio 
that in its nature was likely to see fluctuations in its value.
If Mr R self-invested his 50% into high-risk funds, the type of which like CFDs Pi knew Mr R 
had traded previously, his overall portfolio was likely to carry a higher risk far outweighing his 
capacity for loss.
Its unclear from the paperwork whether Pi knew in this particular case that Mr R was 
planning to invest through HS when they gave their advice on the SIPP. And its possible 
Mr R made that decision later in the year as Mr R opened two other accounts on an 
execution only basis with Strand Capital and Charles Stanley when the SIPP was first 
opened. Although no funds were ever transferred to either platform.
However, Ive seen that Pi sent James Hay the instruction to move 50% of Mr Rs funds to 
HS in February 2015. And Im aware that Pis adviser had known about similar transactions 
from other clients. So, on balance I think its likely Pi knew that Mr R, like other clients 
introduced by unregulated introducers, would invest through HS.
Even if Pi didnt know about Mr Rs intentions to invest through HS, for the reasons I have 
set out previously, the suitability of the SIPP couldnt be established without confirming the 
suitability of the underlying investments. So, Pi shouldnt have recommended the switch 
when it didnt know what level of risk around 50% of Mr Rs portfolio was going to be exposed to. Pi ought to have found out how Mr R intended to manage the portfolio and 
couldnt make a recommendation without this information.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended the switch to a SIPP to Mr R. They 
should have explained that given his limited assets, he couldnt financially bear the risks with 
his retirement funds to invest in an adventurous portfolio, even if this only accounted for half 
of his pension fund.
In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
and investment without knowing that Mr R could financially bear the recommended risk. Pis 
role wasnt to simply transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
They didnt pay due regard to Mr Rs interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure 
that their personal recommendation was suitable for Mr R, as per their regulatory obligations. 
Therefore, I do not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Mr R were fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances.
As Ive said, Pi couldnt just look at half of Mr Rs funds without considering what was 
happening to the other half. They say it was Mr Rs objective to self-invest these funds, but 
theyd also recorded he had no previous experience of managing his own investments and 
had previously relied on advice for his investments. And when Mr Rs SIPP was opened, he 
didnt make any self-trades. After several months his funds were handed over to a single 
DFM to manage - which seems at odds with Pis stated objective. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen I dont think Mr R had a genuine need or the required experience to self-invest 
50% of his pension which Pi should have made clear to him.
Would Mr R have transferred his pension to a SIPP anyway?
Pi may argue that even if they had provided Mr R with risk warnings or refused to 
recommend the SIPP, he would have gone ahead with the transfer with someone else. Ive 
carefully considered this argument, however on balance I think Mr R would have listened to 
Pi if they had clearly told him they couldnt recommend a SIPP without knowing his intended 
investments and pointed out his attitude to investment risk may be at odds with his capacity 
for loss.
I think on balance if Pi, as a regulated adviser and independent third party, had told Mr R 
they couldnt recommend the SIPP without knowing full details of how his pension was going 
to be managed; told him the limited information it did have indicated the intended 
investments werent suitable for his circumstances; and told him he couldnt afford to risk his 
pension in this way, he likely would have decided not to proceed.
Im not persuaded the evidence suggests Mr R was so strongly motivated to make the 
transaction that he would have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert 
advice. For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Mr R would more likely than 
not have remained with his existing pension arrangements if Pi had explained the position in 
full and recommended against the SIPP.
Fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr R unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr R more 
likely than not would have remained in his personal pension. Having considered all the 
evidence and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi compensates Mr R for any losses he 
suffered by transferring into the SIPP and investing into TAM and other high risk investments 
through HS.Im aware that in similar complaints Pi have said they cant be required to pay compensation 
which is outside of their legal scope of responsibility and which is too remote to be 
recoverable as a matter of law.
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Rs knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above.
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended the switch to a SIPP. For the 
reasons I have given earlier in the decision, I think Mr R would have likely remained in his 
existing pensions but for Pis failings. So Mr R wouldnt have been in the SIPP or HS 
account at all if Pi had met its obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently, he 
wouldnt have suffered the investment losses he did. I therefore consider the losses Mr R 
suffered from the high-risk investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.
Pi may argue that HS, who was also a regulated firm, had their own obligations towards 
Mr R and it was their investment strategy that ultimately caused Mr Rs losses. And any 
issues with the way in which HS traded were not issues that could have been foreseen by Pi 
and the losses incurred are therefore too remote.
I recognise that HS also had regulatory obligations and its possible that their actions may 
have also separately caused some of Mr Rs loss. And Ive taken into consideration that, in 
principle, if HS acted negligently or fraudulently, such actions might represent a break in the 
chain of causation.
In these particular circumstances, however, I dont think Mr Rs losses were unforeseeable. 
Pi were aware of Mr Rs previous investments into higher risk products like CFDs. And 
should have been aware of the investment strategy several of their clients had entered with 
HS. They ought to have known Mr R may invest in high-risk and speculative investment 
products and their fact find showed Mr R didnt have the capacity for loss for such an 
investment. So, Im satisfied the real risk of Mr R suffering substantial losses and even the 
risk of total loss of his pension would or should have been foreseeable to Pi.
Pi knew of the high risks and significant losses Mr R could suffer by self-investing his 
pension funds or investing with HS. If Pi had given Mr R suitable advice these losses would 
have been prevented.
I cant consider a complaint against HS as they are in default. In the circumstances of this 
case I think its reasonable to award fair compensation against Pi notwithstanding any 
potential break of chain of causation.
This is because Im putting Mr R as far as possible in the financial position he would be in 
but for Pis unsuitable advice. Mr R wouldnt have lost out at all but for Pis failings to take 
reasonable steps to ensure their advice was suitable and Pi benefitted financially [in their 
role as independent financial advisors] from advising on this unsuitable transaction. So I 
consider it fair that Pi should compensate Mr R. I think apportioning responsibility to Pi for 
the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
In my view Mr Rs losses flowed from Pis failures in regard to COBS and PRIN as I have 
described. I dont think the losses are too remote or that I am departing from the law. In all 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair compensation that Pi compensates Mr R for the 
losses he suffered by transferring his pension into a SIPP and from there into high-risk 
investments.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional decision. 
Neither side provided any new evidence or submissions in response to my provisional 
decision for me to consider. Therefore, I see no reason to depart from the findings Ive 
already reached in this case. So, for the reasons Ive explained in this and my provisional 
decision, my decision to uphold the complaint remains the same.
Putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Rs losses my aim is to put Mr R as close as possible 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi.
In my view, for the reasons given above, Mr R would more likely than not have stayed in his 
existing arrangements if Pi had followed their regulatory duties and not recommended the 
SIPP.
Mr R was advised to switch his pension again to a new provider with new investments on 
08 September 2016. This advice was given by the same adviser, however in his role as an 
adviser for a different firm who wasnt an appointed representative of Pi. As the advice in 
2016 forms a new advice point which Pi is not responsible for, I consider it fair and 
reasonable to stop loss calculations on this date. However, I also considered that Mr R will 
have lost out on investment returns on this loss amount between then and now. So, losses 
need to be brought up to date as set out below.
Pi should request a notional value from Mr Rs previous pension provider. Pi should 
calculate compensation by comparing the notional value that Mr Rs existing pension would 
have been on 08 September 2016 when it was transferred to a new provider (Value A) with 
the value of his SIPP (Value B) on the same date.
If Pi are unable to ascertain the notional value from Mr Rs previous pension provider, to 
calculate Value A they must calculate what the pension would have been worth on 
08 September 2016 had it produced a return using the benchmark - The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income total return index.
If Value A is higher than B, then the difference between A and B is the loss. This loss 
amount should be revalued in line with the FTSE UK Private investors Income Total Return 
Index from 08 September 2016 until the date of my final decision.
I consider this benchmark fair as:
Mr R wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Rs circumstances and risk attitude.When calculating Value A, any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP 
should be deducted from the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if they are totalled and all those payments deducted at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be 
added to the Value A calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Mr R hasnt yet taken any tax-free 
cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd should pay Mr R £300 for the distress suffered when he realised 
he had lost significant parts of his pension.
Pi Financial Ltd should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the compensation 
calculated as at the date of decision if its not paid to Mr R within 28 days of us notifying Pi 
Financial Ltd that Mr R has accepted my final decision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial considers its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr R how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Mr R in a clear and simple format
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd trading as Future 
Wealth Management to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman