DRN-4100878
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal
with their complaint under sections 75 or 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in
respect of a holiday product purchased in September 2009.
Mr L and Mrs L are legally represented for their complaint, but I will only refer to anything
thats been said on their behalf as though they said it for ease of reference.
What happened
In or around 2003 Mr L and Mrs L purchased a membership of a holiday timeshare club
which operated a points system. The more points a member owned then the higher the level
of membership achieved and the more benefits that would be available to them.
Over the years, Mr L and Mrs L purchased additional points using various methods including
credit agreements and cash. In September 2009, Mr L and Mrs L purchased a further 1,200
points so that their membership reached platinum status. They financed this 2009 purchase
via 120-month fixed sum loan with FHF.
In 2016, Mr L and Mrs L voluntarily surrendered their membership to the holiday timeshare
club and in February 2019 they settled the balance of the loan.
In July 2021 Mr L and Mrs L complained to FHF that they had been subjected to a pressured
sale when on holiday in 2009 and this had led to the purchase of the additional points. They
said that the benefits of the membership had been misrepresented as they had been told the
resorts were exclusive; that there would be no issues as to availability and that the
membership fees wouldnt be increased. They sought to make claims under section 75 and
section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. They also said that the holiday operator who
had brokered the loan wasnt regulated and that there had been breaches of the law and
regulations governing Timeshare sales.
FHF didnt uphold Mr Ls and Mrs Ls complaint. It said that as Mr L and Mrs L had attended 
a number of sales meetings both before and after the September 2009 sale and so would
have been fully aware of what to expect. It also said that no misrepresentations had been
made to Mr L and Mrs L at that sales meeting and that, as existing members, they were
aware the resorts werent exclusive and that membership fees would increase over time.
Mr L and Mrs L complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that their
complaint should be upheld. She said that she didnt think FHFs decision to decline Mr Ls
and Mrs Ls claims under the Consumer Rights Act had been unfair.
Our investigator said that generally speaking a claim for breach of contract or
misrepresentation had to be made within six years of when a consumer had everything that
they needed to make such a claim. She said in the case of Mr L and Mrs L that she
considered this would have been at the point of sale in September 2009. Our investigator
said she thought FHF had been entitled to rely on the timing of Mr L and Mrs Ls claim to
turn them down.
Looking at the fairness of the relationship between Mr L and Mrs L and FHF, our investigator
said that she didnt think there had been any misrepresentation by the holiday operator. She
also said she didnt think the terms of the agreement were so problematic as to be
considered unfair; that Mr L and Mrs L hadnt agreed to the purchase when not knowing
something that was important to that decision or that the holiday operators conduct had
fallen so far short of the standard that would have reasonably been expected from them.
Mr L and Mrs L disagreed with our investigators view. They said there was an unfair
relationship because they hadnt been advised about a relationship between the holiday 
operator and FHF; that the holiday operator hadnt been regulated to arrange the credit 
agreement; that they had been pressured into agreeing to purchase the points in September
2009 and they hadnt been provided with the paperwork. They also said there had been a
number of misrepresentations about the membership.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
When looking at complaints, I must take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules,
guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice.
Mr L and Mrs L had raised a number of issues about the credit agreement they took out in
September 2009. They had raised claims under section 75 and 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 with FHF and due to the amount of time that had passed since Mr L and Mrs 
L had made this purchase in 2009, I needed to consider whether the Limitation Act 1980 
also applied. However, I wasnt determining the outcome of their claims in this decision as 
only a court was able to do that. What I was considering was whether FHF had treated Mr 
Ls and Mrs Ls claim fairly and reasonably.
Mr L and Mrs Ls Section 75 Claim
Section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act sets out that a consumer who has a claim for
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions,
bring that claim against a credit provider.
Here, Mr L and Mrs L said that there were a number of misrepresentations made to them 
about the benefits of membership of the timeshare club. They said they were told that the
membership was an investment, that the resorts were exclusive to members, that there
would be no issues as to availability when booking a holiday and that the membership fees
wouldnt increase.
FHF said that no misrepresentations were made. It also said that Mr L and Mrs L, having
been members of the holiday timeshare club for some years and having used the available
resorts before this purchase in 2009, would have been aware that the resorts werent 
exclusive, and that membership fees were subject to increases. FHF said that although Mr L
and Mrs L had complained that they had been unable to block book a six-week holiday, as
they said they had been told they could at the point of sale in September 2009, they hadnt
actually tried to make such a booking.
There is a time limit for a misrepresentation claim (whether under section 2 or section 9 of
the Limitation Act) and this limit is six years from the date on which the cause of action
accrued (which is when everything needed to make a claim had occurred). Here, I thought if
those misrepresentations had been made as alleged, and Im not persuaded that they were,
then their cause of action would have arisen at the point of sale. That is the point they would
have suffered a loss and Mr L and Mrs L would then have had six years from September
2009 to bring a misrepresentation claim against either the holiday company or FHF.However, no claim had been made until July 2021, around twelve years later.
I therefore thought that Mr Ls and Mrs Ls claim under section 75 for misrepresentation was 
likely to now be time barred and that FHF would be entitled to rely on that as a defence.
Mr Ls and Mrs Ls Section 140A Claim
Under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to consider whether a
credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate orders in
respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and refunding
payments. Mr L and Mrs L said they thought they had been subject to an aggressive selling
technique and that the credit agreement had been misrepresented.
The courts have found that under Section 140A the limitation period runs from when the
allegedly unfair relationship ended and as the fixed sum loan ended in 2019, their claim was 
I thought raised in time.
Mr L and Mrs L said that they were subjected to pressured selling and that they had been 
told they were attending a meeting to discuss their existing membership rather than a sales
meeting. They said various misrepresentations were made to them, and they werent given
sufficient time to be able to review the terms of the agreement.
FHF disagreed with what Mr L and Mrs L had said. It said that Mr L and Mrs L had
attended 11 presentations prior to 2009 and so they would have been aware the form these
took. It also said it was Mrs L who had requested contact from sales and that Mr L and Mrs
L had actually agreed to buy the additional points in January 2009 but hadnt completed the
paperwork until September 2009, some eight months later.
While I didnt know what had been said between the parties at the meeting in September 
2009, I thought it was fair that I took into account that Mr L and Mrs L had been members of 
this holiday timeshare for some years and that they had chosen to purchase additional 
points on a number of previous occasions. I also understood that during their membership 
they had taken around 37 holidays, so I couldnt say this holiday product was unsuitable for 
them.
I thought that due to their previous membership involving the same set of resorts it was 
unlikely that Mr L and Mrs L would have been unaware that the resorts werent exclusive to 
the holiday timeshare club. I thought the length of their membership also meant that they 
would have been aware that over time the membership fees would increase and that their
purchase wasnt an investment. I therefore thought that if these representations had been 
made (and as stated I wasnt persuaded that they were) then due to Mr L and Mrs Ls 
membership since 2003 they wouldnt have induced Mr L and Mrs L to have purchased the 
additional points.
I hadnt seen any evidence that resorts were unavailable when Mr L and Mrs L had sought
to make bookings. But I also thought they would have been aware that popular resorts at
popular times might not always be free to be booked.
As Mr L and Mrs L had attended a number of similar sales presentations in the past, and
since it also appeared that they had made enquiries about increasing the number of points
they held prior to that sales presentation in September 2009, I didnt have enough evidence
to be able to say they had been subjected to any aggressive selling techniques such as they
werent able to make an informed decision.
Mr L and Mrs L had entered into a number of contracts with this holiday operator when they had purchased additional points so I thought they should have been aware of the terms and
conditions that applied. They had said they werent given time to look at the paperwork, but
I thought they would have been aware of what they were signing and also that they could 
have declined to do so if they had felt uneasy. I didnt know how long they were given to 
consider the documentation, but I thought they would have been aware of the right to cancel 
if they had concerns concerned about the fairness of the agreement.
Looking at the contract I didnt think the terms and conditions had been so manifestly unfair 
that it made the relationship between Mr L and Mrs L and FHF unfair.
Mr L and Mrs L had also raised that they hadnt been made aware there was a relationship
between the holiday operator and FHF or that the two firms had some directors in common.
But I hadnt seen anything that would have led me to conclude that there was anything 
unusual about the business relationship between the two companies. I also didnt think it 
was unfair for FHF not to reveal that there were common directors between the two 
companies as I didnt think this in itself would render any credit agreement so unfair as to be 
unenforceable. Id seen there was no commission paid by either company to the other as a 
result of this credit agreement.
The selling agent was unregulated
Im satisfied that the selling agent was regulated at the time Mr L and Mrs L had entered into 
the credit agreement in 2009. They were licenced by the Office of Fair Trading at that time.
So, for the reasons given above, although I appreciated this would have been of 
disappointment to Mr L and Mrs L, I thought FHF was likely to have a defence to a claim 
under section 75 and that it had acted fairly in declining their claim under section 140A. I 
wasnt therefore intending to uphold their complaint.
FHF hasnt asked me to re-look at any parts of my provisional decision, but Mr L and Mrs L 
have said they disagree. They say the timeshare operator used practices that were 
specifically prohibited by both Timeshare and Consumer Protection legislation, and this 
shows that the contract was unfair. They also say the timeshare operator failed to adhere to 
the Resort Developments Organisation code of ethics which is further evidence of an unfair 
relationship between the parties. Mr L and Mrs L say that as they raised that the relationship 
was unfair it falls to me show that it was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked again carefully at the evidence that was supplied and the conclusions that I 
had reached and while Im sorry to disappoint Mr L and Mrs L, I havent changed my view.
As set out above, it isnt my remit to decide whether there was an unfair relationship 
between the parties because that is the role of the courts. My role is to consider whether 
FHF had acted fairly when considering Mr L and Mrs Ls claim under section 140A.
I dont know what was said between the timeshare operator and Mr L and Mrs L at the 
presentation, and although I wasnt persuaded that there were misrepresentations made to 
about the benefits of timeshare membership, even if there had been, for the reasons given 
above, I didnt think they would have induced Mr L and Mrs L to enter into the contract for 
the points.I still think that its fair to take into account that Mr L and Mrs L, due to their previous contact 
with the timeshare operator together with the various other contracts they had entered into 
with it, were aware of the terms and conditions of the agreement and their right to cancel. I 
also havent seen any evidence that they were subjected to any aggressive selling 
techniques such as they wouldnt have been able to make an informed decision at the time 
they entered into the contract.
I therefore dont think the terms and conditions of the agreement were so manifestly unfair 
that it made the relationship between Mr L and Mrs L and FHF unfair.
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint. I think FHF 
has acted fairly in the way it dealt with Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint under sections 75 and/or 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of the timeshare holiday product 
they purchased in September 2009. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman