DRN-3167636
The complaint
This complaint has been brought on behalf of Ms F2 and the estates of Mr F1 and Mrs F1 by 
a family member who Ill refer to as Mr F2. Mr F2 says that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt 
refund fees paid in 2008 for two buy to let mortgage applications that didnt go ahead. He 
asks that it refunds the fees with interest. 
What happened
Mr F1, Mrs F1 and Ms F2 made two buy to let mortgage applications in 2008. Mr F2 has 
explained why the buy to let mortgage applications didnt go ahead. He says he asked at the 
time for the application fees to be refunded but Barclays didnt respond. 
Barclays offered £150 for the time taken to respond to the complaint. 
Our investigator said Barclays no longer has records of the applications due to the time 
passed. It cant provide evidence that it refunded the fees. While Mr F2 provided statements 
for a credit card and bank account the investigator said she couldnt be sure that the fees 
hadnt been refunded to another account or via a solicitor.
Mr F2 didnt agree, saying it was only speculation that the fees were refunded to another 
account. He was upset that the investigator hadnt put more weight on the evidence he 
provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F2 provided Ms F2s credit card statement from July 2008 showing payment of two 
application fees to Barclays in July 2008. He provided statements for the next 12 months for 
Ms F2s credit card account and a current account with Barclays, to show the fees hadnt 
been refunded to these accounts.
Barclays cant provide full records of what happened in 2008. It cant provide evidence of the 
fees being refunded, or any discussion about this. Given the time that has passed, I dont 
find this surprising and I dont draw any adverse inferences. 
Mr F2 emailed Barclays in October 2008. In this email, he said Barclays delayed matters by 
including a wholly unreasonable non-standard condition for the lending, and by the time 
Barclays issued mortgage offers with acceptable terms it was too late to use the facilities. He 
said in the circumstances, I must ask that the application fees (two amounts of £995) be 
refunded to my account. Mr F2 says he didnt receive a response to this email.
Barclays sent letters to the applicants (Mr F1, Mrs F1 and Mrs F2) dated December 2008 
saying it had received notice that they didnt wish to continue with the applications, and had 
advised solicitors accordingly. These letters suggest the applications progressed after offers 
were made in July/August 2008 as solicitors were involved until December 2008.
Its not clear from the limited evidence available that the application fees paid by Mrs F2 
were refundable if the mortgages didnt complete. Barclays say its likely they were 
refundable. But its not sure.
Mr F2 asked Barclays to refund the fees to his account in October 2008. Im not sure that 
Barclays would have acted on this instruction, given that Mr F2 wasnt an applicant and 
didnt pay the fees. Its also possible that the applications were continuing at this point, or 
Barclays thought they were, given the letters sent in December 2008. 
Assuming the fees were refundable, the most likely course of action would be for Barclays to 
refund the fees to the account used to pay them (Mrs F2s credit card account). However, 
Mr F2 says this account was closed in August 2008 due to fraud and a new account was 
opened. So Barclays would have needed new account details which it didnt ask him for. He 
provided statements to show that the refund wasnt made to this account.
There are other possibilities though. First that the fees werent refundable. Second that they 
were refunded, but not to the accounts Mr F2 provided statements for. Mr F2 says its 
speculation that Barclays refunded to the money to another account. I should perhaps say 
here that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
There were three applicants  Mr F1, Mrs F1 and Mrs F2  and its likely they each had 
accounts. The fees could have been refunded to one of these accounts. There was a 
solicitor involved, and while I agree its less likely the fees would be refunded via the solicitor 
this is a possibility. But what I think is persuasive here is that none of the applicants or Mr F2 
appear to have followed up the matter at the time, after deciding not to go ahead with the 
applications. 
I have to bear in mind that letting property is a business. These were applications for two buy 
to let mortgages. The applications involved three applicants and Mr F2, and they paid fees of 
nearly £2,000. On balance, if they expected these fees to be refunded, Id have expected 
them to chase Barclays for the refund. I think its unlikely theyd simply forget to do so. I think 
its more likely that the fees were refunded and, given the time passed, recollections have 
faded and records arent available. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F2 and the 
representative of the estates of Mr F1 and Mrs F1 to accept or reject my decision before 
15 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman