DRN-2447788
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Coutts and Company (Coutts) did not process her sale of units and a 
foreign exchange transaction correctly. Mrs J says she has been financially disadvantaged 
as a result.
What happened
Mrs J held an account with Coutts and on 3 March 2020 via her private banker, she asked to 
sell units in two companies which I will call Company A and Company B. The private banker 
told Mrs J that she would need to call the dealing team directly to place the trades.
Mrs J was travelling overseas at the time and called a few days later to place the trades. The 
proceeds from the trades amounted to £97,565.93 after a conversion from US Dollars. Mrs J 
asked for this amount to be credited to her bank account and the private banker confirmed 
on the 12 March that this would be transferred overnight. 
On 25 March 2020, Mrs J placed a sale of 95,000 units in a company that I will call Company 
C. On 31 March, Mrs J saw that the sterling/dollar rate was $1.24 and requested that the 
proceeds of the sale be transferred into her current account.
The private banker replied on 1 April saying that the proceeds of the sale of Company C had 
raised $102,562 and that the current indicative exchange rate was 1.2504 which would result 
in a sterling amount of £82,023.35.
Mrs J queried this information and told the private banker that the dealing team had quoted 
her different prices and she was expecting a higher price. The private banker explained that 
although a price was provided, the actual dealing price could not be confirmed until the 
following day as this was how the fund operated. A complaint was raised by the private 
banker at this point.
On 7 April, Mrs J instructed the private banker to carry out a conversion of the sale proceeds 
to sterling and transfer this to her account. This was carried out on 9 April with an exchange 
rate of $1.2585 and a sterling rate of £81,495.43 was credited to Mrs Js account.
Coutts investigated Mrs Js complaint but did not think they had done anything wrong. They 
said that the trades had been placed correctly and that there was a 2pm deadline in order to 
allow the price to be confirmed later at 11pm on the same day. Coutts say that the units 
were placed the day after the instruction was placed and in line with market practice.
Coutts also confirmed that its sterling/dollar exchange rates didnt reach $1.24 when Mrs J 
had requested to convert them so it didnt convert them. They placed the conversion at 
$1.2585.
Unhappy with Couttss response, Mrs J referred her complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators looked at her complaint. The investigator didnt think that Coutts had done 
anything wrong and did not uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs J has asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J but I wont be upholding her complaint and agree with the view 
of the investigator for much of the same reasons.
The complaint is split into two parts and I will deal with the sale of units in Company C first.  
Mrs J held units in Company C and she gave an instruction to sell these units to the dealing 
desk at Coutts. Ive listened to the call between Mrs J and the dealing desk and I think that 
the dealer attempted to explain to Mrs J how the units would be dealt but I still think that 
there was confusion. The call ends with Mrs J placing an instruction to sell the units.
The units that Mrs J held in Company C are dealt on a forward pricing basis. This means 
that the instruction is held alongside others and the price is determined at a later date and 
usually once a day. This has the effect that the exact price that the units are dealt at is not 
known until after the instruction is placed. The price is calculated at the next valuation point 
and is normally available on the next business day.
This is different to dealing in shares, where UK markets provide live prices and you deal 
knowing the live price. With forward pricing, the dealing price is not known until the next 
business day.
The instruction from Mrs J to sell units in Company C was on 25 March. The valuation for 
these units was 11pm that day and the price was confirmed on 26 March. I have reviewed 
what Coutts have provided to Mrs J on how the units are dealt. This is from Company C and 
it says:
Dealing Deadline
The Dealing Deadline is 15:00 UK time on the Business Day immediately preceding the 
relevant Dealing Day or such other day or time as the Directors may determine provided the 
Shareholders are notified in advance and it is prior to the relevant Valuation Point.
Valuation Point
The Valuation Point is 23:00 UK time on the Business Day immediately preceding the
Dealing Day or such other day or time as may be determined by the Directors and
approved by the Depositary.
Settlement Date
The Settlement Date for the receipt of monies for subscription for Shares shall be 3
Business Days following the relevant Dealing Day. The Settlement Date for the dispatch of 
monies for the redemption of Shares shall be 3 Business Days following the relevant Dealing 
Day provided that all the required documentation, including anti-money laundering 
documentation, has been furnished to and received by the Administrator.
Ive said that I think there was still some confusion on the call between Mrs J and Coutts 
dealing department. When the dealer was quoting the price to Mrs J, he was attempting to explain that the price wasnt available at that point. I sympathise with Mrs J on this point as it 
would have been helpful had the dealer said that the price was an indicative one and this 
may have helped in Mrs Js understanding. 
I have looked at the terms and conditions for the service which Coutts operate. Clause 1.3 is 
relevant to this issue and it says:
Under normal circumstances, in respect of written instructions, deals will be placed a 
maximum of five working days after receipt of such instructions. Please note that any price 
quoted prior to a deal is indicative only, unless otherwise stated
I acknowledge that Mrs J provided a verbal instruction to trade but I think that the clause is 
still relevant regarding its reference to indicative pricing. As the units in Company C were 
dealt on a forward pricing basis, they were unable to give an exact price that Mrs J would 
receive as the units had not yet been valued. Once the units were valued, the price was 
available the next business day and the contract note that Mrs J received recorded this 
price.
Its unfortunate that there was an apparent misunderstanding on how these units were dealt 
but I think that Coutts have executed the trade in accordance with normal market practice 
and Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
Mrs Js second part of her complaint is about the foreign exchange rate that she received 
when she requested that the sale proceeds from Company A and B be transferred to her 
account.
Mrs J says that she saw that the exchange rate was $1.24 and expected that the sale 
proceeds would be converted at this rate. I have reviewed the available documentation and I 
cant find anything that confirmed that Coutts were able to provide this exchange rate or had 
agreed to convert using this rate. I cant find that Coutts have done anything wrong here and 
I will not be asking them to do anything more.
From the records I have seen, an indicative exchange rate was provided by the private 
banker on 7 April of $1.2463 and Mrs J accepted this rate. When the actual conversion took 
place, a rate of $1.2585 was obtained and the proceeds were converted.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman