Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that following a recent Payment Protection Insurance (PPI)
compensation payment, Black Horse Limited hasnt made it clear to them or given them
confidence that theyve been fully compensated for all the historic loans they took out PPI 
with  whether jointly held or in their sole names.
What happened
Briefly:
In 2013 Black Horse upheld Mr and Mrs S complaint about a series of 10 loans they took
out PPI with. And it issued a cheque to Mrs S (Black Horse says it was its policy at the time
to issue the cheque to the first named applicant) for £38,339.91 which was cashed in early
March 2013.
In 2020 Black Horse wrote to Mrs S because it had identified two further loans with PPI
attached, which it awarded full compensation for. In its letter it provided a table summarising
all of the PPI compensation Mrs S had already received and was due to receive for the two
recently identified loans. Black Horse says it sent Mrs S a cheque for £2,432.57 in Mid May
2020.
Mr and Mrs S then brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because
they said they were confused about what compensation payment related to which loan and
said they didnt have confidence theyd been fully compensated for all the PPI they took out.
I issued my provisional decision of November 2021 in which I said I didnt intend to uphold 
the complaint and I invited both parties to let me have anything they wanted me to consider 
in response.
Black Horse said it had nothing further to add.
Despite chasing Mr and Mrs S representative for a response, they have not responded to 
my provisional decision. While Im mindful that Ive not received a response, I see no reason 
why Mr and Mrs S representative didnt receive my provisional decision  so I think its 
reasonable to assume that if they wanted to respond they wouldve done so by now. For this 
reason I think it is right for me to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint or direct Black Horse to do 
anything more. My reasons are set out below.
DRN-3248734Page 2 of 3Black Horses final decision letter of 2013 and subsequent payment to Mr and Mrs S of
£38,339.91 represents the total PPI compensation for all their jointly held and linked loans 
this is why the final decision letter was addressed to both Mr and Mrs S and it listed all of the
relevant loan accounts. Im mindful that Mr and Mrs S accepted this payment over seven
years ago and they didnt query things at the time - so I dont think its fair or appropriate for
me to consider how this amount was arrived at or review the calculations. But suffice to say
that Im satisfied Black Horse considered all of Mr and Mrs S jointly held loans when it
arrived at this amount  so this represents what Mr and Mrs S should have received (albeit
Black Horse issued the cheque for the amount due in Mrs S sole name.)
But I can see that in 2019 Black Horse contacted Mr and Mrs S again saying that it was
upholding their complaint about loan ending ...181 and its records show that it sent them
each a cheque for £1898.34. This was in fact an error on Black Horses behalf because it
had already included this loan when it compensated them in 2013. So Mr and Mrs S have in
fact been redressed twice for this particular loan and have received more by way of
compensation than they should have done. But I dont expect Black Horse to now recover
this amount from Mr and Mrs S  I dont think that would be fair in the circumstances.
In May 2020 and what prompted Mr and Mrs S complaint, Black Horse sent a final response
letter addressed to Mrs S because it had located two more loans in her name which had PPI
attached. The letter said it was upholding these two loans and according to Black Horses
records it issued her a cheque on 27 May 2020 for compensation totalling £2,432.57.
Because these two loans also formed part of the same chain of loans previously considered
in 2013, and because in all cases the PPI was of the single premium type1, it was necessary
for Black Horse to take account of these other loans as part of its calculation to establish the
extra compensation due. And this is why Black Horse included details about the whole chain
of loans in its May 2020 final response.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S might have been confused by the letter and in particular
by the table showing the different compensation amounts paid for each loan and the
resulting totals - both what had already been paid and what was due.
But I think this can, in part, be explained by the inherent complexity of redressing single
premium PPI in a lengthy chain of loans. Theres also the issue of the gap in time between
2013 when the joint loans were redressed and these two newly discovered loans in 2020. So 
as a consequence the information about the overall redress is contained within several 
documents spanning a number of years.
It is also the case that these two other loans (the first in the chain of loans) werent in Mrs S
sole name - they were in fact jointly held with Mrs S and another party (a party who isnt part
of this complaint.) Because there is an interest from another party Ive thought carefully
about whether I should carry on considering this element of the complaint. Having done so
and taking a pragmatic approach Ive decided in the interests of providing Mr and Mrs S with
a detailed answer to their complaint, its fair to carry on.
Because there is another party to the loans in question, this is why Black Horses final
response letter talks about Mrs S share of the compensation, which it has deemed to be
50%. This is why this is also reflected in the detailed calculation contained within its letter.
1 A single premium policy is where the premium is paid upfront by being added to the loan at the
outset repayable over the term of the loan. And where there is a chain of loans as in this case, part of
the unpaid PPI premium from the loan being repaid find itself added to the new loan and so on...Page 3 of 3I suggest Black Horse didnt elaborate on this because of concerns about inappropriately
sharing data.
This does mean that the figures quoted in the final response letter of May 2020 should not
be seen as the total compensation owed or paid to Mr and Mrs S because they contain an
amount another party has an interest or share in. Its also the case, as Ive explained above,
that the figures contain a duplicated redress payment to Mr and Mrs S in 2019.
I have carried out a review of the calculations Black Horse has produced to arrive at Mrs S
share of the PPI compensation for these two loans, and Ive not seen anything to persuade
me theyve been carried out incorrectly or unfairly.
So in conclusion - Im satisfied that Black Horses compensation paid to Mr and Mrs S in
2013 took account of all the loans they jointly held and should have represented what they
were owed for the mis-sold PPI attached to these loans. But in fact they received more than
they should have done because of an error on Black Horses part in 2019 when it redressed
them again for one of the loans. And finally Im satisfied the compensation paid to Mrs S
for the two loans she was a party to  the first two loans in the complete chain of loans - has
been calculated fairly.
Because of this, I think Black Horse has done all that it fairly and reasonably needs to do in
compensating both Mr S and Mrs S for the PPI they took out with their loans.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make 
no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman