DRN-3406355
The complaint
Mr R has complained about delays by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited in 
making a pension transfer to his self-invested personal pension (SIPP).  
What happened
In March 2020 Mr R, through his financial adviser, started the process to transfer money 
from his Prudential retirement account to his SIPP. There were delays in completing the 
transfer, and it didnt complete until 11 May 2020.
Prudential accepted it had contributed to some of the delay, and paid Mr R £150 for the 
inconvenience caused. It also said it was willing to compensate him for any financial loss 
hed experienced, subject to production of calculations to demonstrate the loss.
But Prudential considered Mr Rs fund had benefited from the delay. While hed remained 
invested in the Prudential fund, it had received a positive unit price adjustment (UPA). If 
there had been no delay, Mr R wouldnt have remained in the fund and wouldnt have 
received the adjustment. Prudential considered this should be taken into account in the 
assessment of any loss. 
Mr R considered it was unfair for Prudential to try to remove the benefit of the UPA and 
referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that all parties 
were in agreement that the funds should have been available for investment on 1 May 2020. 
Prudentials five working day timescale for making the funds available meant the date for 
encashment shouldve been 27 April 2020. The investigator said a valuation of Mr Rs 
pension should be carried out, on the basis of encashment on 27 April, rather than 24 April 
as suggested by Prudential.
The investigator considered the £150 paid for inconvenience was fair.
Prudential didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It maintained that Mr R had 
benefited from the delay. It said it was willing to compensate him if he could show that any 
loss on the value of his SIPP was greater than the benefit hed received from the UPA.
Mr R, through his adviser, didnt agree with Prudentials response to the investigators 
conclusions.
Both parties asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the matter was 
referred accordingly.
A provisional decision was issued on 28 October 2021, in which the reasons as to why the 
complaint should be upheld were set out. The following extract from the provisional decision 
sets out that reasoning in detail:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator set out in detail the events leading up to the transfer, and the various delays 
that occurred during that time, so I wont repeat them here. But from what Ive seen, it seems 
both parties agree that if there hadnt been any delays the money wouldve been available 
for Mr Rs SIPP provider to invest on 1 May 2020.
But I considered that the better - and fairer - way to consider this, and to establish at what 
point the funds would have been disinvested from the existing pension fund had no delays 
been incurred, and then reinvested, is from the other way around. In essence, rather than 
using 1 May 2020 as the date at which point the funds could have reinvested, identify the 
actual date at which they would have been invested, had no delays been incurred. 
This involves taking into account what would have happened from 17 April 2020, when 
Prudentials documentation requirements were satisfied. 
At this point, the process for selling the existing units should have begun. Prudential had the 
request for three further working days before acting upon it, up to 22 April 2020  which was 
within its service standard of five days  at which point the sell down should have begun.
Prudential has said that this would have taken until 29 April 2020, but it remained unclear at 
what point in that process the funds would have actually been sold, and so effectively 
removed from the account.
And so weve asked Prudential as to what the sell down process in fact entailed to gain a 
better understanding of what would happen to the funds during that period.
In response, Prudential has reiterated that Mr R wouldnt have been financially 
disadvantaged if the funds had been disinvested before 27 April 2020. It has said that a sale 
of £1m worth of units on 27 April 2020 would have meant disinvestment of 567,859 units, 
whereas the number of units disinvested on 5 May 2020 resulted in 567,536 being sold. It 
said that, as a result of the delay, Mr R retained an additional 322 units, which as at the end 
of September 2021, was valued at £666.15. 
If the sale had occurred on 24 April 2020, this would have meant disinvestment of 581,395 
units  an additional 13,858 from Mr Rs plan.
It therefore maintained its stance that the delay has therefore benefited Mr R.
And this may well be the case. But I think to demonstrate to Mr R that this is the reality of the 
situation, Prudential should still supply him with a breakdown, with unit selling and buying 
and how this would have translated into monetary sums, as to what would have happened if 
no delays had been incurred and the existing units were sold down as they should have 
been after the process began on 22 April 202. The most likely date for this seems to be 23 
April 2020, given what Prudential said before about the date the units were sold after the 
actual sell down process had begun. The notional timeline should also then factor in the 
date that the units would have been bought in the new fund  and again, a reasonable 
assumption is that Prudential would have adhered to the same timescale as it actually then 
did, within its service standard, to buy the units in the new fund. 
And if, using the unit values Mr R would have received through the selling down and 
rebuying process having started on 22 April 2020, the current value of Mr Rs SIPP is less 
than it would have been if there had been no delay, Prudential should compensate him 
accordingly. But if the value is greater than it would have been without the delay, no 
compensation will be due. 
Putting things rightPrudential should obtain the notional value, as at the date of any final decision, of Mr Rs 
SIPP, on the basis that the selling down process started on 22 April 2020, that the funds 
were effectively removed from the account as they would have been (as above, it seems this 
would have been 23 April 2020, but Prudential can confirm this) and were then reinvested in 
the new SIPP as they would have been in accordance with that revised timeline. If this is 
less than the actual value of the SIPP as at the date of any final decision, theres a gain and 
no redress is payable. 
If it is more than the actual value of the SIPP, there is a loss and redress is due.
Any compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Rs SIPP. The
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to
allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr R hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to the likely income tax rate in
retirement  presumed to be 20%, but Im willing to hear alternative perspectives on this, 
given the size of Mr Rs pension fund. So making a notional reduction 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
As Ive said above, irrespective of the loss status, Prudential should provide Mr R with a 
breakdown of its calculation so that he may satisfy himself of the calculation method used to 
determine the outcome.
I consider the £150 already paid by Prudential in respect of the inconvenience caused by 
this matter is reasonable in the circumstances. Mr R had been left feeling uncertain as to 
whether hes been financially disadvantaged by the delay, but the amount paid seems to me 
to be the right kind of sum to compensate him for this  separate as it is from any payment in 
respect of actual financial loss caused.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr R said the following, in summary:
His understanding was that, as of the middle of November 2021, Prudential hadnt 
contacted IPM (the SIPP provider) to enquire as to the losses he had sustained.
He was aware that Prudential had both a one day and four day sell down process for 
PruFunds and used them interchangeably.
He therefore requested sight of the calculations of potential loss using both the 
one day and four days processes, along with a detailed justification for whichever 
one they deemed appropriate.
Prudential had nothing further to add, repeating its position that Mr R had benefitted from 
the UPA and that he was therefore better off.
Having considered the responses, I issued a further provisional decision on 3 February 
2022, in which I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the previous ombudsman. I 
appreciate Prudentials position that there would have been no loss to Mr R, but I think this 
needs to be demonstrated by way of the proposed calculation. And I also think the fairest 
way to approach the calculation is to work forward from the point at which the sell down 
process would have begun on 22 April 2020, rather than working back from 1 May 2017. I 
think the latter method may be the source of confusion as to when the units would actually 
have been sold.
Using that timeline, Prudential will then be able to determine what would have been 
bought, and when, in the subsequent SIPP, and compare the current notional value on 
that basis with the actual current value.
I note that Mr R has said that Prudential operated two sell down processes, but as with the 
previous ombudsman, I think the assumption should be that the process, once begun, would 
have followed the same pattern as it then actually did  but with the starting date of 22 April 
2020.
But I do agree that the calculation should be presented to Mr R in a clear and 
understandable format, as also proposed by the previous ombudsman.
I also agree that the sum of £150 already paid by Prudential in respect of the 
inconvenience caused to Mr R by this matter seems proportionate, given that any actual 
financial loss should be determined by the above calculation proposed by the previous 
ombudsman.
Prudential responded to say that it didnt dispute that delays had been caused regarding the 
partial transfer of Mr Rs funds. It also submitted a call recording in which it asked the IFA to 
supply the information required from IPM to enable Prudential to calculate any loss incurred 
by Mr R.
The IFA had confirmed that he had this information from IPM and that he would forward it  
but this didnt happen and this was the reason why the matter was referred to this service, 
Prudential said. During the call and in the final response letter, it had said that it would put 
Mr R back to the position he would have been in had the delays not occurred. 
It further said that, as it had confirmed in its final response letter, it needed to take into 
consideration the positive financial impact caused by the delays, but it was awaiting the 
information from IPM which would be supplied by the IFA.
It also submitted calculations which it said demonstrated the gain for Mr R as a result of the 
delays. It requested confirmation that they were in the right format, using the sell down date 
of 22 April 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Prudential for sending a copy of the calculations its undertaken in response to 
the provisional decision. I think to offer finality to both parties, and as the next logical step in 
the process, its best if I offer further commentary on what its done in the form of this final 
decision.
As far as I can tell, and on the basis that Prudential considers that, as part of the sell down 
process the unit encashment would have occurred on 22 April 2020 (as set out in the provisional decision, it should confirm this to Mr R), the principle of the calculation seems 
reasonable.
But there is then the additional step of obtaining the notional value, which should be at the 
date of this decision, of Mr Rs SIPP on the basis of the revised timeline. 
I think it may well be the case, on the basis of the calculation provided, that this is will result 
in a no loss situation for Mr R, and I appreciate that Prudential will need to obtain the 
relevant information from IPM to ensure that this is the case. As such, I acknowledge its 
comments relating to previous attempts to obtain the relevant information. Mr R, and/or his 
IFA, would need to cooperate with any information request, or if required provide a letter of 
authority for Prudential to request the information, but Im confident Mr R and/or his IFA will 
oblige.
And although Prudential has supplied a copy of its calculation in spreadsheet format, as I 
said in the provisional decision, it will also need to provide Mr R with a clear breakdown or 
explanation as to how its arrived at its outcome.
Putting things right
My view on the manner of calculating whether loss has been caused to Mr R remains the 
same as set out in the provisional decision, as does my view on the amount already paid to 
Mr R in respect of the inconvenience and uncertainty caused by the delays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require Prudential Life Assurance Company 
Limited to undertake the above, and if compensation is due to Mr R, make payment 
accordingly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman