DRN-4015551
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Lloyds Bank PLC allowed a payment to debit their account 
despite blocking payments on the account.
What happened
Mrs and Mr H say that they froze their debit cards and cancelled them as they believed a 
merchant would try to take payments that they had not authorised. Lloyds declined the 
merchants attempt to debit the account on seven occasions. But a transaction for a payment 
of £278.85 with a fee of £8.33 was paid to the merchant. Mrs H contacted Lloyds and once 
again requested no further payments to be taken from her cancelled card, but the merchant 
had scheduled another payment for £581.04. Mrs and Mr H made a complaint to Lloyds. 
Lloyds partially upheld Mrs and Mr Hs complaint and said it paid them £25 for poor service 
regarding raising a fraud claim for them. It said when Mrs H originally spoken with it, Lloyds 
said the reason the transaction had been successful despite the card freeze on overseas 
transactions, was because the merchant had processed the transaction from a United 
Kingdom (UK) subsidiary and as such the card freeze did not stop the payment. It said as 
per the terms and conditions of the card freeze, it cant guarantee that it will stop all 
transactions. Lloyds said as they willingly provided their card details to the merchant, and 
agreed to the merchants terms and conditions, the payment was considered an authorised 
charge. Lloyds said it refunded the amount of £541.04, but if the retailer is able to prove that 
the payment was valid, any refund will be taken back. Mrs and Mr H brought their complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs and Mr Hs complaint. She said Lloyds did block 
overseas payment attempts. She said Mrs H gave the merchant authority to take a payment 
from her Lloyds card initially. Mrs and Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint. They made a number of points. In summary, they said Lloyds had no authority to 
become involved in this dispute, as they should have simply adhered to the explicit 
instructions not to pay the merchant, and they should have adhered to their instructions not 
to allow this payment to go ahead. They said the fact that they stopped random requests for 
different amounts proves that it realised there was an issue with these transactions and it 
was at the time adhering to their instructions, so they asked what made Lloyds eventually 
allow the payment to go ahead against their instruction. Mrs and Mr H raised points about a 
chargeback which was raised on the £278.85 transaction after their complaint was made to 
Lloyds also.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make Mrs and Mr H aware that Im unable to consider anything theyve said about the 
£278.85 chargeback and how Lloyds have handled this, including Lloyds crediting the 
money back into their account, then re-debiting the money from their account. This is 
because these events occurred after Lloyds issued their final response to Mrs and Mr H in 
June 2022. As such, Lloyds have not given me consent to address the additional issues Mrs 
and Mr H have raised about this. Mrs and Mr H would need to raise a complaint first, directly 
with Lloyds if they are unhappy about how the chargeback process was handled. So here, 
my decision will only be able to focus on the events which were documented in the final 
decision letter Lloyds issued in June 2022. 
Mrs and Mr H have questioned what made Lloyds eventually go against their instruction after 
it had stopped random requests from the merchant originally. Ive looked at the freeze which 
was put on the card. I can see that on 5 June 2022, there was a card freeze for transactions 
abroad, online and remote transactions. As the merchant had originally tried to process the 
payment from abroad, this is why several payments were rejected by Lloyds. Then the 
merchant changed location to a UK subsidiary, and the way they categorised the payment 
meant this wasnt covered by the card freezes and this is why the payment debited Mrs and 
Mr Hs account. 
Lloyds terms and conditions show that We are not responsible for any loss, cost or charge 
you incur if we allow or decline a transaction you request and authorise despite having set 
up a card freeze. For example, offline transactions that are not referred to us for prior 
authorisation or where a retailer incorrectly describes the type of transaction you are making 
so it doesn't match a card freeze you have set up. Lloyds website regarding card freezes 
also shows We also rely on transactions being categorised correctly. In the rare case that 
this doesnt happen, we cant always stop the transaction through Card freezes. 
So as it appears that the merchant incorrectly categorised the payment, this is why the 
payment debited from Mrs and Mr Hs account as opposed to when it had been attempted 
previously from abroad. As Lloyds terms and conditions and website show that they cant 
always stop transactions through card freezes, then I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the 
debit of the payment if the merchant has incorrectly categorised the payment, as this would 
be out of Lloyds control.
Lloyds were unable to raise the transaction as fraudulent as it says Mrs H willingly provided 
her card details to the merchant, and agreed to the merchants terms and conditions, so the 
payment is considered an authorised charge. But it has admitted that it provided poor 
customer service in relation to this and paid Mrs and Mr H £25. Mrs H was on the phone for 
1 hour 15 minutes before the line disconnected and she had to ring back. The compensation 
is in line with what we would expect it to pay here. So it follows that I dont require Lloyds to 
do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman