DRN-3735803
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the service received from CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-
NV when she was admitted to hospital for urgent treatment. 
What happened
Mrs As complaint is brought on her behalf by her husband. But for ease, I will refer to all 
representations as having been made by Mrs A herself. 
Mrs A is a beneficiary of a private medical insurance policy, provided through her husbands 
employer. Mr and Mrs A previously held their cover through another provider, and this was 
changed to a policy with CIGNA with effect from 1 May 2021. 
Mrs A was admitted to hospital the day after the new policy with CIGNA started. At this time, 
Mr and Mrs A had been provided with details of the policy terms by Mr As employer, but had 
not received all of their documentation about the policy. Mr A attempted to contact CIGNA 
and had difficulties getting through on the phone due to long wait times. He said he tried 
over several days, and also used a call back facility, but he was not contacted.  
Ultimately Mrs A received care in an NHS hospital and was not transferred to a private 
facility. She underwent surgery and stayed in hospital for more than three weeks overall. 
She made a claim for the NHS hospital benefit available under the policy, however this was 
declined as CIGNA said Mrs A had been admitted to hospital as an emergency and did not 
have pre-planned treatment. 
Whilst Mrs A had still been in the NHS hospital receiving treatment and care, Mr A had 
asked if nursing at home was covered under the policy, and CIGNA said it wasnt. However 
Mr A later found this was covered, based on the terms and conditions CIGNA said applied to 
the policy.
Mrs A complained to CIGNA about the level of service received, information provided about 
the cover, and the declinature of the claim. 
CIGNA said it had been correct to decline the claim for hospital benefit, as Mrs As 
circumstances didnt meet the policy terms. It acknowledged Mrs A had been provided with a 
differing member guide, but said the policy wording was the same, and the admission would 
not have been covered under either set of wording.  
It said although the policy included a nursing benefit, there hadnt been a recommendation 
from a medical practitioner that this was necessary. And it agreed there had been long wait 
times when Mr A had tried to get in touch, and offered £100 in compensation. 
Unhappy with CIGNAs response, Mrs A brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened, and said they thought CIGNA had 
correctly declined the claim for hospital benefit. However they thought the £100 CIGNA had 
offered for the distress and inconvenience it had caused Mrs A was insufficient. And they 
recommended this be increased to £350.
CIGNA accepted the investigators view. However Mrs A disagreed with some of the 
investigators conclusions. In summary she said nursing at home was covered and she 
would like to obtain a letter from the treating doctor confirming this was needed. And the 
care received on the NHS ward was not to the same standard as would have been available 
privately. She said a private room would have made a huge difference to her experience and 
the lack of nursing at home meant her recovery was longer and more painful than it needed 
to be.
Mrs A asked for a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say CIGNA has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Firstly, I should set out that Mrs A has made a detailed submission about her complaint. If I 
havent commented on a particular point in my decision, this doesnt mean I havent 
considered it. Im not required to comment on each and every point, but instead Im 
concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this; it 
simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
And Ive not considered the issues around the set-up of the policy. Mr As employer provided 
the first set of terms and conditions to Mr and Mrs A. And as Mr As employer is the 
policyholder, it would need to bring any complaint about the policy set-up and documents it 
received from CIGNA.
NHS hospital benefit 
The terms and conditions Mrs A received at the point of taking out the policy include the 
following exclusion related to this benefit.
Whats not covered: NHS Cash benefits are not paid when you are admitted to 
hospital for any treatment that has not been pre-planned.
And the below exclusion is stated in the terms and conditions CIGNA said are the correct 
ones for the policy. 
Whats not covered: NHS Cash benefits are not paid when you are admitted to 
hospital following a visit to Accident & Emergency.
Ive considered both versions of the exclusion, however in either case, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for CIGNA to decline the claim for this benefit. Im satisfied Mrs A was 
admitted to hospital via Accident and Emergency and her treatment was not pre-planned. 
Whilst I appreciate what Mrs As has said about being unable to see her GP on the Sunday, I 
dont think this makes a difference in the application of the exclusion. I think its reasonable 
to expect that if Mrs As situation wasnt an emergency, she could have waited until the next 
day to see her GP to get a referral for treatment. Nursing at home benefit 
Both sets of terms and conditions provide the same wording in relation to nursing at home. 
And this is as follows. 
Cover may be provided for home nursing instead of hospital treatment provided 
under the plan where this is medically necessary and recommended by your 
specialist.
Whats covered: This cover applies to Level 2 & 3 only. Cover may be provided for 
home nursing instead of hospital treatment provided under the plan where this is 
medically necessary and recommended by your specialist. In all cases, home nursing 
for cancer treatment will only be paid for active treatment.
Im aware Mr A was wrongly advised during a call with CIGNA, that there was no cover for 
nursing at home under the policy. And Ive commented on this further in this decision. 
However, in terms of the cover available, I dont think CIGNA acted unreasonably in its 
decision that nursing at home wouldnt have been covered in Mrs As particular 
circumstances. And I say that because the terms clearly state nursing at home must be 
medically necessary and recommended by the treating specialist. And the evidence Ive 
seen doesnt show that this was the case. 
Ive considered Mrs As points around this not being recommended due to her being on an 
NHS ward, and having been told nursing at home wasnt covered under the policy. However, 
Im not persuaded this would have deterred her treating specialists from recommended 
nursing at home if it was medically necessary in her circumstances. 
Mrs A has said it may be possible to obtain a retrospective letter from the specialist about 
the need for nursing at home. If thats the case, she can provide the new evidence directly to 
CIGNA and ask it to assess it. And if shes unhappy with its answer, she can raise a further 
complaint. 
Customer service 
CIGNA has acknowledged that it caused distress and inconvenience to Mrs A, both due to 
its long wait times when Mr A initially tried to get in touch, and in the confusion around the 
correct policy terms in force and whether or not nursing benefit was included. And it offered 
£100 in compensation. 
Ive considered whether or not I think this level of compensation is reflective of the impact 
caused to Mrs A. I dont think that it is, and Ill explain why. 
Had Mr A been able to contact CIGNA sooner, I think its most likely Mrs A would have been 
able to receive treatment privately rather than on the NHS. However Ive also noted an email 
Mr A sent to CIGNA four days after Mrs A had been admitted to hospital, which stated Mrs A 
doesnt intend on using a private hospital / ward currently since she feels those most 
familiar with her case are where she is.
I appreciate it would have been distressing to have been unable to speak with the insurer 
when in an ongoing claim situation, plus the later confusion over the correct policy terms. 
However Ive also thought about the demands on CIGNA which were beyond its control. And 
Ive taken into account what CIGNA did to put things right once Mr A was able to get in 
touch; I note it agreed it was possible for Mrs A to transfer to a private hospital ward, 
providing this was medically approved. And I think that was reasonable. However, at that point Mrs A was scheduled for surgery and her treating doctor advised she should remain in 
the NHS ward where she was receiving treatment. 
CIGNA incorrectly advised Mr A around the cover for nursing at home, however as explained 
above, this wasnt recommended as necessary by the specialists treating Mrs A, so I dont 
think this error had a significant impact on her.
Ive also thought about Mrs As comments around the difference in the care she would likely 
have received privately over the NHS, and what she has said about the prolonging of her 
recovery. However Ive seen no evidence which persuades me there were failings in the 
care Mrs A received in the NHS hospital. And theres also no evidence supplied which 
shows private care would have sped up her recovery period. 
Putting things right
Overall I think the £350 recommended by the investigator more accurately reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs A. In particular in being unable to make contact 
with CIGNA for advice for several days after she was first admitted to hospital. So CIGNA 
should pay £250 in addition to the £100 it had already offered in compensation.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV to pay Mrs A £350 in compensation for the 
overall distress and inconvenience caused. 
CIGNA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs A 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman