DRN-2700239
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Liberty Insurance dacs decision to decline a claim he made 
under a home insurance policy he holds jointly with Mrs M. Mr M made a claim for storm 
damage to an outbuilding.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr M said an outbuilding hey used to store firewood was damaged by a 
named storm. He didnt make a claim until December 2018 as he thought damage to 
outbuildings wasnt covered under his policy. 
Liberty instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to attend and they took photos of the damaged shed. 
They explained that the construction of the shed would need to be reviewed against the 
policy wording. 
Liberty said that because the shed wasnt built of a standard construction, it wouldnt meet 
Mr Ms claim. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator explained that it wasnt in dispute that the 
damage had been caused by a storm. But Libertys decision was based on their policy 
wording which said that outbuildings needed to be of a standard construction, but garden 
sheds didnt. The investigator said the LA described the outbuilding as a shed. As Liberty 
didnt define the term shed he thought it should meet Mr Ms claim. 
Liberty didnt agree. It said the dictionary definition of a garden shed is to describe a small 
shed to hold garden tools. It said the LA didnt describe the shed as a garden shed. And Mr 
M described the shed as an outbuilding when he made his claim. Liberty said their policy 
wording says it will cover damage to the home and outbuildings provided they are of 
standard construction, including sheds. The construction standard doesnt apply to garden 
sheds. As Mr Ms shed was clearly not a garden shed, it needed to meet the standard 
construction requirement. As it didnt, Liberty said it had correctly rejected the claim. 
So as Liberty didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Liberty accepts that storm conditions occurred and the damage is consistent with storm and 
the main cause of damage. The remaining issue for me to decide is whether Libertys 
decision to reject the claim was reasonable under the remaining terms of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy with Liberty says it will provide cover for loss or damage caused by 
storm to the home. Liberty provides the following definitions in their policy booklet: 
Home
The private dwelling, and outbuildings at the premises shown in the schedule. The 
Home must be built of standard construction (walls built of brick, stone or concrete 
and roofed with tiles or slates, or a flat roof covered with asphalt), other than garden 
sheds, greenhouses and summerhouses, unless described differently under any 
endorsement.
Outbuildings
Sheds, greenhouses, summer houses, garages and other buildings (but not 
caravans, mobile homes or motor homes) which do not form part of the main 
buildings of the home, used for domestic purposes only.
So I think from the policy wording that Liberty will provide cover for outbuildings including 
sheds, provided they are of the construction set out under the home definition. However, 
garden sheds do not need to meet the same requirement. 
The LA referred to the outbuilding as being a shed, or outbuilding. I agree that they at no 
point referred to the building as a garden shed. They described the construction of the 
sheds frame as timber and iron and the roof as being of corrugated metal sheets. The LA 
concluded in their report that they would appreciate advice as to whether Liberty would 
deem this construction as standard construction as it isnt as described in the definition 
under the policy. 
Ive looked at photos of the shed provided by the LA. From them I think its clear that the 
outbuilding is a shed, and may not be what Liberty intended to cover loss or damage for. It 
says the estimated rebuild costs for the shed is around £13,000 and so they say this 
demonstrates it is a large structure. 
Libertys policy draws a distinction between a shed and a garden shed in terms of 
construction of an outbuilding and what Liberty is prepared to insure for loss or damage. And 
Liberty has provided us with dictionary definitions of what a garden shed could be described 
as - being a small shed. 
However, example definitions say that a garden shed could be used to house for example; 
bikes, DIY tools or other equipment. And images of garden sheds online include - as an 
example - an outbuilding housing firewood. 
An insurers policy wording should be clear and not misleading. Without setting out a 
definition of what Liberty understands the difference to be between a shed and garden shed 
under the policy, it then becomes a matter of interpretation. This leads to ambiguity and this 
isnt fair for a customer - as they may interpret the wording to mean they are insured for 
something they arent. In this case, I think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs M  or anyone - 
to believe the shed they used to store firewood could be either a garden shed or shed  as it 
wasnt defined under the policy.
Liberty says that the dispute relates to whether the damaged item was an outbuilding, rather 
than a sole dispute as to the definition of a shed. And Liberty says Mr M referred to the 
structure himself as an outbuilding. But I dont think this makes a difference. I think Mr M 
may have misunderstood that because the shed was an outbuilding, it was covered 
irrespective of the structure. But if Liberty had rejected the claim for this reason with a clear 
definition of a garden shed, this wouldnt have been wrong. 
So I dont think Liberty can reasonably apply the exclusion it has to reject Mr Ms claim. I 
dont think the policy wording clearly explained Libertys definition of a garden shed or shed 
to Mr and Mrs M. And therefore I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for Liberty to meet 
their claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Liberty Insurance dac to meet Mr 
and Mrs Ms claim for storm damage to their shed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman