DRN-3825726
The complaint
Ms B complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited unfairly accepted her as the guarantor on a friends
(the borrower) loan.
What happened
1Plus1 Loans provided the borrower with a loan for £3,000 in September 2017. It was
repayable over 60 months. The monthly repayments were around £114 and in total the
borrower agreed to pay back about £6,900 over the five years, once interest was added. The
loan was secured by way of a guarantee, with Ms B standing as guarantor.
Sadly, the borrower died a few months into the loan term and the monthly repayments
stopped being made to the loan. So 1Plus1 Loans turned to Ms B as guarantor to repay the
loan. In around May 2018 Ms B reluctantly repaid the loan in full.
When Ms B asked the borrowers husband why the estate couldnt pay back the balance of
the loan, she was told the borrower had lots of similar and higher value loans that she was
struggling to pay back when she died. So Ms B complained to 1Plus1 Loans that it hadnt
carried out proper checks when it lent to the borrower.
1Plus1 Loans said it did check whether the loan was affordable, both for Ms B and the
borrower and they both had enough disposable income to make the loan repayments. After
the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman, 1Plus1 Loans did offer to pay back
some of the money Ms B had paid towards the loan as a gesture of goodwill  the amount
shed paid above the £3,000 originally borrowed, plus interest.
Ms B didnt accept 1Plus1 Loans offer as she wanted all of the money shed paid towards
the loan refunded, plus interest.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and explained why I thought this 
complaint should be upheld. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs complaint.
Among other things, 1Plus1 Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't
lend to the borrower irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate
checks to satisfy itself that both the borrower and Ms B, if necessary, would be able to pay
the loan in a sustainable way.
I dont think theres any dispute that Ms B could afford to repay the loan if the borrower
didnt. So the outcome of this complaint turns on the checks 1Plus1 Loans did on the
borrower, the borrowers circumstances at the time, and whether 1Plus1 Loans made a fair
decision to lend to the borrower.
Understandably, 1Plus1 Loans has been reluctant to share too much information about the
borrowers circumstances. But it has given us some details of the checks it did and
information it gathered about the borrower. I have had to base my decision on this
information, together with what Ms B has told us.
1Plus1 Loans did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. But given the
total cost of repaying the money the borrower was borrowing, the information she had
provided about her income and expenditure, together with the information on her credit file, I
dont think 1Plus1 Loans checks were good enough. Specifically, I dont think it reacted
appropriately to the data it gathered when it made its lending decision.
Based on 1Plus1 Loans checks, it concluded the borrower had a monthly disposable
income that would easily cover the repayments for the new loan. But the information 1Plus1
Loans had from the borrowers credit file, shows this was unlikely.
The borrower had a relatively large amount of outstanding debt already and she was behind
with her payments towards at least one of her accounts. While the available information
doesnt necessarily suggest the borrower was in dire financial difficulties, there were some
signs she was already struggling financially. And it does throw doubt on whether the
information the borrower had given about her outgoings was accurate. I would have
expected 1Plus1 Loans to do some extra checks to verify the information.
The borrower told 1Plus1 Loans she was borrowing to consolidate some of her debts,
including the account that was in arrears. So by taking out the loan with 1Plus1 Loans, the
borrower was borrowing further to repay the credit she already had and couldnt afford.
Giving someone who is already in financial difficulties additional credit, is unlikely to be
considered responsible.
I appreciate the new loan may have decreased the borrowers monthly outgoings, but the
reason it likely will have done this is because it had been taken over a longer term, meaning
shed be paying more interest and be indebted for longer. I think the costs of consolidating
some of her debts and the disadvantages of prolonging the time the borrower would likely be
indebted outweighed any perceived benefit. From the information 1Plus1 Loans had, I think
it ought to have recognised that taking further lending was unlikely to help the borrower
make inroads into her overall existing debt position.
As Ive said, Ive had to make this provisional decision with limited information. If 1Plus1
Loans can show me the borrower wasnt in financial difficulties when she took out the loan,
then I ask it to do so when it responds. But based on the information I have, I think theres
enough to say the loan more likely than not wasnt affordable for the borrower. So I currently
think it was wrong of 1Plus1 Loans to give the loan to the borrower.
It follows that Ms B would never have been guarantor for the loan and would never had been
required to make any payments towards it.
Ms B responded to say she accepted the provisional decision. 1Plus1 Loans responded to 
say it didnt. In summary, it said:
It could not disclose any sensitive financial information about the borrower.
The borrower had over £500 surplus income each month, which shows she wasnt in 
a cycle of debt. And her income was independently verified. The amount of debt the 
borrower had isnt indicative of a person in financial difficulties.
Consumers will often repay debt in smaller installments and will often want to 
consolidate debts as they are being charged a higher level of interest or want to have one convenient payment.
Ms B agreed to make the payments if the borrower couldnt. The borrower made all 
the payments on time, while she was still alive. She didnt contact 1Plus1 Loans to 
say she was in financial difficulty. All tangible evidence points to the fact the borrower 
could afford the loan.
The information provided by the borrowers husband is hearsay evidence and it isnt 
fair or reasonable to take it into account.
The investigator incorrectly said 1Plus1 Loans had accepted and upheld the 
complaint. It had only ever made a goodwill offer to settle the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to review this complaint afresh. So what the investigator did and said before me 
hasnt influenced my decision. I understand that in making the offer it did, 1Plus1 Loans 
wasnt accepting it had done anything wrong by giving the borrower the loan or accepting 
Ms B as guarantor. 
I understand why 1Plus1 Loans wont provide details of all the information it has about the 
borrower. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what is more likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
I also want to explain that as an informal alternative to the courts, the rules relating to 
hearsay evidence arent relevant. I will consider all evidence thats presented to me and its 
my job to determine how much weight, if any, to place on the different evidence available. In 
this case, Im satisfied that the evidence provided by 1Plus1 Loans suggests the borrower 
was struggling financially. And what the borrowers husband told Ms B just supports this.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the information 1Plus1 Loans had from the 
borrowers credit file shows it was unlikely she did have the level of disposable income 
1Plus1 Loans concluded she had. I appreciate some people might neglect some of their 
smaller debts, such as catalogue shopping and mobile phone accounts. But in my 
experience this isnt usually what wed see when someone has surplus income of over £500 
a month. Someone who is has that level of disposable income is unlikely to want to suffer 
the consequences of not repaying a debt if they could easily afford to do so.
Similarly, I accept some people might want the convenience of a consolidating smaller 
debts, so they only need to make one payment. People also might not repay a debt in full, 
even though they can afford to do so. But I do question whether many people with a spare 
£500 a month would really choose to take out a loan where theyll be paying back more than 
twice as much as they borrowed, for the sake of convenience and if they could afford to 
repay the debt without doing so.
The Finance and Leasing Association (the FLA) suggested in its Lending Code as long ago 
as 2006 that having four or more credit commitments and/or spending more than 25% of 
gross income on consumer credit might suggest that there was a higher risk of financial 
difficulty. I acknowledge that such risk factors werent included in the FLAs 2012 Lending 
Code  nor the amended version of that in 2014. But since then, the Office of National 
Statistics (the ONS) has included in its definition of problem debt:
(1) households whose debt repayments were/are at least 25% of its net monthly income; or 
(2) households whose debt to net annual income is higher than 20%. And as 1Plus1 Loans is no doubt aware, debt can be both an immediate and a longer-term 
problem for a households material standard of living if the costs of servicing the debt take up 
too large a proportion of the households income. Presumably this is why it tests both annual 
unsecured debt to income and monthly payment to monthly income ratios as part of its pre-
payout checks. The more income a consumer needs to make available for repayments and 
the longer they need to make the repayments for, the more risk there is that theyll find the 
borrowing unsustainable.
The level of the borrowers income isnt in dispute. I accept it was independently verified. But 
what we know from this is that the borrower didnt have a high income. And while her level of 
indebtedness  28% of her net income was spent servicing unsecured debt  doesnt 
conclusively show she was in financial difficulties, it was relatively high. This, when put 
together with what else we know, adds weight to the idea that the borrower wasnt in the 
strong financial position 1Plus1 Loans suggests she was.
The fact the borrower was able to make the payments to the loan for the months before she 
died might suggest it was affordable. But we dont know how she managed to make those 
payments. Its possible the borrower needed to borrow to repay this loan, which would mean 
she wasnt able to pay it in a sustainable way. So this alone isnt enough to say the loan was 
affordable.
Having weighed up all the available evidence, and for the reasons set out here and in my 
provisional decision, I think its more likely the borrower wasnt in a position to sustainably 
repay the loan 1Plus1 Loans gave her. If 1Plus1 Loans hadnt given the borrower the loan, 
Ms B would never have been guarantor or make any payments towards it.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business 
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Ms B in
the position she would now be in if she hadnt been guarantor on this loan.
As Ms B should never have been accepted as a guarantor on this loan, it is unfair and
unreasonable for her to have made any loan payments. So, 1Plus1 Loans should pay her
back everything she paid towards the loan.
Ms B will have lost the use of those funds and I think that she should be compensated for
this. We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where someone hasnt had the
use of funds because its actions resulted in something having gone wrong. I see no reason
to depart from our usual approach here.
So this is how I currently think 1Plus1 Loans should put things right:
refund any loan payments Ms B made including the sum she paid to fully repay the 
debt. And to each of those sums, it must add 8% simple interest* a year, from the 
date Ms B paid them to the date the refund is paid to her.
remove any adverse information about this loan from Ms Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1
Loans should give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for
one. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited should put things right for Ms B in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman