The complaint
Mr M has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited hasnt paid him enough 
under his motor insurance for his vehicle after it was stolen.
What happened
Mr M claimed on his policy after his vehicle was stolen. Admiral accepted Mr Ms claim and 
after consulting a motor trade guide (CAP) valued his vehicle at £6,600. Mr M wasnt happy 
with the amount his car was valued at as he was unable to find a like for like vehicle for that 
price.
Admiral then attempted to obtain valuations from the remaining trade guides. While two of 
the guides didnt provide a valuation, one (Cazana) gave a higher valuation of £8,753. 
Admiral agreed to value Mr Ms vehicle at the higher valuation. 
Mr M looked at vehicles available to buy and explained that he was still unable to buy a 
similar vehcile for that price. Mr M has provided adverts showing similar vehicles for sale all 
above the amount Admiral valued his vehicle at.
Admiral refused to value Mr Ms vehicle any higher than the highest valuation it had obtained 
from the available guides, so Mr M brought his complaint to this service to be reviewed.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint. He consulted the same trade guides and 
found the Cazana guide gave a higher valuation of £10,413. Further investigation found that 
Cazana had updated its valuation tool and said the new figure was an accurate reflection of 
the value of Mr Ms vehicle at the time it was stolen.
As the valuations given by each of the two guides varied so much our investigator decided to 
look at similar cars that were available for sale. Having reviewed the advertised vehicles our 
investigator thought the valuation obtained from the CAP guide wasnt accurate and that
Mr Ms vehicle should be valued at £10,000.  As Admiral had previously valued Mr Ms 
vehicle at £8,753 our investigator recommended that Admiral should pay him the difference 
of £1,247 plus 8% simple interest from the date of the previous settlement.
Admiral disagreed with our investigator. It explained that it had followed our usual approach 
of using the available trade guides to value Mr Ms vehicle and that the valuations obtained 
at the time would have been the most accurate. 
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1451520Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided 
to uphold it.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say the maximum it will pay if Mr Ms car is stolen 
is the Market Value. Market Value is defined in the policy as The cost of replacing your 
car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices 
at the time of the loss. 
Admiral used the available trade guides to value Mr Ms vehicle. We generally find the 
trade guides persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. And 
on this occasion Admiral used the highest of the figures provided by the guides at the time.
But not all the guides gave a value for Mr Ms vehicle and the two that did were not in line 
with each other. CAP gave an initial valuation of £6,600 and Cazana £8,753. When the 
investigator consulted the guides the valuations obtained were even more out of line with 
each other. Cazana gave a valuation of £10,413. When Cazana was asked about the 
discrepancy in the valuations obtained by Admiral and our service it explained that it had 
updated its valuation tool and the valuation of £10,413 was more accurate for the time
Mr Ms vehicle was stolen. 
As Cazana has told us the valuation of £10,413 is the most accurate figure I think its 
reasonable for us to take this as the value it places on Mr Ms car at the time it was stolen.
The figures £6,600 and £10,413 are so far apart I think it is reasonable to consider additional 
information such as what similar vehicles were being advertised at around the time Mr Ms 
car was stolen. I think Admiral should have done this at the time.
The adverts provided show asking prices for similar cars ranging from around £10,000 to 
£14,000. Having considered all the available evidence, I dont think the valuation reached by 
Admiral was fair and a more reasonable valuation would be £10,000.
Admiral should pay Mr M the difference in what it has already paid him in settlement of his 
claim, and the reasonable figure of £10,000 (£1,247). It should also add 8% simple interest 
to this figure from the date of the original settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr M £1,247 
plus 8% simple interest from the date it made the original settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman