DRN-4130193
The complaint
Miss T complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim under a 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Miss T contacted Aviva to send an engineer to deal with a boiler fault. The engineer visited a 
couple of days later and found a part needed to be replaced. However, the part was 
obsolete. Miss T was told the boiler could be replaced free of charge under the policy if she 
paid the installation costs. It took several more days for the boiler to be installed. 
Miss T complained as she said she had to chase at each stage to progress her claim. She 
also said she was left without heating and hot water and was a vulnerable customer. When 
Aviva replied, it said Miss T should have been informed of the obsolete parts earlier than she 
was and there were longer call waiting times than normal. It said people should have been 
as helpful as possible when they spoke to Miss T and it also took a lot longer than it should 
have to install the boiler. It offered £190 compensation.
When Miss T complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
Miss T told Aviva she had been without heating and hot water for 22 days. Miss T was a 
vulnerable customer with health issues and it was a cold time of year. She said Aviva should 
pay a total of £400 compensation.
As Aviva didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Miss T first contacted Aviva at the beginning of the week before Christmas to report an issue 
with her boiler. An engineer visited a couple of days later, but couldnt source the required 
part. So, the boiler was replaced under the policy. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Miss 
T didnt have heating and hot water for more than three weeks from when she first reported 
the issue to when the boiler was then installed. Aviva also seemed to accept Miss T had to 
follow up to progress the claim and that there were issues with doing so. It has told this 
service, it thinks the claim, from beginning to end, took nine days longer than it should have, 
but that £400 is an excessive amount, even for a vulnerable customer.
So, Ive thought about this. I think any customer who doesnt have heating or hot water for 
about three weeks is going to face a fair degree of inconvenience and discomfort. Miss T 
was a vulnerable customer with health conditions that were likely to be affected by a lack of 
heating and hot water. Aviva has also noted that there were bank holidays over the 
Christmas period, which impacted the ability to progress the boiler installation. Although Im 
mindful of that, Aviva also accepted it should have taken action more promptly when its 
engineer found that parts were obsolete. Because it didnt do so, it meant no progress was 
made until much closer to Christmas and, even then, only after Miss T chased for updates.
I think the overall handling of the claim was poor and that Miss Ts claim wasnt progressed 
with any clear sense of urgency or sensitivity, taking into she was a vulnerable customer 
without heating and hot water at a cold time of year. It was also commonly known 
information that there were bank holidays in the days ahead, which meant delays in the 
week before Christmas might make it harder to promptly resolve issues. I think this 
increased the need to progress the claim as promptly as possible, but Aviva didnt do so.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think Aviva should pay a total of £400 compensation, 
which includes the £190 it previously offered. I think this more fairly reflects the impact on 
Miss T of the delays in progressing her claim.
Im aware Miss T was also concerned by the installation cost of the boiler. However, I 
havent seen evidence this was part of the complaint made to Aviva, so I am unable to 
comment on this. Miss T would need to raise this with Aviva, so it can consider it.
Putting things right
Aviva should pay Miss T a total of £400 compensation, which includes the £190 it previously 
offered.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Miss T a total of £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman