DRN-1776922
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about Inter Partner Assistance SA ("IPA") unfairly and 
unreasonably declining his claim under a travel insurance policy. They want the claim 
accepted.
Background
Mr R had a travel insurance policy with IPA, covering himself and Mrs R. They 
booked a holiday on 29 April 2019, and Mrs R was diagnosed with breast cancer on 
9 May 2019. The holiday was cancelled and a claim made to IPA.
IPA declined the claim as it said the condition was pre-existing and hadnt been 
declared to it.
Mr R complained to IPA about its decision to decline his claim and the handling of it.
IPA said that it shouldnt have asked for the same information more than once, or 
sent confusing text messages, particularly given the sensitivity of the situation. It also 
accepted that it shouldve been clearer that Mr R had to get information from the GP 
himself at his own cost, but said it was right to decline the claim based on the 
information it currently held. 
IPA pointed out that the trip was booked on the same day Mrs R went to see the GP, 
and it was when the symptoms arose that was critical  it didnt think that a GP would 
carry out a breast examination if there were no symptoms. IPA noted that the GP 
found a large mass and fast-tracked Mrs R, and believed Mrs R knew about the 
mass beforehand, though not necessarily its size or severity. IPA offered £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its handling of the claim. It then 
reviewed the claim in light of new information and continued to decline it.
Mr R didnt agree and brought the complaint to us. He said that the doctors had said 
his wife wouldnt have known she had cancer before the holiday was booked.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld
Mr R doesnt agree.
 
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should not be upheld for these reasons: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions of the policy say that it doesnt cover claims for cancellation 
arising directly or indirectly from any pre-existing medical condition, and goes on to 
say that such a condition is one which has given rise to symptoms or for which any 
form of treatmentmedical consultation, investigation or follow up/check up has 
been required or received during the two years prior to commencement of cover 
under this policy and/or prior to any trip.. This is a highlighted exclusion and it is made clear if you book a trip while having or waiting for a medical test or 
investigation, you are not covered, even if the issue appears insignificant to a doctor.
Due to the terms above, its relevant to understand what symptoms Mrs R was 
suffering before going to see the GP, but not essential as by the time the holiday was 
booked, Mrs R had been fast tracked for further investigation. While I understand 
Mr R says that the appointment wasnt originally about her breast, something 
triggered the breast examination by the GP. I note that a consultant has written to 
say Mrs R wouldnt have known about the mass due to its location, but this doesnt 
explain why the examination was carried out or the decision to book the holiday after 
Mrs R saw the GP and referred urgently for more investigation.
The information IPA received from Mr R (supported by the contact notes written at 
the time which as contemporaneous documents I can rely upon) was that Mrs R did 
mention a lump in her breast to the GP. The holiday was booked after this 
appointment while Mrs R was waiting for investigations to be carried out. This is a fair 
and reasonable basis for IPA to conclude that the need for further medical 
consultation and investigation regarding the breast was known at the time of booking 
the trip, and certainly within 12 months of the start of the trip. The trip appears to be 
booked the same evening Mr R said he discussed his wifes health and the option to 
get private treatment with her.
The information sent to IPA by the GP practice was limited as the GP who saw Mrs R 
had been a locum and was no longer at the practice. It forwarded the notes of the 
consultation which said Mrs R had presented with signs and symptoms affecting the 
right breast, and she was fast tracked for further investigations as someone 
suspected as suffering from breast cancer. The lump was described as quite large 
and there is nothing about any other issue being raised by Mrs R.
Doctors are not permitted under the General Medical Councils rules about medical 
practice and intimate examinations to carry them out for no reason. And I place great 
weight on the notes made at the time about the medical consultation carried out as 
they are intended to be the definitive record of what happened, and again there are 
rules about medical records with which doctors must comply. The GP said Mrs R 
attended suffering from signs and symptoms of an issue affecting her breast, and this 
caused the examination. I accept this account and it means that its fair and 
reasonable for IPA to say that there were symptoms existing before the holiday was 
booked and before the trip was due to occur.
But critically, theres no dispute that Mrs R was fast tracked as someone suspected 
as having cancer at the GP appointment, but the holiday wasnt booked and paid for 
until that evening (I dont regard getting a quote for the holiday as the same as 
booking it as theres no contract in place). Mrs R was waiting for further medical 
consultation and likely investigations at that time. This alone justifies the decline.
I note £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the handling of the 
claim has been offered. While money never truly compensates for trouble and upset 
suffered, and given much of Mr Rs upset is about the decline of the claim, I think this 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman