DRN-3351900
The complaint
Company L complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have mishandled its public liability 
insurance claim as it disagrees with the basis upon which the insurer agreed to settle the 
claim with the third party. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
I appreciate that Company L strenuously disputes any liability for the breakdown of the third-
party vehicle and says its mechanic didnt drain the differential oil; the plug had only been 
removed for the independent engineer to take an oil sample. However, this service isnt able 
to rule on the cause of the breakdown and neither can we say whether legal liability would 
rest with Company L, as that would be a matter for qualified experts and/or the courts to 
determine. What I can consider is whether AXA have handled the claim fairly by deciding to 
settle it based on the evidence and advice they have received., rather than choosing to 
defend liability.
The policy terms and conditions state that the insured must 
allow [AXA] to take over and conduct in your name the defence or settlement of any 
claim. 
The policy terms and conditions essentially give AXA a contractual right to settle the claim 
how they see fit. It is the insurers right of subrogation, and they do not need the agreement 
or consent of the policyholder to either pursue, defend or settle any claim with a third party. 
However, the insurers decision in this regard should still be reasonable in light of all the 
evidence available and the circumstances of the claim. 
Toward that end, I can see that AXA sought and relied on the advice of an independent 
engineer who had inspected the vehicle and concluded:
It has now been determined that the differential drain plug had been removed 
recently and the replenishing plug had not. However, the haldex replenishing plug 
had been recently worked suggesting the differential had been left devoid of oil. 
The report was referred to AXAs in-house engineer, who also took Company Ls testimony 
into account. But having considered the evidence, the engineer was of the opinion that AXA 
should settle the claim:
I really feel for the insured on this case, it is easy to blame the repairer, but I do 
genuinely believe we are on a hiding to nothing by defending something we cannot 
prove. The evidence is stacked against us. I would not like to take this to court.
 I appreciate that Company L refute any claim that it was in any way responsible for the 
vehicles breakdown. But as things stand, it hasnt submitted any alternative independent 
evidence of its own to demonstrate that the report and findings of the engineer are patently 
wrong. It has offered its own opinion and version of events on the matter, which is 
understandable given the nature of its business. But Company Ls own views on this matter 
cannot reasonably outweigh that of an independent expert because even where a 
policyholder is qualified to do so, it cannot act as an independent expert in its own cause.
So, AXAs decision to settle the claim was based upon the findings of the independent 
engineer, photographs of the damage in question, and the conclusions of their own in-house 
engineer, which was that the differential had been damaged in such a way that could be 
consistent with a lack of adequate lubrication. It was clearly a difficult decision to make, but 
ultimately there was enough circumstantial evidence to corroborate the third parties 
allegations, and not enough evidence from Company L to be able to refute them. And given 
the evidence presented, Im not persuaded AXAs decision to settle can be said to have 
been irrational or even unreasonable in such circumstances. 
Even if Company Ls case for defending the claim against the third party had merit, it still 
wouldnt be clear cut. Litigation is inherently uncertain, even in circumstances where a 
claimant or defendant has reasonable prospects of success. So, even if AXAs decision to 
settle rather than defend or contest the matter in court was a commercial or financially 
motivated one, I dont think this would be unreasonable in the circumstances either, 
particularly where the costs of settling/repairing the third party vehicle would likely be far less 
than the costs of litigation. 
An insurer is a custodian of pooled funds which have to be managed responsibly. And with 
such a fiduciary duty, they cannot be expected to defend or pursue legal action at any cost, 
just because the policyholder feels strongly about the matter and wants to protect their 
reputation. And given the high costs and inherent uncertainties surrounding litigation, it 
seems a prudent and reasonable strategy for an insurer to take.
However, I acknowledge that it wouldve been more favourable for AXA to have discussed 
liability with Company L before ultimately agreeing to settle the claim. The insurer also 
conceded that they ought to have done this and offered £100 compensation in recognition of 
the inconvenience caused. I dont consider this to be an unfair offer in the circumstances, as 
Im not persuaded it has caused more than moderate inconvenience to Company Ls 
business. So, I will not be directing AXA to make any further award as I consider their offer 
of £100 to be fair compensation. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Company L. But Im not persuaded AXA 
have acted unreasonably by choosing to settle the claim in these circumstances, so I will not 
be directing them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 Jack Ferris
Ombudsman