DRN-3605547
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as H complains that One Insurance Limited avoided its commercial 
vehicle insurance policy following a claim.
Mr H, a director of H, brings this complaint on Hs behalf. For ease of reading Ill refer to H
throughout.
What happened
Hs van was involved in an accident, so it claimed on its commercial vehicle insurance policy
with One Insurance. One Insurance reviewed the claim and discovered that when buying the
policy H hadnt declared the correct mileage the van would do. Because of this, One
Insurance said if the correct mileage had been declared it wouldnt have offered cover. So, it
turned down the claim, avoided Hs policy and refunded the premium.
H didnt think this was fair and complained. It said its a high mileage driver and would have
declared doing around 35,000-38,000 miles a year.
One Insurance reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said H had purchased the
policy online through an aggregator site and during the application had declared 5,000
personal miles and 3,000 business miles. One Insurance said this was confirmed in the
policy documents sent to H. One Insurance also said if it had known Hs mileage was over
30,000 a year it wouldnt have covered him. Because of this it avoided his policy and
declined his claim. H didnt think this was fair and said it must be One Insurances error as it
would never have declared such low mileage.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 August 2022 where I said:
When H bought his policy, it had a responsibility  under the Insurance Act 2015 (the
Act)  to make a fair presentation of the risk. And for One Insurance to take any action at all
it needs to show H didnt do this and that it made whats known as a qualifying breach.
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so
on different terms.
One Insurance said H bought this policy online through an aggregator site and has provided
an example of the questions H was asked. These say:
What is the total annual personal mileage for this van? And What is
the total annual business mileage for this van?
One Insurance has also provided a copy of the data it received from the aggregator site and
this shows that 5,000 was answered for personal mileage and 3,000 for business 
mileage.
Ive also reviewed the statement of fact which was sent to H which shows the same mileage
for both of those questions. Because of this Im satisfied One Insurance has shown H didnt
give a fair presentation of the risk as it said the mileage would be between 35,000-38,000
miles a year.
For One Insurance to take any action at all it needs to show it would have either not insured
H, or done so, but on different terms. One Insurance has provided evidence which shows it
wouldnt have insured H if the correct mileage had been declared. Im therefore satisfied that
One Insurance has shown H has made what is known as a qualifying breach.
The remedies available to One Insurance depend on whether a qualifying breach is either
deliberate or reckless, or, neither deliberate nor reckless. One Insurance hasnt said whether
it thinks Hs breach is deliberate or reckless, or, neither deliberate nor reckless. However, it
has avoided the contract and returned the premium which is the remedy when the breach is
neither deliberate nor reckless. Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable outcome in the
circumstances and therefore Im not going to tell One Insurance to do anything else.
Neither H nor One Insurance responded to my provisional decision by the date requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither H nor One Insurance responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman