DRN-3117845
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was refused a payment holiday on his mortgage held with Bank of
Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr F said that when the first lockdown was announced, he asked Halifax for a three-month
payment holiday. He anticipated being badly affected financially by the lockdown. But he
said Halifax wouldnt let him have a payment holiday. Instead, it put a nil payment
arrangement in place for three months.
Mr F thought Halifax had only done this so that it could, at some point in the future, rely on
the three months of arrears from the nil payment arrangement, to repossess his house. But
Halifax wouldnt change its mind. Mr F said he was complaining now, because Halifax was
doing what hed feared, and threatening legal action over the arrears on his mortgage.
Halifax said Mr F didnt qualify for a payment holiday, because of the extent of existing
arrears on his mortgage. Halifax showed us its initial internal guidance, which said that
customers without arrears, or customers who had 1-2 months of arrears as a result of the
pandemic, qualified for a two-month payment holiday. Its later policy said that someone
could have a payment holiday as long as they werent six or more cycles in arrears. If they
were this far in arrears, they had to have paid three consecutive monthly payments before
the pandemic began (which Halifax dated to March 2020).
Halifax also sent us evidence of Mr Fs arrears during 2020. At the end of March 2020, Mr F
made a payment, and his arrears then were £1,872.68. He made no further payment until 2
October. By then, his arrears were £4,263.96. His monthly payment at that time appears to
have been a little under £500.
Halifax declined both the complaints Mr F made about not being able to get a payment
holiday, in March and in June. It did pay Mr F £100 to say sorry because it repeatedly asked
him to contact it about his arrears, but when he tried, no one was available to answer the
phone.
Halifax did put two three-month nil payment arrangements in place, on Mr Fs mortgage.
Halifax said that a payment holiday wouldve been worse for Mr F, because that would
increase his contractual monthly payment at the end of the holiday. A nil payment
arrangement would result in his arrears increasing, but Halifax said that it could come to an
arrangement to clear those that wouldnt result in his monthly payments going up.
Halifax doesnt appear to have reached such an agreement with Mr F. He told us hes now
paying £30 more each month, and that this is making little impression on his arrears. Mr F
also showed us his credit file for this mortgage, which appears to show that Mr F made only
two monthly payments in 2020 (although credit reference agencies (CRAs) present
simplified information in different ways, so that doesnt necessarily mean this is what Halifax
is reporting).
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She spoke to Halifax to tell it what
she thought it should do. She said Halifax should have granted a payment holiday to Mr F
when he first asked for it. And it shouldnt have recorded negative information on his credit
file. Our investigator didnt think Halifax had followed the relevant Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) guidance.
Our investigator said that, because Mr Fs mortgage was already in arrears by three months
when he asked for the payment holiday, it would be reasonable for Halifax to record those
arrears on his credit file. But it shouldnt add further arrears during the time a three-month
payment holiday shouldve been in place.
Our investigator said that it might not help Mr F to capitalise the arrears on his mortgage,
because that would increase his monthly payment. So Halifax should talk to Mr F about how
to deal with the deferred balance and the original arrears. It should consider extending the
term to bring his payments back on track.
Our investigator also thought Halifax should pay Mr F £200 in compensation for the trouble
and upset caused to him by turning down his request for a payment holiday more than once.
Mr F wanted to clarify what would happen to the arrears which had accrued when he
shouldve had a payment holiday.
Halifax said it accepted our investigators decision, but it didnt accept it had made a mistake
at the time. It thought it had followed FCA and government guidance at the time, when it
declined Mr Fs request for a payment holiday. Halifax said that what its reporting to the
CRAs is that Mr Fs mortgage is three months in arrears. It said it didnt need to change this,
because Mr F would always have been three months in arrears.
Halifax said that it would speak to Mr F to deal with the arrears, and that it would pay £200 in
compensation. But when it did speak to Mr F, he was unhappy with what it proposed. He
said it was still asking him to make up the payments that shouldve been made during his
payment holiday.
Mr F then contacted us again. He said that Halifax was refusing to consolidate his debt. And
because the arrears werent yet cleared, he was also unable to apply for a new fixed rate
mortgage. Mr F said that his existing fixed rate had expired. If hed been able to consolidate
his debt, he would be paying only £1 per month less. But if he could consolidate the debt
and apply for a new fixed rate, then he would be over £100 better off per month. And he said
that Halifax was only refusing to do this because of his ongoing complaint.
Because no agreement was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I understand that Mr F would like this issue resolved quickly. If I pause now to 
investigate the new issues that hes told us about, like not being able to get a new 
fixed term deal on his mortgage now, that will delay the resolution of the original 
complaint by some time. So Ill leave those new issues for a future complaint, and 
seek to resolve the issues over his 2020 payment holiday applications here.
Firstly, I want to clarify why I think that Halifax shouldve arranged two payment 
holidays  or deferrals - within the meaning of the FCA guidance, for Mr F. I note 
that the FCA guidance produced in March said that the guidance applied to all customers regardless of whether they are in a payment shortfall. And it also said 
that Customers in payment shortfall should not receive less favourable treatment 
than other customers.
Under the guidance, Halifax was able to consider whether a payment holiday, within 
the meaning in the FCA guidance, would be appropriate for Mr Fs particular 
circumstances. But it appears to me that it didnt consider his individual 
circumstances at all. It refused his request solely on the basis of his previous arrears. 
I dont think thats in line with the guidance at the time. And I think if Halifax had 
applied the guidance in this case, it wouldve granted Mr F two three-month payment 
holidays.
As I understand there has been some confusion over this, Id like to set out for Mr F 
what I think ought to have happened, if he was given a payment holiday under the 
relevant pandemic guidance.
Our service has used the term payment holiday here, because thats the term that 
was originally used in the FCA guidance, which told banks what help they had to 
offer for people whose finances were affected by the pandemic. And because this is 
the term that was used in the FCA guidance, its also the term that was commonly 
used by banks, when they were offering these arrangements to those who have been 
affected by the pandemic.
Mr F has told us he thinks a payment holiday is different to a deferral. He had 
understood that in a deferral, the contractual monthly payments would be due at the 
end of the period. And in a holiday, he said that hed understood that there would be 
no contractual monthly payment due at all, ever, for the months of the holiday. Mr F 
had understood he would have to cover the interest which accrued during the 
holiday, once the holiday was over, but he wouldnt ever have to cover the missed 
contractual monthly payments. He was very disappointed to find out that this wasnt 
the case.
Our investigator has explained that although the FCA guidance did originally use the 
term payment holiday, that FCA guidance has always made clear that the pandemic 
arrangements always only required banks offering this arrangement to defer 
payments, not to waive them altogether. I know Mr F has found the term holiday 
unhelpful and misleading. The FCA guidance has moved away from using this term, 
and now refers to deferrals.
But the guidance always said that banks must explain the effect of not making 
payments for a time, to anyone whos taking a payment holiday on their mortgage. 
So, if Halifax had offered a pandemic payment holiday to Mr F, it ought also to have 
explained how this would work. And then, once the holiday was over, the guidance 
also says that it would need to agree with Mr F how the shortfall would be repaid.
There are a number of possible ways to deal with this shortfall, after a payment 
deferral. This includes capitalising these missed payments  which means adding it 
to the total amount owed on the mortgage. That can change someones monthly 
payments, but the impact it has would generally be spread over a longer period of 
time than just asking someone to pay back arrears. So it can be easier for borrowers 
to manage.
Mr F has indicated that capitalising his arrears would be his preference. Our 
investigator said that Halifax should explore this with Mr F. I would expect Halifax to 
capitalise the arrears that Mr F accrued during the time when I think he shouldve been offered a payment deferral, if thats what Mr F wants and if theres no good 
reason not to do so.
Finally, our investigator said that she thought that Halifax should pay Mr F £200 in 
compensation. I agree with this  because Mr F was on a nil payment arrangement, 
his arrears were handled differently by Halifax, and I think that Mr F has experienced 
stress and upset as a result. I think that a payment of £200 in compensation would 
be part of a fair and reasonable outcome in this case.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax said that if Mr F accepted, then it could add the deferred repayments to the mortgage 
balance so this would be repaid over the remaining term of the mortgage. Halifax said that is 
in accordance with how payments holidays were implemented for all consumers.
But Halifax said it noted Mr F might not want the payments to be capitalised, and if that is 
what he chose, there would be no amendments made to the account. The payments not 
paid during the intended payment holiday would remain as arrears, along with the arrears 
accrued outside of what should have been a payment holiday, and Mr F could contact 
Halifaxs collections team to arrange to repay the full arrears accordingly.
Halifax said that the only options were either to implement the payment holiday and 
capitalise the deferred payments, which will increase Mr Fs contractual monthly payment, or 
not capitalise any of the deferred payments and the mortgage remains as is. Halifax 
appeared to be concerned that Mr F might expect that it could implement a payment holiday 
for him, without the deferred payments being added to the mortgage.
Halifax said once it knew what Mr F wanted, it could ensure the remediation is completed 
swiftly, including paying the recommended redress for the distress and inconvenience.
I am aware that theres been some confusion about how a payment deferral should be 
implemented. However, I think my decision is clear that the offer of a payment holiday is an 
offer to defer monthly payments to a later date. Its not an offer to waive those payments 
altogether. The FCA guidance always made clear that any payments deferred during a 
holiday did have to be paid at some point. 
I hope Mr F will take up Halifaxs offer to retrospectively implement a payment deferral on his 
mortgage. That will initially increase Mr Fs monthly payment, although I understand Mr F 
then anticipates that he will be able to arrange a new mortgage deal, which will bring his 
monthly payment back down somewhat. 
Changes to retrospectively implement a payment deferral will also require Halifax to ensure 
that Mr Fs credit file is consistent with such a payment holiday having been given.
If Mr F doesnt take up that offer, then I would expect Halifax to treat Mr Fs mortgage 
account as it would any other account in arrears. And I would expect it to consider a full 
range of options for dealing with Mr Fs arrears. Whether Mr F accepts Halifaxs offer of capitalisation or not, I would still expect the 
compensation amount in this case to be paid, providing Mr F accepts my final decision.
Mr F also replied. He wanted me to place a number of additional requirements on Halifax as 
part of this complaint, as well as to open fresh complaints for him.
I should say, before I start to address Mr Fs comments and requests, that if I change or 
otherwise add to the requirements I set out in my provisional decision now, I have to allow 
time for both sides to review and comment on those additional requirements. Thats usually 
a period of about a month. 
So if I add more things in to my decision now, that would further delay the resolution in this 
case. And Mr F has told us that hes depending on this resolution, to allow him to change his 
current mortgage interest rate. And that means I dont think it would be in the interests of 
both sides for me to do that.
Mr F said he wasnt clear on the amount of arrears that he owed. He said his calculations 
didnt match those of Halifax. Mr F said that the statements Halifax sent were hard to 
understand, and he thought Halifax was trying to confuse him. 
Mr F said hed added the arrears up to be more than Halifax had said. But then he appeared 
to suggest that the payments which were added to his arrears should not have been 
accruing interest, so the figure should be much lower now.
Mr F wanted me to provide detailed guidance for Halifax, on how it should provide clear and 
concise information as to what's owed, with a view to capitalisation, so he could move 
forward. Mr F said he didnt trust Halifax on this. 
I can understand that Mr F has found this confusing. Mortgages sound simple, but they are a 
surprisingly complex financial product, and it can be difficult for consumers to work them out 
accurately. But I dont think it would assist here for me to set out detailed guidance for 
Halifax on how it should explain this to Mr F, not least because, as Ive explained above that 
would delay the resolution in this case by at least another month.
Mr F said he was also unhappy with how his mortgage was reporting to CRAs. He sent us 
two credit reports, which he said showed inconsistent data. He wanted Halifax to correct this, 
for the period when he should have been given a payment holiday and for the time after this.
I should note, firstly, that Halifax is responsible for the data it supplies to CRAs. It isnt then 
responsible for how the CRA chooses to display that data. And the CRAs dont always 
interpret data in the same way. 
I have also noted above that if Halifax reworks Mr Fs mortgage, to treat it as having been in 
a payment deferral during the six months that it was on a nil payment arrangement, it will 
also need to ensure that the reporting it makes to the CRAs reflects this. 
But I cannot address here the issue of Mr Fs credit file reporting after this period. Thats 
because this wasnt part of his original complaint. And our service cant just pick up a new 
complaint from Mr F. Were not allowed to do that. The bank has to be given a chance to 
resolve this first, before our service can get involved. 
Mr F said that hed also requested that Halifax capitalise his debt earlier, and that it allow 
him to fix his mortgage again, so he could get a better interest rate. He said Halifax had 
refused, based on the fact of an ongoing complaint. Mr F said he didnt have a final resolution from Halifax on this because it was going to add this to his existing complaint. And 
he didnt want to go back to Halifax, because he said it would just fob him off. 
I think Mr F had previously told us that he wasnt able to renegotiate his mortgage because 
of the outstanding arrears. But whatever the reason, I cant address this new point here 
either. Nor is our service able to just pick up this complaint from Mr F. The same rules apply 
here  Mr F must give Halifax a chance to respond to a complaint about this, before he can 
ask our service to look into this. 
Once Mr F has raised a complaint with Halifax, he can then come to our service once he 
receives a final response letter, telling him he can refer the complaint to us, if he isnt happy 
with any resolution offered. Or, if he doesnt get a letter like that, then he can ask us to look 
into things eight weeks after hes complained to Halifax. But as Ive explained, we arent able 
to skip this process entirely for Mr F. 
Ive considered the further representations that both sides have made. But, for the reasons 
Ive set out here, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must treat Mr Fs mortgage 
as having been under a payment holiday, within the meaning set out in the relevant FCA 
guidance, during the six months in 2020 that it was on a nil payment arrangement. This 
includes updating the way the mortgage account was reported to CRAs if necessary. Bank 
of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should capitalise the arrears which accrued during this 
period if Mr F wishes. And it should pay Mr F £200 in compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman