DRN-3207535
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the amount of interest hes paid on a loan he had with Match the Cash 
Limited trading as www.guarantorloan.co.uk (MTC).
What happened
Mr W applied for - and was given - a loan of £7,250 to be repaid by 48 monthly instalments 
of £307.02. Hed had a previous loan with MTC and had made regular overpayments, so he 
paid less interest. He wanted to make similar overpayments to his new loan but MTC said 
hed need to make payments of three times the monthly instalment if he wished to overpay.
Mr W repaid the loan within six months or so, by making a lump sum payment. He received 
an interest rebate of just over £6,000. He said there was nothing in the terms and conditions 
of the loan to say he had to make overpayments at the level hed been told. If hed been 
allowed to make repayments in the same way as he had previously, he says hed have 
made a greater interest saving. He complained to MTC.
MTC looked into his complaint and rejected it. It said that during the application process for 
the second loan, it had explained it wasnt prepared to set up the overpayments on the same 
basis that it had on the earlier one. But it had explained it was happy for Mr W to make lump 
sum payments of three times the contracted payment which would be considered as partial 
settlements. Hed agreed to that and accepted the loan.
MTC said it had given Mr W the opportunity to make overpayments, albeit not in the way 
hed wished, but he didnt make any. At his request, MTC calculated that if Mr W had made 
overpayments in the way hed wished, hed have saved a further £1,064.06. MTC later 
offered him £500 as a gesture of goodwill, which Mr W rejected.
As Mr W was unhappy with MTCs response, he referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She said Mr W had agreed to the terms of the loan. While it didnt 
specifically say in the written terms and conditions that hed need to make payments of three 
times the contracted amount to count as partial settlements, hed been informed and agreed 
hed understood during the application process. In any event, hed not made overpayments, 
so hed not been entitled to a greater interest saving.
MTC agreed with our investigator, but Mr W didnt. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to several calls from the application process onwards. Mr W was clearly keen to 
repay the loan as quickly as possible in order to minimise the amount of interest he paid. He 
wanted to take the loan over as short a period as possible to help him achieve that and was 
unhappy that MTC proposed a four-year term.
MTC explained it had to tailor contracted monthly repayments to not only Mr Ws budget but 
also his guarantors. If it had failed to do so and it had to call on the guarantor, they may 
have been unable to pay. It felt, after speaking with the guarantor, a contracted monthly 
repayment of £307 was affordable for both. That meant a four-year term.
MTC acknowledged that Mr W wanted to make larger repayments to his loan and advised 
him how that could be done. But it refused to collect more than the contracted payments on 
a regular basis. It told Mr W hed need to make overpayments manually and explained how 
he could do so. Mr W accepted that at the time he took the loan.
As Ive already said, Mr W repaid the loan early and received an interest rebate of just over 
£6,000 as a result. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr W made any overpayments during 
the life of the loan other than the final payment, or that he contacted MTC to try to make an 
overpayment and was refused.
MTC was clear on the terms it was prepared to lend to Mr W, and he agreed to those. He 
was under no obligation to do so and was free to pursue finance elsewhere. Ive seen 
nothing which suggests MTC breached the terms it agreed with Mr W, or that he suffered a 
financial loss as a result. Therefore, I dont uphold his complaint. 
I note that MTC offered Mr W £500 as a gesture of goodwill and it has confirmed to me that 
the offer is still open. If Mr W now wishes to accept that offer, he should contact MTC direct.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman