DRN-3712640
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from FCE Bank Plc wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
In February 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
FCE. At the point of supply the car had covered around 5200 miles. The car was refinanced 
in February 2021 and the agreement was extended for a further two years. At the point of 
refinance the car had covered around 33,000 miles.
In January 2022 the cars engine failed. The car was recovered to the supplying dealer who 
carried out a vehicle health check and found that the cambelt had disintegrated. It also found 
that the oil pressure light was illuminated. 
At the point of engine failure the car had covered around 38,215 miles.
Mr S complained to FCE. FCE didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the car was out of 
warranty and that because the fault had occurred four years after the point of supply, it was 
up to Mr S to provide evidence to show that the car was faulty at the point of supply.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that the expected lifespan of a cambelt on 
this vehicle was between 100,000 and 144,000 miles and that because the car had only 
covered 38,215 miles at the time the cambelt disintegrated and the engine failed, she 
thought the part had failed prematurely and wasnt sufficiently durable, which made the car 
of unsatisfactory quality. The investigator said that because repairs were likely to cost more 
than the car was worth, she thought Mr S should be allowed to reject the car.
FCE didnt agree. It said the fault had occurred four years after the inception of the finance 
agreement and that there was no evidence that the car was faulty at the point of supply. FCE 
said it was unreasonable to allow Mr S to reject the car and said it would have bee fair to ask 
FCE to cover the cost of repairs. FCE questioned whether the work carried out on the car by 
Mr S couldve caused or contributed to the engine failure and asked whether any parts used 
by Mr S met the manufacturers specifications. FCE suggested that Mr S should cover the 
costs of repair himself and, if a subsequent investigation by the dealership deemed the car 
to have been faulty at the point of supply, FCE would reimburse Mr S for the costs of repair.
Mr S wasnt willing to accept FCEs suggestion that he paid for repairs. He said the 
supplying dealer had advised him that the cars engine was no longer viable and that it hadnt 
been reassembled following the vehicle health check.
The complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account things such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, and other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr S was second hand at the point of supply. Id expect a second hand 
car to have a degree of wear and tear and to require more repairs and maintenance than a 
brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there 
was a fault with the car at the point of supply which made it of unsatisfactory quality, as 
opposed to a fault which occurred due to general wear and tear.
Under the relevant legislation, when a car isnt of satisfactory quality in the first six months, 
its assumed that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, unless shown 
otherwise. After six months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to 
show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issues with the car. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. I say this because the engine failed in 
January 2022 and a subsequent vehicle health check confirmed that the cambelt has 
disintegrated.
Just because there was a fault doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied. At the point when the engine failed, the car was around six years old and 
had covered around 38,215 miles. As Ive already said, Id expect a car of this age and 
mileage to have a degree of wear and tear. The vehicle health check found that the cambelt 
had disintegrated but didnt comment on what caused this or why it had happened. 
Given that the cambelt is an integral part of the engine, I dont think its likely that the 
cambelt had started to disintegrate at the point of supply. However, I need to consider the 
durability of the cambelt here. This is because durability is an aspect of satisfactory quality. 
A cambelt on the make and model of the car supplied to Mr S should be expected to last for 
over 100,000 miles according to the manufacturers guidance. In this case, the cambelt has 
failed at a point when the car has only covered 38,215 miles. So, I think its fair to say that 
the cambelt failed much sooner than a reasonable person would expect. Taking this into 
account, I dont think the cambelt was sufficiently durable. This makes the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Ive taken all of the points made by FCE into consideration. FCE has said that the fact that 
the oil pressure light was illuminated doesnt mean that the car has a fault. I agree. However, 
Im satisfied that the car has a fault, not because of the oil light, but because the cambelt has 
disintegrated and the engine has failed.
FCE has said that theres no evidence that the car was faulty at the point of supply. My 
decision is based on durability here. The car isnt of satisfactory quality because a part has 
failed prematurely.
FCE has said that it wouldve been fair to offer it the opportunity to repair the car. The 
relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault. However, in this 
case, the supplying dealer has dismantled the engine and has told Mr S that the engine is no 
longer viable. So, it seems likely that any repairs will involve replacing the engine. This is 
likely to cost more than the car is worth. In these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to ask FCE to carry out repairs. Im of the view that the fairest resolution here is to allow Mr 
S to reject the car.
FCE has expressed concern that Mr S carried out some work on the car himself. Mr S has 
told this service that he carried out an oil change and changed the oil filter during lockdown, 
when he was unable to book the car in for a service. Mr S has a relevant qualification in 
motor mechanics. FCE has made the point that the use of parts which dont meet the 
manufacturers specifications couldve contributed to the engine failure. This service asked 
Mr S to comment on this and hes confirmed that he followed the manufacturers 
requirements as set out in the vehicles handbook and used parts with the same part 
numbers as the parts he was replacing.
Ive got no reason to doubt Mr Ss testimony. In any event, theres no evidence to suggest 
that the engine failure was caused by an external factor such as a non-manufacturers 
specification part. I think its likely that the supplying dealer wouldve identified and 
commented on this as part of the vehicle health check if this had been the case.
FCE has said that Mr S refused to allow the supplying dealer to investigate the cause of the 
fault further and maintains that theres no evidence of a fault. Ive already explained why I 
dont think the cambelt was sufficiently durable. A reasonable person wouldnt expect a 
cambelt to fail at this level of mileage. As to identifying the cause of the fault, once the 
vehicle health check found that the cambelt has disintegrated, I think it would have been 
reasonable for FCE to arrange an independent inspection if it wanted to investigate further. 
The car was with the supplying dealer for several months and I think FCE has had 
reasonable opportunity to arrange an inspection.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im of the view that the cambelt wasnt sufficiently 
durable and that the car was therefore not of satisfactory quality.  FCE need to take steps to 
put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right, FCE should:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr S
Refund all rental payments made by Mr S since 24 January 2022
Refund the costs of recovery of £360.93
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay compensation of £275 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Ss credit file
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. FCE Bank Plc must take the steps Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman