DRN-3040073
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have held him liable for 
transactions hes said were carried out by scammers.
  
What happened
In November 2020 Mr I opened a current account with NatWest. On 4 February 2021 Mr I 
says he withdrew £100 from an ATM. Hes said he recalls there being between three and six 
people nearby all around two metres away from him in accordance with social distancing 
measures in place at the time.
Mr I says he thinks one of these people mustve seen his PIN. And, after he withdrew money 
from the ATM taken his card. Possibly because he dropped this after hed withdrawn his 
cash. In the days following Mr Is withdrawal scammers made eight withdrawals from his 
account - six via ATMs and two in branch - totalling over £4,300.
On 7 February 2021 it seems Mr I checked his account online and realised the money had 
gone missing. According to its records he reported the matter to NatWest on 8 February 
2021. NatWest investigated the matter but concluded no fraud had taken place. It made the 
decision to close Mr Is account and loaded a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System 
(CIFAS) marker against him.
Mr I made a complaint but NatWest didnt overturn its decision. He brought the complaint to 
our service and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. They felt there was no 
plausible point of compromise for Mr Is card and PIN so they felt he should be liable for the 
transactions hed disputed. But, they felt the burden of proof was higher for loading a CIFAS 
marker against him, and they didnt feel NatWest has sufficient proof to do this. The 
investigator asked NatWest to remove the marker.
Neither Mr I or NatWest accepted the investigators findings so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Has NatWest been reasonable in holding Mr I liable for the transactions?
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). I wont quote them directly here but, broadly speaking they set out when a customer 
is responsible for the transactions on their account  typically when theyve been authorised 
by the consumer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer 
authorised a transaction there needs to be evidence to support the banks case if it wishes to 
hold the customer liable.
In this case NatWest feels it has enough evidence to hold Mr I liable for the transactions hes 
said were carried out fraudulently. And, there isnt a great deal of evidence available in this 
case aside from Mr Is testimony around what he thinks mightve happened.
But overall, based on the balance of probabilities and the evidence Ive seen I dont think the 
explanation Mr I has provided is plausible. So I dont think NatWest is acting unreasonably in 
holding him liable for the transactions. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken the following 
information into account:
During the time Mr I made the cash withdrawal he says mustve been the point of 
compromise, social distancing measures were in place in the UK due to the 
pandemic. NatWests records suggest when he reported the fraud Mr I confirmed 
everyone around him was complying with these measures. He also said the same to 
our service when discussing the event. So this means everyone was around two 
metres away from him. I dont think its plausible that anyone standing this distance 
from Mr I would have been able to see his PIN as he used the cash machine  
unnoticed by both Mr I and the other people waiting.
Later in our investigation Mr I said someone was actually stood to the side of the 
ATM while he used it. Its not clear why this version of events changed when until this 
point hed said the closest people to him were three or four feet directly behind him. 
Hes previously said he wouldve noticed were they closer as this wouldve seemed 
strange. Its not clear why he would remember this detail now but wouldnt have 
noticed at the time given how significant this wouldve been in light of the money he 
says was stolen.
Mr I has said he mustve dropped his card at the ATM which is how someone 
wouldve accessed both his card and PIN. But hes said there were numerous people 
around him when he used the ATM  between 3 and 7 as his recollection has 
changed over time. And it doesnt seem likely all of these people were known to each 
other and working together. So if Mr I had dropped his card and someone else had 
picked it up and left the ATM with it, it seems unlikely no-one else wouldve have 
noticed or said anything about this. 
According to the activity on Mr Is account, after someone took his card they entered 
the PIN correctly first time, checked his balance  which wouldve shown over £4,000 
in his account  then withdrew £50 from an ATM. Its not clear why the fraudster only 
wouldve taken £50 when they had seen much more wouldve been available to 
them.
Mr I claims the fraudster made two branch withdrawals from Mr Is account. One the 
day his card went missing and one a day later. Both branches were near where Mr I 
says his card likely went missing. Its unusual for a fraudster to go into branch to 
make withdrawals with a stolen card. This puts them in direct contact with the bank 
staff who might already have been informed by the account holder the card has been 
stolen. It seems even more unusual a fraudster would risk this again the next day 
when most people likely wouldve noticed their card was missing and reported it 
stolen. It seems the fraudster would be taking a considerable risk in making these 
withdrawals, particularly the second one and this isnt typical of this kind of fraud.
NatWest has provided me with a CCTV image of someone making a deposit to the 
account  which Mr I has confirmed was him  and a CCTV image of the person making one of the in-branch withdrawals Mr I has disputed. The two people do have 
some similarities and the differences could be an attempt by Mr I to change his 
appearance. Im not an expert in this field, so I cant say whether its more likely than 
not they are the same person. And whilst NatWest feels it certainly is, it doesnt 
appear it has sought expert opinion on this either. I accept they are similar enough 
that its possible they are the same person. But, Id also add that even if they were 
different people, its possible the withdrawals were still being made with Mr Is 
knowledge or consent. So although Ive taken this point into account in the round, I 
havent relied on this piece of evidence.
The amounts withdrawn by the fraudster arent consistent with what Id generally 
expect to see from a fraudster who had access to a stolen card and PIN. For 
example, Mr I says they went into branch to make a withdrawal - they withdrew 
£1,500 and waited until the next day to withdraw £1,000. Its not clear why they 
wouldnt have withdrawn as much as possible on the first visit, given theyd checked 
the balance and were aware there was more than £4,000 in the account. 
It also seems unusual fraudsters didnt maximise or attempt to maximise the daily 
ATM withdrawal limit from the account, which appears to have been £500. For the 
first two days Mr I says fraudsters had his card and PIN they withdrew £50, £350 on 
4 February, £100, £400 on 5 February, £500 on 6 February and £410 on 7 February. 
The only failed attempt at a withdrawal was on 7 February 2021 when the fraudster 
attempted a further withdrawal of £250. Which again seems a strange amount to 
attempt to withdraw given theyd withdrawn £410 that day already and this is the only 
day they attempt to withdraw more from an ATM than the withdrawal limit. 
Mr I has said the £4,000 that was taken by fraudsters was money he deposited in his 
account a few weeks before the fraud took place. Hes said this money was borrowed 
from family in order to buy a van, and hed arranged with a local mechanic they were 
going to help him buy one, but he hasnt been able to provide any evidence to 
support he was looking to purchase a van or had viewed any. And it seems a little 
strange hed borrowed this specific amount to buy a van before hed found one.
Mr I has said he put his card in his back pocket with the £100 he withdrew when he 
used the ATM. He says he then paid for his shopping with the £100 hed withdrawn. 
Hes also said following the withdrawal he went shopping and paid in cash. It seems 
strange he didnt notice his card was missing when he took his money out of his back 
pocket  where he expected his card to also be.
Overall, taking all the available evidence into account, on balance, I dont think Mr I has 
provided a plausible explanation as to how the transactions hes disputing have been carried 
out by fraudsters. So I think its reasonable NatWest has held him liable for them. 
Has NatWest acted reasonably in applying a CIFAS marker?
In this case NatWest loaded a marker for category six misuse of facility with CIFAS as it 
feels Mr I has deliberately misreported the fraud he says has taken place on his account. 
CIFAS guidance says the business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet 
the burden of proof set by CIFAS, which at that time was that NatWest needed to have 
enough information to make a formal complaint to the police or other relevant law 
enforcement agencies. And that any filing should be for confirmed cases of fraud, rather than 
mere suspicion. In this case, I dont think there is enough evidence to confirm Mr I has carried out fraud to 
the level required by CIFAS. I think the circumstances hes described are suspicious, and I 
think what hes said is implausible based on the balance of probabilities. So according to our 
services approach to this type of complaint, I think its fair and reasonable that NatWest is 
holding him liable for the transactions hes disputed. But the requirements of loading a 
CIFAS marker are much higher than the balance of probabilities, or whats more likely than 
not. It requires confirmation the consumer has acted fraudulently.
Although implausible, and in my opinion unlikely, in this case I think its reasonable to accept 
Mr Is card and PIN couldve been taken in the circumstances hes described. I dont think 
the evidence NatWest has shown me proves hes deliberately, falsely reported fraud - which 
is what loading the CIFAS marker requires.
Im aware NatWest feels it has CCTV images of Mr I deposited cash into the account and 
believes the same person, also on CCTV, withdrew money he says was taken by scammers. 
So I understand that based on this it feels it has proven Mr I has falsely reported fraud. But 
as Ive explained, I havent relied on the CCTV images because I cant reasonably conclude 
it is the same person. Its possible, but Im not an expert in this area. And as far as Ive seen 
NatWest hasnt obtained expert opinion in reaching this conclusion either. 
And, I think its important to note Mr I considers himself to have a physical disability which 
impacts the way he moves. He believes it would be clear from the way the fraudster moved it 
was not him. NatWest seems to have relied on CCTV images rather than CCTV footage of 
the transactions. Overall, I dont think the CCTV images can be relied on.
Based on the evidence I think can be relied on in this case, I dont think there is proof Mr I 
has deliberately, falsely reported a crime to the level required in order to load a CIFAS 
marker. So, I dont think the CIFAS marker has been fairly applied in this case and should be 
removed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Mr I should be liable for the 
transactions hes disputed but National Westminster Bank Plc should take the following 
action:
Remove Mr Is entry on the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System relating to this 
case
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021. 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman