DRN-1610343
The complaint
Miss F complains that Scottish Widows Limited didn't keep her updated about the 
performance of her mortgage-endowment policy. 
What happened
Miss F took out a mortgage-endowment policy with Scottish Widows in 1998. It had a term of 
25 years and a target value of £80,000.
According to Scottish Widows' records, it sent Miss F several letters between 2003 and 2013 
warning her there was a high risk that the policy wouldn't reach its target value by the time it 
matured. But, due to a system error, it then stopped sending these letters. It wrote to Miss F 
about this in 2019  and paid her £150 compensation when she complained. But she wants 
it to help cover the shortfall she's currently expecting on her mortgage  as she says 
she would've made other arrangements if she'd been updated about the risk.
Our investigator didn't recommend any further redress. He pointed out that Scottish Widows 
had already told Miss F about the likely shortfall  and she hadn't taken mitigating action. So 
he didn't think she would've done so if she'd been sent further updates. Overall, he thought 
£150 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Miss F disagreed, explaining the difficult circumstances she'd faced during the period when 
warning letters were being sent. This didn't change our investigator's view. So the case has 
now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
outcome as our investigator - and for largely the same reasons.
I'm sorry to hear about the difficult circumstances Miss F has faced over the years, and I 
thank her for telling us about these. I'd like to reassure her that I've taken these sensitive 
circumstances into account when considering her complaint.
Scottish Widows' records suggest that, from 2003 to 2013, Miss F was sent letters warning 
about the high risk of a shortfall. These records show the dates the letters were sent, 
the projected maturity values they contained, and that they would've been sent to Miss F's 
address. From my knowledge of the format of Scottish Widows' warning lettersdetermined 
by guidance set by the financial regulatorI consider it likely these would've made the risk 
of a shortfall sufficiently clear. Overall, based on the evidence I've seen, I'm satisfied Miss F 
was kept up-to-date about the risk of a shortfall until 2013. 
Scottish Widows admits it should've written to Miss F about the performance of her policy 
between 2013 and 2019. She says that, as it didn't, she lost the opportunity to make other 
arrangements to cover the projected shortfall. So I've considered what's more likely to have 
happened if she'd been kept updated about the performance of her policy.I appreciate that Miss F has faced some difficult circumstances over the years. She says she 
would've been in a better position to act if she'd known about the risk in 2013. But I've 
already concluded that Scottish Widows had done enough to make the risk clear to her by 
that point. Even in difficult circumstances, I think keeping track of how she was going to 
repay her mortgage was likely to have been a key financial concern. I'm also conscious that 
the 2019 update which prompted her complaint projected a lower shortfall than in 2013. 
Miss F says it's possible she thought everything was okay because the warning letters 
stopped. But her own explanation suggests she's not sure that's what happened. And, given 
that she was facing a projected shortfall of almost £35,000 in 2013, it seems unlikely she 
would've reasonably thought the policy was back on track. Overall, looking at the number of 
warning letters Scottish Widows sent, the time period they covered, and the level of shortfall 
they projected, I'm not persuaded Miss F would've acted differently if she'd been sent more 
updates.
Although Miss F had previously been told about the likelihood of a shortfall, it would've still 
been upsetting to receive confirmation that her policy wasn't on track after a long period 
without any updates. Scottish Widows has paid her £150 compensation for this. In all the 
circumstances, I'm satisfied this is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience she's 
suffered due to its errors. 
I know this outcome will be disappointing for Miss F. But I hope Ive been able to explain 
clearly why Im not awarding anything more.
My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited has already paid Miss F £150 to settle the complaint, and I think 
this compensation is fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that 
Scottish Widows Limited doesn't need to do anything else to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman