DRN-1870281
 
The complaint
Mr C complains Fairmead Insurance Limited has unfairly registered a fault claim against him 
on his contents insurance policy. 
Mr C's neighbour accidently damaged Mr C's laptop. Fairmead met Mr C's claim but said it 
was unable to recover costs from Mr C's neighbour. It said the claim would be registered as 
a 'fault' claim. Mr C is unhappy about this as the neighbour admitted liability. Mr C wants his 
excess refunded and the claim changed to non-fault. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I won't repeat them again 
here. Instead I'll focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence, I'm not persuaded Fairmead has taken all reasonable steps to 
attempt a recovery of costs in this case. The neighbour has admitted causing the 
damage and informed their own insurer of the potential claim. I understand what 
Fairmead has said about the potential prospects of recovery, but without 
contacting the third party or their insurer and setting out the facts, it can't be said with 
any certainty whether the claim would be accepted without challenge.
 
 As Fairmead didn't take this step it is possible it has reached a conclusion on the 
claim liability that is unfair to Mr C. I think that on a fair and reasonable 
basis, Fairmead should now take steps to contact the third party or their insurer about 
the claim to see if liability would be accepted. 
 
Fairmead didn't respond to an email Mr C sent and it's handling of the claim has also 
caused Mr C some worry and frustration. I think Fairmead should pay Mr C £50 
compensation to reflect this.  
 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr C's complaint against Fairmead Insurance Limited. I 
require it to make contact with the third party or their insurer to seek an admittance of 
liability. It should also pay Mr C £50 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman