DRN-2750754
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain about how National House-Building Council (NHBC) handled their 
claim on their building warranty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I bought a home with a ten-year building warranty. In November 2018 they made 
a claim under section three of the warranty as the floor of their balcony was spongey and 
unable to hold loads. NHBC accepted the claim and sent a contractor out to inspect the 
damage. The contractor decided it would be best to start work in March 2020 to try and 
avoid any bad weather that would make repairs more difficult.
However there was a delay to work commencing in March 2019. In June 2019 NHBC 
contacted Mr I to check if he would like to proceed with repairs or to accept a cash 
settlement. In November 2019 he confirmed he would like NHBC to carry out the repair 
work. It was agreed this would start in March 2020. 
In March 2020 NHBCs contractor attended Mr and Mrs Is property and erected scaffolding. 
However shortly after this, lockdown restrictions were imposed by the UK government due to 
the coronavirus pandemic. This meant work couldnt begin. 
In June 2020 restrictions were lifted on construction work. Due to the backlog of work 
NHBCs contractor couldnt begin the work on Mr and Mrs Is property until August 2020. 
Mr and Mrs I werent happy with this. They said they didnt want the same contractors to 
return as they had been rude to them on the phone. Further they said the work had taken too 
long too complete and it had meant they had lost out on selling their house and buying a 
house they had an offer accepted on. They also said the scaffolding had caused damage to 
their home. They made a complaint.
NHBC upheld their complaint. It said it agreed there had been some delays throughout the 
claim and offered £500 compensation to make up for this. It also said its contractors had 
been instructed to repair the damage caused to the property by the scaffolding. 
Mr and Mrs I didnt think this was enough. They said that due to the delay to the work being 
completed, their house sale fell through and they lost out on buying their dream home. They 
said NHBC should pay more compensation to make up for this. They brought their complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that she agreed there 
had been a number of delays and some of these had been caused by NHBC. But she 
thought £500 compensation was fair to compensate for these delays. 
Mr and Mrs I didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs I are unhappy with the length of time their claim has taken to resolve. They say 
this has caused them additional distress and has meant they lost out on buying a house 
because of the delays.
Insurance claims, by their nature, will often be lengthy and this can cause significant 
distress. When considering this complaint I am looking at the actions of NHBC. So will 
consider whether NHBC has caused delays that could have been avoided and the impact 
these have had on Mr and Mrs I.
The claim was first raised in November 2018 and at this time it was progressed promptly by 
NHBC. It agreed to begin work the following year in March, to avoid difficult weather 
conditions and I think thats reasonable. However between March and June 2019 there were 
delays to the work commencing. And NHBC has accepted these could have been avoided. 
In June 2019 NHBC contacted Mr I to ask if he would rather take a cash settlement and 
arrange the works himself. Mr I didnt confirm his decision until November 2019. This meant 
the work couldnt begin until March the following year to again allow for weather conditions. 
Shortly after the scaffolding was erected, the UK went into a national lockdown. This meant 
work couldnt begin as planned. And when restrictions were lifted, there was a delay due to 
the backlog of work NHBCs contractors had to work through. So the first available time the 
work could begin was August 2020.
From looking at the progress of the claim, I agree NHBC delayed the work beginning in 
March 2019. And I cant see that any meaningful action was taken on the claim between 
March and June that year. So I think it caused a delay of around three months there. 
However after this, while I can see the claim was delayed, I dont think NHBC were 
responsible for these further delays. It had to wait for confirmation from Mr I about how he 
wished to proceed. Then when work was about to begin, the UK went into a national 
lockdown which meant this was no longer possible.
Mr and Mrs I have said they didnt think it was reasonable that the earliest date they were 
offered for work to re-start after lockdown was August 2020. They said they felt other work 
was prioritised above theirs which wasnt fair. 
I can understand how frustrating it would have been to find out that it would be another two 
months until work could start, after theyd already waited for so long. And I appreciate during 
this time they were unable to use their balcony, which would have been disappointing and 
inconvenient. However NHBCs contractors had a number of commitments for other jobs. 
And it chose to prioritise work that was required to vital areas of a house  such as kitchens 
and bathrooms. And I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont think the 
delay to starting work after lockdown could have reasonably been avoided by NHBC.
So while I dont doubt how upsetting it was for Mr and Mrs I to have to live with scaffolding 
on their property and without the use of their balcony, I dont think NHBC acted 
unreasonably by offering to start work in August. Based on this, overall I think NHBC caused 
a three month delay to Mr and Mrs Is claim. It has offered £500 compensation to make up 
for the delay caused. And I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs I have said that due to the delay in getting the work completed, theyve lost out 
on their dream home, as the sale fell through as they hadnt been ready to sell their own 
home. While I appreciate how distressing this would have been, I dont think this was due to the actions of NHBC. While I agree NHBC caused three months of the delays to the work 
being completed, the further delays were out of its control. So I cant say it was responsible 
for the work not being completed when the house they wanted came on the market.  
Mr and Mrs I have also complained about the contractors NHBC used. Theyve said they 
were rude and unhelpful on the phone, which caused additional distress. 
While I havent been able to listen to the call between Mr I and NHBCs contractor as it 
wasnt recorded, I dont doubt Mr Is account. And I agree this would have been distressing. I 
can also understand why Mr I may have wanted to use different contractors to carry out the 
work because of this. 
NHBC has explained that it only has one suitable approved contractor for the required work. 
It isnt unusual for insurance companies to only work with a limited number of suppliers, so I 
dont think this is unreasonable. Further NHBC has offered to pay a cash settlement rather 
than complete the work, so Mr and Mrs I could arrange a contractor they feel more 
comfortable with. And I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs I have also said theyre unhappy as the scaffolding has caused damage to their 
property while it has been in place. NHBC has asked its contractors to attend to fix any 
damage this has caused. And I think this is reasonable to resolve the problem.
For these reasons I think NHBC has acted fairly and reasonably. I agree it has caused three 
months of delays. And that its contractors didnt provide good service on the phone. 
However its offered £500 compensation to make up for the distress this would have caused. 
And I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman