DRN-1303256
 
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited has declined to deal with a claim 
on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them in great 
detail again here. In summary, Mr F was driving his car when there was a dashboard 
warning about adding oil to the engine. Shortly after that there was engine noise and he 
pulled over. The car was then recovered. A garage found there had been a complete oil leak 
and a catastrophic engine failure. An engineer considered the damage was consistent with a 
sharp object, like a stone, puncturing the exposed oil tank. Admiral agreed this was an 
insured event and was covered by the policy. But it also said Mr F wouldnt be covered for 
damage caused by the car being driven after the warning light, saying to refill the oil, had 
come on as he had breached a policy exclusion by continuing to drive the car.
Mr F doesnt think this is fair as he says he couldnt have known about the seriousness of 
the problem and he was following the instruction from his cars warning system to fill up the 
oil at the next refuelling.
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The engineers report Admiral obtained says the oil tank isnt protected as it is left 
exposed to aid cooling. And the damage to it appears to be caused by a sharp object 
consistent with a stone. The tank was later found to be drained of oil and this caused 
the engine failure. It also mentioned that the oil warning message displayed advised 
topping up the oil. The cars mileage also suggests the distance Mr F drove between 
the oil warning and the cars recovery was 8km.
The cars manufacturers manual says the oil warning says Mr F shouldve added 
one litre of oil when next refuelling. This is what Mr F says he saw and is the same as 
the engineer says wouldve been displayed in the car. The manual also says to avoid 
long journeys and check the oil when next refuelling as the oil has fallen to the 
minimum level. It only suggests there may be a more serious problem if the car 
needs regularly topping up which wasnt the case here.
Mr F couldnt have reasonably known continuing to drive the car wouldve caused a 
serious failure. The 8km travelled isnt a long distance where the car was telling Mr F 
to check the oil at the next refuelling. He didnt act unreasonably by driving this 
distance. And he stopped when engine noises started which was as soon as he 
became aware there might be a more serious problem. 
The engineer says Mr F tried to start the car nine times after the warning. But the 
manufacturer says this doesnt mean the engine was actually started. Just that the 
ignition cycle had taken place. Mr F says he did so to enable the radio and Bluetooth 
functions so he could make calls. There isnt enough evidence to say this worsened 
the damage or that Mr F attempted to continue to start the car to continue driving it.So, it is not fair for Admiral to apply the exclusion around continuing to drive the car 
and it should therefore reassess Mr Fs claim without applying this exclusion.
 
Mr F agrees with the investigators view. But Admiral doesnt. It says in summary that the 
warning was to refill the engine oil not just top it up at the next refuelling. There was 
adequate opportunity to prevent the catastrophic engine damage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed submissions about this complaint. Ive read and 
considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main issues.
Theres some dispute as to exactly what dashboard warning was displayed. Mr F says it was 
to add a litre of oil at the next refuelling and Admiral says it was to refill the oil.
But whichever warning was displayed Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr F wouldve been 
made aware while driving that he should stop his car immediately or risk catastrophic engine 
damage to it. And even if the warning had been more strident its reasonable to suggest he 
mightve had to drive on for a few kms before being able to stop safely. Thats what Mr F told 
Admiral had happened as he had to drive on until he could turn off the road to a safe place 
to stop. 
The engineer has established that the rapid loss of oil was caused by a sharp object 
puncturing the exposed and unprotected oil tank. And the engineer says that is consistent 
with it being hit by a stone. Im not persuaded that any previous warnings to top up the oil 
with another litre at the next refuelling are relevant to the current situation or in fact likely 
contributed to the engine damage here. When this event occurred there was obviously a 
rapid and complete loss of oil and Mr F says after the warning appeared he quickly noticed 
the engine making noises. As a result he stopped the car as soon as he safely could after 
travelling some 8km after the warning came on. 
I think that was entirely responsible and reasonable. As such I dont think Mr F can be 
blamed for driving on as he did for a short distance or for any damage the cars engine 
suffered.
Once stopped Mr F does appear to have turned on the cars ignition a number of times but I 
accept that he did so to activate the cars radio and Bluetooth rather than as an attempt to 
drive it again.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, and on balance, I dont think its fair or reasonable for 
Admiral to rely on the driving on exclusion in the policy to decline Mr Fs claim and it should 
now reconsider his claim without applying it. And I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And to put things right I think Admiral should now reconsider Mr Fs 
claim in line with the remaining terms, conditions and limits of the policy. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman