DRN-3275144
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around March 2017, Mrs H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs H decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a three year fixed sum interest-free loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In October 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Hs behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mrs H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £9,100 (sic) to mislead Mrs H, as 
when the interest was added the total cost was actually £9,199.72;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs H and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the system is significantly under-performing;
in particular, the quote stated that the system would pay for itself after 13 years, but 
based on its actual performance it will take about 50 years;
although Mrs H had understood that the system would not pay for itself within the 
loan term, she would not have bought it if she had known it would take 50 years.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs H could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Hs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mrs H makes it clear that the overall cost 
of the system is £9,200, and not £9,100 as the CMC says. This sets out a clear breakdown 
of the cash price (£9,200), the deposit (£100), the amount of credit provided (£9,100), the 
total charge for credit (nil), and the total amount repayable (£9,199.72). This complaint point 
is therefore misconceived.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs H that the system would be self-funding.
I do accept that Mrs H was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a period of 
about 13 years. The Key Facts page of the quote (page 2) has a graph detailing the 
estimated performance over 25 years. This shows that it would take 13 years for the overall benefits that Mrs H could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system. And page 
11 of the quote has a table showing in detail the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This shows that by the end of year 13 the overall benefits that Mrs H could expect 
to receive would have exceeded that price.
If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to 
enter into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that could amount to a 
misrepresentation. But I dont think it is. I will explain why in the next section.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs H. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,601 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Hs FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 2,705 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
However, I accept the CMCs observation that Mrs H has still not received the financial 
returns she was expecting, as described above. Even though the panels are not under-
performing in terms of FIT generation, as measured in kWh, they have not performed as 
estimated as measured in pounds sterling. So I have considered why that is.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mrs H hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs H could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs H entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mrs H to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its delay in responding to her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman