DRN-2575039
The complaint
Ms O and Mr S complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly 
declined a claim under their household insurance policy.
 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and not in dispute so Ill 
only summarise them here.
In 2019 Ms O and Mr S contacted Admiral as they were concerned about a crack that 
had appeared in their front room bay widow.
Admiral appointed a specialist firm to investigate the situation.
The specialist firm visited the property in May 2019 and again in August 2019. Ms O 
and Mr S say the specialists advised a third visit would be needed to monitor any 
movement.
In September 2019 Admiral advised it was declining the claim saying that the cause 
of the movement in the bay widow was due to gradual settlement of a layer of loose 
tarmac fill below the foundation of the bay. And that the foundations were not of 
sufficient depth. 
Ms O and Mr S complained to Admiral and in its final response it reconfirmed its 
position. It highlighted an exclusion in the policy:-
We will not cover you or be liable for any of the following:
6. Faulty design
Any loss or damage caused by faulty design, plan, specification, materials or 
workmanship.
And it advised its decision was made by experts in the field and should Ms O and Mr 
S decide to contest this it would require a professional expert report from them to 
refute this.
Ms O and Mr S brought their complaint to this service and our investigator didnt think 
Admiral had acted fairly in applying the exclusion. And recommended Admiral 
reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
Admiral asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators findings, and largely for the same reasons.
In its response to the investigators view Admiral said its expert confirmed the foundations 
under the bay window shouldve been to the same depth as the rest of the property. And it 
said it was no coincidence that the foundations in the area now affected by movement were 
shallower. It added that this service should be considering expert testimony above that of a 
lay person. And that ultimately its engineer had confirmed the cause of the problem as being 
due to loose tarmac fill being used and the foundations to the bay window being built above 
a drain run which it says is unsuitable to support the foundation.
Ive considered this, and the report it provided. And whilst Ms O and Mr S may not have 
provided expert testimony this doesnt mean I shouldnt question the conclusions reached by 
Admiral and how it reached them. 
Its believed the bay window is an extension added to the house in the 1980s and Im 
mindful of the length of time it hasnt experienced issues.
Admiral and its experts havent justified what the minimum depth of the bay widow 
foundations should be in order for movement not to have occurred, or why the foundations 
shouldve been the same depth as the rest of the house. And theres little to indicate why a 
foundation being built on top of drain run or using tarmac as an infill is unsuitable, and 
importantly, if it had been unsuitable why the issues didnt occur much earlier. That is not to 
say I believe tarmac infill to be a good material for a foundation, simply that if it had 
consolidated and caused movement its likely that issues wouldve shown sooner. And this 
didnt happen, so Im persuaded it has stood the test of time.
 
In this case Admiral and its experts havent provided a persuasive explanation as to why the 
foundations depth of 0.35m to the bay window isnt sufficient given it has not had problems 
for in excess of 30 years.  On balance I find it unfair for Admiral to rely on the faulty design 
exclusion.
 
Putting things right
  
My final decision
For the reasons above Im upholding this complaint and require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman