DRN-2699439
The complaint
Mr C complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner. 
What happened
Mr C was given two loans by ELL. He borrowed £3,500 in January 2019 and agreed to repay 
the loan in 24 monthly instalments. He refinanced that loan, and took some additional 
borrowing around eight months later, in September 2019. At that time he increased his total 
borrowing to £3,975 and again agreed to repay his loan in 24 monthly instalments.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
checks ELL had done before agreeing each loan had been proportionate. But she thought 
that the results of those checks should have led ELL to conclude that it was unlikely Mr C 
would be able to repay his borrowing in a sustainable manner. So she didnt think either loan 
should have been agreed and she asked ELL to pay Mr C some compensation.
Following that assessment ELL agreed that it shouldnt have given the first loan to Mr C. But 
it still thought it had been reasonable to provide the second loan. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process. If Mr C accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave these loans to Mr C required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In practice this 
meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr C undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr C.
ELL gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed each loan. It asked him for 
details of his income and his housing costs, and it used some industry statistical data to 
estimate his normal expenditure. It checked his credit file to assess how much he was 
repaying to other creditors. And ELL asked Mr C for copies of his bank statements to 
validate what hed said about his finances.
Mr C was entering into a significant commitment with ELL on each loan. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that ELL wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Cs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks the lender did achieved 
that aim. I think that the checks ELL performed before agreeing each loan were 
proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information that is shown by those checks. Sometimes that will 
result in a lender seeking further clarification about a consumers circumstances. Or, as 
I think should have happened here, it will result in a loan application being declined outright.
When he asked for the first loan Mr C told ELL that he wanted to use it to consolidate some 
credit card borrowing, and to pay an annual tax bill. But ELLs checks showed that Mr Cs 
indebtedness was far in excess of the credit card balance he intended to clear. His bank 
account was heavily overdrawn, at close to his overdraft limit. He also had a number of other 
substantial loans and a significant number of revolving credit accounts.
ELL had sight of Mr Cs bank statements. Those statements showed little in the way of day 
to day living costs. But they did show that Mr C transferred a substantial amount to his wife 
over the course of a month. Generally he transferred amounts equivalent to the income hed 
declared to the lender. So he was generally using new borrowing to meet his obligations on 
his outstanding loans.
ELLs own analysis of Mr Cs finances, although I accept that to a degree this relied on 
industry data to estimate his normal expenditure, suggested that after making his loan 
repayments he would have less than £50 left over each month. The industry data that ELL 
used only covered the bare essentials of day to day living. So Mr C would be left with very 
little each month to cover any additional expenditure or unexpected emergencies. I dont think that was a sustainable position, particularly considering that the loan would be 
expected to run for two years.
So I dont think it was reasonable for ELL to conclude that Mr C was likely to be able to 
afford to repay the first loan in a sustainable manner.
Less than a year after taking the first loan, Mr C asked to refinance it and take some 
additional borrowing. So his monthly repayments would increase as would the time he was 
indebted to the lender. He told ELL that he wanted to use the additional borrowing (of around 
£1,000) to refinance some other debts.
But ELLs credit check showed that Mr Cs finances were still under pressure. Whilst it is true 
that he had repaid a large hire purchase account, he had continued to borrow regularly 
during the time he held the first loan. His overdraft remained at its limit, as did a number of 
credit card accounts. And he continued to make significant transfers to his wife. I dont think 
it was reasonable to conclude that the disposable income that ELLs calculations suggested 
should be available to Mr C was present in reality. I dont think this loan should have been 
agreed either.
In summary, I think the results of the proportionate checks that ELL performed should have 
suggested that it was unlikely that Mr C would be able to repay his borrowing in a 
sustainable manner. So I dont think ELL should have agreed to give either loan to Mr C and 
needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I dont think ELL should have agreed to lend to Mr C in either January or September 2019. 
So ELL should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr C paid on loan 1 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat any payments 
Mr C has made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Cs loan 2 account as Ive directed results in Mr C effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Cs loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
ELL can use the total refund for loan 1 (after the deduction of tax) to offset this. And if 
there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind ELL that it should take a 
sympathetic view should it need to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to both 
loans 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman