DRN-2825678
The complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Insurance Limited shouldve applied updated terms and 
conditions when considering his critical illness claim.  
What happened
Mr O took out life and critical illness cover in 2009 with an insurance provider. Aviva has 
since acquired liability for his policy.
In 2019 Mr O made a critical illness claim for respiratory failure having sadly suffered cardiac 
arrest. Hes subsequently been diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) and emphysema. Aviva declined the claim because Mr O didnt meet the policy 
definition for respiratory failure as outlined in the terms and condition of his policy. Mr O told 
me his partner then obtained a copy of Avivas terms and conditions, and saw that cardiac 
arrest was a listed critical illness. And so, he contacted Aviva about making another claim, to 
which it said he wasnt covered.
Mr O complained to Aviva that it should apply its current terms and conditions to his claim for 
cardiac arrest, as it was now responsible for the administration of his policy. Aviva said the 
terms and conditions of Mr Os policy hadnt changed since he took it out in 2009, and that 
his claim for respiratory failure had been correctly assessed against those terms and 
conditions.
Mr O didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. He said at the point his policy 
was taken over by Aviva, he should no longer have been bound by the terms and conditions 
of the previous insurer. And should be covered by Avivas terms and conditions  which lists 
cardiac arrest as a specific critical illness.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said Mr O was bound by the 
terms and conditions he agreed to in 2009.  And that taking over administration of Mr Os 
policy didnt mean Aviva can change the terms of the contract Mr O previously agreed to.
Mr O disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said Aviva 
didnt make it clear when it took the policy over that the terms and conditions, he agreed to in 
2009, still applied. He said hes been paying for a policy based on terms and conditions that 
dont apply  and as a result his claim was unsuccessful. Mr O considered this to be an 
example of mis-selling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr O feels very strongly about his complaint, and so this will come as 
a disappointment to him. Hes been through a very difficult and worrying time, and I dont 
want him to think Ive taken this decision lightly, or in any way underestimate the severity of 
his condition and the impact this is having on him and his partner. But as Ill go on to explain, 
I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here.  
Ive read and considered the whole file  including further information Ive received from both 
Mr O and Aviva that wasnt available to the investigator. Ive also provided Mr O and Aviva 
with a chance to comment on my provisional thoughts on this case before issuing my final 
decision.
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, 
its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I 
need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive not looked at Avivas decision to decline Mr Os claim for respiratory failure, as that isnt 
in dispute here. Nor have I considered whether the 2009 policy was mis-sold to Mr O. That 
would be a new complaint that he would need to raise with Aviva or the third party who sold 
him the policy, if applicable.  
My focus is on which terms and conditions should apply to Mr Os claim, and if he has in any 
way been misled by Aviva into thinking the terms of his policy had changed to include cover 
for cardiac arrest.
As our investigator has explained, the terms and conditions agreed to at the point a policy is 
taken out, is the binding contract between the customer and the insurer. Those terms cant 
be changed by the insurer. Ive seen a copy of the policy schedule provided to Mr O in 2009 
and the associated terms and conditions. Both documents bear the same reference number 
 PN19  with the policy schedule specifically referencing the PN19 policy terms and 
conditions to Mr Os policy. Whilst those terms and conditions list respiratory failure as a 
specific critical illness, cardiac arrest is not covered. So, Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly by 
assessing Mr Os claim for respiratory failure against the 2009 terms and conditions hed 
agreed to  and that it was unable to consider a claim for cardiac arrest.
Ive looked carefully at Mr Os points about the information he received from Aviva when it 
took over responsibly for his policy. As well as what his partner was told when she contacted 
Aviva about making a claim. Ive also carefully considered whether Mr O was misled by 
Aviva into thinking his terms and conditions had changed  which in turn led him to believe 
he was covered for cardiac arrest.
Mr O has provided me with an extract of Avivas terms and conditions  showing cardiac 
arrest as a specified critical illness. He says he was sent this document by Aviva and was 
led to believe these were the terms of his policy. Ive asked Aviva about this and provided it 
with a copy of what Mr O provided to us. Aviva has confirmed these terms and 
conditions dont apply to Mr Os policy  and that he is not covered for cardiac arrest. And its 
also told me that because no change was made to the terms and conditions of Mr Os policy 
as a result of the takeover, it wouldnt have sent a copy to Mr O unless he had requested it  
which it has no records to show was the case. So, whilst I appreciate Mr O has obtained a 
copy of Avivas updated terms and conditions which include cover for cardiac arrest, Ive not 
seen any evidence to suggest Aviva sent these to him. 
I also asked Aviva for recordings of phone calls Mr Os partner had with Aviva about making 
a claim back in 2019, as I wanted to see if there was any evidence to show she was given 
wrong information or advice about what Mr O was covered for. In those calls Aviva makes no 
suggestion that Mr O is covered for cardiac arrest. It makes specific reference to the 2009 
terms and conditions in connection with respiratory failure. There is also a discussion around 
a letter received by Mr O dated June 2017 about the policy being taken over by Aviva, and 
that no changes would apply.I can fully understand Mr Os frustration that Avivas current terms and conditions differ from 
the terms of his policy from 2009  particularly as they wouldve been more favourable to 
him given his current state of health. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Aviva 
provided Mr O with the wrong terms and conditions, nor did it mislead him into thinking the 
terms of his policy had changed, and that he was covered for cardiac arrest. And given Mr O 
received a letter in June 2017 saying the policy wouldnt change, I think, on balance, it was 
reasonable for him to have been aware that Avivas more recent terms and conditions 
wouldnt apply to his policy. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here, and I wont be asking it to take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman