DRN-4317708
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to correctly account 
for her cash deposit resulting in a loss of funds.
What happened
A comprehensive review of the complaint was prepared by the investigator which both 
parties have already been sent. I dont intend to repeat those details unless it relates directly 
to the issues Im considering.
Mrs H had accumulated a large amount of cash and wanted to deposit it in a new account. 
She arranged with her branch of Nationwide to open the account and arranged an 
appointment to deposit her cash. On the day of the deposit, Mrs H was accompanied by a 
friend.
At the branch, Mrs H handed her cash to a branch member who took it into a private room.  
Mrs H said shed previously counted the money four times which totalled £40,000. Mrs H 
said that the bundles contained £50, £20 & £10 notes and she wanted to keep the new 
polymer notes and deposit the older paper notes. 
Once her money had been counted, she was told there was more cash than she thought 
shed handed to Nationwide. Mrs H told Nationwide that this wasnt correct but was told her 
cash had been counted multiple times, so accepted their word. She was handed back 
£13,590 and told at the time that £38,190 would be deposited into her new account. This 
would mean that Mrs H brought in £51,780 rather than £40,000.
About an hour later after returning home, Mrs H received a call from Nationwide who told her 
theyd counted her money incorrectly. Mrs H was told that shed actually deposited £25,690 
(rather than £38,190) and then a few days later this was then further amended to £24,440 
because an additional counting error had been detected.
By this point, Mrs H was very concerned about what was happening with her account and 
wanted answers from Nationwide.
Nationwide were asked about what happened in a complaint raised by Mrs H and they 
looked into the matter. Numerous persons within Nationwide were involved in the 
investigation into the conduct at the branch. 
They later explained that a counting machine had been set up wrongly and bundles of £50 
notes were mistakenly miscounted. Bundles only contained 25 notes instead of 50, resulting 
in an artificial inflation of the amount of cash actually deposited. Additionally, one of the 
miscounted bundles was missed on the first recount and not found for a few days when 
Nationwides cash carriers collected the money and checked it themselves. Nationwide 
confirmed that only £20 & £50 notes were present in the deposit given to them by Mrs H (no 
£10 notes)
Nationwide reviewed the CCTV for the cash counting room and it was noted by a senior 
manager that the machine could be seen to have been set up incorrectly, explaining the 
miscount. Nationwide also said that the notes were initialled at the time by the two 
employees who were counting the cash and that Mrs Hs funds were kept in a separate bag 
 which made it possible to determine there was an error when her deposit was originally 
counted.
Nationwide admitted to their errors and offered various amounts of compensation for the 
service Mrs H had received. Their final offer was £600 which Mrs H declined as she wanted 
higher compensation and the missing money credited to her account.
Mrs Hs position was that she deposited £40,000 and was given back £13,590 on the day. 
This meant that her account should have been credited with £26,410 rather than the £24,440 
recorded by Nationwide.
Mrs H remained unhappy with Nationwides handling of her issue and brought her complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by 
one of our investigators.
Evidence from both parties was obtained and considered before the investigator produced 
his recommendations regarding the complaint. It was accepted that Nationwide had made 
numerous errors when dealing with Mrs Hs cash deposit, but there was no evidence to say 
that money went missing. The records produced, including additional checks by other 
managers determined that the proper amount of money was credited to Mrs Hs account 
(£24,440).
The investigator thought the offer of £600 was reasonable that reflected the impact this had 
had on Mrs H but didnt recommend that Nationwide pay any further amounts related to the 
count of the funds or Mrs Hs belief that the original amount deposited was £40,000.
Mrs H disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of her complaint, which 
has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its quite apparent here that Nationwide have made a number of errors concerning the 
deposit made by Mrs H. I dont think theyll argue that they let her down and I note theyve 
recognised this in correspondence they sent Mrs H.
The crux of the complaint is that Mrs H believes she took £40,000 with her on the day to 
Nationwide who then failed to account for it after returning the new notes to her. Nationwide 
believe that theyve properly accounted for the money given to them by Mrs H.
The cash was accumulated over the years by Mrs H and she told our service it was counted 
by her four times. I dont doubt Mrs Hs belief that she counted the funds totalling £40,000. 
Unfortunately, here, theres no independent corroboration of the original amount of money 
gathered by Mrs H that I can consider in support of her assertion.
I was surprised at how Nationwide didnt realise that theyd made such a large error when 
they first counted the money. During the visit, Mrs H told them the figure they had was 
wrong, but they chose to believe the counting machine rather than check their workings. 
What Nationwide were telling Mrs H was that shed brought in over £11,000 more than she 
thought  a seemingly large miscalculation.The error was soon noticed, and Mrs H informed about it about an hour after she got home. 
But again, the extent of the error wasnt fully checked because one other bag of £50 notes 
was miscounted. It wasnt until the following business day that the error was noticed due to 
an external company picking up the cash and further checks being carried out.
So, the original error was compounded by failing to properly check the cash  something I 
struggled to comprehend when it was already known the cash counting machine had been 
set wrongly. I did also wonder about the funds returned to Mrs H, and whilst theres no 
evidence to say this was incorrect, based on the various counting errors, Im not confident 
about any of the figures given by Nationwide on the day of the deposit. 
Nationwide have said the branch employees counting the funds initialled the notes brought 
in by Mrs H and put them in a separate bag  thereby segregating those notes from other 
cash held at the branch. This provides a measure of confidence that the original cash  
deposited was kept together and even though it was mistakenly recounted, ultimately the 
final figure was arrived at. Given there were numerous employees involved plus an 
independent cash courier (who would need to be certain what cash they were collecting), Im 
as confident as I can be that the final figure was the correct one.
I also note that a senior manager not connected with the branch viewed CCTV of the original 
count. Its unfortunate that this is no longer available for me to review, so Ive accepted the 
report from Nationwide as evidence it was viewed and nothing untoward noted. 
I understand Mrs H feels that there were opportunities to lose her funds due to the time her 
cash was kept in the branch. Having considered all the available evidence, I think the 
answer lies with a poor application of Nationwides procedures, compounded by a failure to 
properly follow up the original error, rather than a more sinister explanation.
Of course, if Mrs H wishes to report the matter to the appropriate criminal investigatory 
authorities, then shes free to do so.
Overall, I think Mrs H was very badly let down, particularly at the stage of life shes at and 
the personal difficulties shes experiencing that shes kindly told us about. Whilst those 
matters arent the responsibility of Nationwide, their errors here caused Mrs H continued 
distress.  However, I dont think the evidence Ive seen shows that Mrs H lost funds when 
she handed them to Nationwide that day, and Im satisfied the £600 offered by Nationwide is 
both a fair and reasonable way for them to recognise the impact this had on her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman