DRN-4168324
The complaint
Mr G complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) didnt carry out 
sufficient affordability checks before it granted loans to him. 
What happened
Mr G took three loans from Cashfloat and a summary of his borrowing can be found below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £1,000.00 15/08/2020 07/12/2020 7 £298.25
2 £350.00 13/01/2021 29/01/2021 4 £144.91
break in lending 
3 £500.00 27/11/2021 30/12/2021 5 £192.75
Cashfloat wrote to Mr G with a final response letter and explained why it didnt consider an 
error had been made by providing these loans. Unhappy Mr G referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and he didnt uphold it. In summary, this 
was because there was a gap in lending between loans two and three. He also thought that 
Cashfloat had carried out proportionate checks - which showed the loans to be affordable. 
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and instead asked for an ombudsmans 
review. Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Gs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:
Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Gs complaint and I agree. 
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint. 
There is a significant break in lending between loan two being repaid and loan three being 
granted. This break in my view, is significant enough for Cashfloat to have treated Mr Gs 
third loan application as if he was a new customer. This does have implications for the 
proportionate nature of the checks because the third loan effectively becomes loan one in a 
new lending chain. Ive kept this in mind when thinking about Mr Gs overall lending history. 
Before these loans were approved, Cashfloat took details of Mr Gs income and expenditure. 
Cashfloat recorded that Mr G worked full time and received a monthly salary of £1,850 for 
loans one and two and £1,950 for loan three. Cashfloat says his declared income was cross 
referenced with a third-party salary tool, and the results were positive, indicating a high 
degree of accuracy. 
For the final loan, Cashfloat says it requested a copy of a payslip due to Mr Gs income 
increasing  and a copy of that payslip has been provided which shows in October 2021, 
Mr G received nearly £2,200 per month. However, despite this Cashfloat says it still used - 
for the purposes of its affordability assessment - a more conservative monthly income figure 
of £1,950.
Cashfloat also made enquiries about his living costs, which Mr G declared to be £750 per 
month for loans one and three and £1,000 per month for loan two.
Its worth saying here that Cashfloat says that it assessed Mr Gs monthly expenditure using 
what is calls trigger values  these take account of an applicants job, location, homeowner 
status to name a few factors. Having used these trigger values it estimated Mr Gs monthly 
outgoings were likely to be around £1,359 and to that it added a further buffer of £100. Even 
using the larger monthly outgoings along with the buffer, there was sufficient disposable 
income.
It doesnt appear that Cashfloat carried out a credit search before these loans were 
approved. But there was no regulatory requirement to do one. So, the fact no credit search 
was likely conducted isnt a reason to solely uphold the complaint
As part of the assessment Cashfloat knew, because Mr G had told it, that he lived at home 
with parents which would likely have given it more confidence that the loans would be affordable given Mr G hadnt declared any priority bills that would need to be paid out of his 
income such as a mortgage or council tax. 
Based on the checks that Cashfloat did do, Im satisfied these were proportionate to the 
circumstances of each loan and so while Mr G has sent copy bank account statements. In 
this case, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Cashfloat to have considered them.
I say this because his borrowing history  so thinking about the amounts borrowed and the 
gaps between loans. The way Mr G repaid his loans as well as what Cashfloat discovered 
through its checks wouldnt, in my view have led it to be believe that it needed to go further, 
such as reviewing his bank statements. To have reviewed the bank statements wouldve 
been disproportionate in the circumstances. 
There also wasnt anything else, such as the way Mr G repaid his loans, that wouldve led 
Cashfloat to believe that it needed to conduct further checks or to have declined his 
applications for credit. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship  and Mr G was only granted three loans in 
two lending chains, I think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to have relied on the information 
Mr G provided to it  which showed he had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayments. There also wasnt anything to suggest that Mr G was having either current 
financial difficulties or to indicate the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman