DRN-3990997
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about their home insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited in respect of a claim they made when an oil leak contaminated their home.
What happened
There was a leak in 2018 and a claim was made in November. By March 2019 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with the work that was being done by a specialist appointed by 
Lloyds. They complained and Lloyds agreed that Mr and Mrs W could appoint their own 
specialist. Lloyds also paid Mr and Mrs W £250 compensation. 
Lloyds though had also, already appointed a loss adjuster to assist with the claim. The 
adjuster made its first report in February 2019. In around September 2019 Lloyds agreed to 
move the family into alternative accommodation and they moved from their large house (and 
garden) to a flat. They remained there through to late 2021  the concrete floors in the home 
only having been re-laid in June 2021. But Lloyds stopped paying for the cost of alternative 
accommodation in May 2021, and refused to cover various reinstatement costs. 
Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs W £57,000 in July 2020 for reinstatement work. They had appointed 
a contractor to do the works, including that recommended by the specialist, and the 
contractor felt the input of a structural engineer (SE) was needed. To which Lloyds agreed. 
The SE, in a November 2020 report, advised how to remove and replace supporting, 
contaminated brickwork. In December 2020, with no scope of works created for the work 
found necessary by the SE, and so that work could get under way without delay, Lloyds 
agreed in principle to the recommendations, advising Mr and Mrs W that it would agree costs 
later. It was spring 2021 when costs were submitted and Lloyds sent its surveyor to the 
property. Lloyds found the property had been extensively remodelled and work was 
on-going. So it wasnt prepared to pay further accommodation costs (beyond May) and it 
wouldnt agree to pay the majority of costs Mr and Mrs W put forward as stemming from the 
recommendations in SEs November 2020 report.
 
Lloyds did pay Mr and Mrs W £13,957.70 towards their outlay for reinstatement, but they put 
Lloyds liability at around £180,000. Mr and Mrs W also felt Lloyds had forgotten or 
overlooked paying them for things like gym membership and electricity costs incurred during 
the period of works and the family living away from home. They felt it also needed to 
reinstate an out-house and concreted dog-run area which they said Lloyds first contractor 
had destroyed. Mr and Mrs W said that even since the first contractor had been taken off the 
job, the claim had been poorly handled and stressful.
Mr and Mrs W complained to us. 
Our Investigator thought Lloyds had handled and settled the claim reasonably. So he didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy. Their complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
consideration. I was minded to uphold the complaint  but not to the extent of requiring 
Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs W £180,000. I felt it was reasonably liable for paying for some 
more of the work than reflected by its payment of £13,957.70, but not for all the work that 
represents the £180,000 Mr and Mrs W were asking for. So I issued a provisional decision to 
explain my views on the complaint, including in respect of the other outstanding cost issues, 
the dog-run and claim handling. My provisional findings were:
The SE report and Lloyds direction to go-ahead
I think the problem now at hand  what does Lloyds reasonably owe for work completed at 
the property?  stems from what happened following the November 2020 SEs report. The 
November report was crucial in directing the course of the work. And I completely 
understand that Lloyds wanted to progress the claim once that direction was available. But 
the SE wasnt to be involved in implementing the work  and his report didnt contain much 
detail, and certainly no scope of works, for how the contractor, employed by Mr and Mrs W, 
should go about accessing the brickwork that the SE was recommending replacing. Which 
meant the result of Lloyds direction to go ahead and sort the money out later was to leave 
it up to the contractor to decide what he felt the best course of action was for doing that. 
I think that came with a very real and obvious risk that he would do things differently to 
how Lloyds experts would expect or think things should be done. But Lloyds courted that 
risk by choosing to take that course. So, I think its only fair that it covers the costs that 
reasonably came from that decision.
Now I realise that Mr and Mrs W will likely think that all of their requested £180,000 comes 
reasonably from that decision. But Im not persuaded that is the case. 
The essence of the SEs report was that the brickwork of an internal supporting wall should 
be replaced. And that should be reached by removing the sub-floor on either side of that wall 
(which was at different levels on each side). The report includes a brief drawing showing that 
in the utility and boot room, where the floor was lowest, the sub-floor should be dug out to a 
depth of 600mm, at a 45 degree angle from the surface, suggesting the hole needed in the 
utility room floor would come out about 600mm from the wall. On the other side of the wall 
was the sitting area of the open plan kitchen and the stairs in the hall. The floor level on that 
side was higher. So the report says that digging out 1.2m of sub-floor would be necessary, 
also at a 45 degree angle, suggesting the hole on this side of the wall would need to extend 
1.2m from the wall. There was also a floor-plan for the house which showed that the area to 
dig out on both sides should start in-line with the turn in the stairs in the hall and extend 
along to roughly halfway through the sitting area of the kitchen.
The contractor, in implementing that though, seems to have dug out a larger area of floor 
than seems reasonably to have been necessary even given that limited detail. The kitchen 
was also taken out, with some cabinets and the granite worktop reportedly being irreparably 
damaged in doing so, the whole of the tiled floor in the kitchen, hall and elsewhere was lifted 
and the stairs, along with the under-stairs cupboard were removed. I think the entire extent 
of that work was not reasonable, even given Lloyds direction to go ahead and sort the costs 
later whilst knowing the detail from the SE was so limited. 
Reasonable reinstatement
Removing the stairs and under-stairs cupboard was, I think a reasonable way to progress 
work which entailed digging out of the floor below the stairs, to the point at which they 
turned. Lloyds might have chosen to work in a confined space, particularly in the lower part 
of the stairs in the area of the turn, but I dont think the contractor choosing a course which 
avoided that difficulty was unreasonable. So I think the reasonable reinstatement area, along 
the internal wall, begins at the leading edge of the stairs along that wall. Likewise I think that reasonably it was always likely that some tiling, in the hall as well as the 
sitting area of the kitchen, would be affected. The hole had to come out 1.2m from the wall to 
allow for the angle and depth of removal the SE recommended. And I think its reasonable to 
say that tiling beyond the 1.2m line, even with careful removal of tiles within that area and 
digging out along the leading edge, would be damaged. I think its likely that tiling up to 2m 
from the wall, would likely have been affected by the work such that it would reasonably 
need replacing. And I think that on the other side of the wall, where the hole only had to 
extend from it by 600mm, any finishing surfaces up to 1m would similarly reasonably have 
been affected.
I think its also reasonable to say that the finishing surface of the internal wall, in the utility, 
boot room, sitting area and hall/stairs, would naturally suffer during the work, I think even if 
the wall surface in those rooms was covered, the dusty nature of the work immediately under 
and in front of that surface would result in it needing redecorating during the reinstatement 
phase. 
So far Lloyds has not agreed liability for most of that work. But I think it should now review 
the two spreadsheets of costs Mr and Mrs W presented to it with a view to taking liability for 
any of the work detailed therein that relates to the details in these above three paragraphs. It 
will have to give its view on the costs stated by Mr and Mrs W for that work and will not be 
able to decline liability for it. Im aware that Lloyds thinks it should have been given notice 
about the stair removal  but I disagree. As I said I think that was a reasonable way for the 
contractor to choose to implement the SEs recommendations, and Lloyds allowed for that 
choice to occur. Im also aware that Lloyds thinks that it shouldnt have to pay for things like 
tiling because Mr and Mrs W did not reinstate their home as it was before. But Lloyds should 
know that when it settles a claim in cash that allows its policyholder the freedom to use the 
settlement in the way that they wish, and it isnt unusual for a policyholder to then take the 
opportunity to make changes to their home. So the fact that Mr and Mrs W were changing 
their home does not mean Lloyds can fairly decline liability for what they were reasonably 
entitled to from it under the policy  the cost for reinstating their home as it was before. 
Loss of match
Lloyds may be wondering though what liability I might be envisaging it has for a situation 
where items it is reasonably liable for, in line with what Ive said above, could not be 
replaced on a like basis which would, in theory, create a lack of match. In other words that if 
Mr and Mrs W could only, for example, replace damaged tiles with different ones to those 
that werent likely reasonably damaged by the necessary work, that would cause a lack of 
match to those undamaged tiles, which in most circumstances would remain in-situ. And this 
service will often expect insurers to compensate for such a loss. But here I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to say that in revising its liability for the cost of necessary works, 
Lloyds should have to make any allowance for a circumstance of theoretical loss of match. 
As I said, this service usually expects insurers to take into account a lack of match and 
compensate for it. That is often on the basis of the insurer paying towards the cost of 
replacing the undamaged, matching items. This is often not something afforded by the policy 
(although some insurers do choose to offer it). Rather it is something this service usually 
finds to be fair because the policyholder, as a result of a claim, shouldnt have to live with, or 
be entirely responsible for avoiding having to live with, a mis-matching finish. But here 
Mr and Mrs W were never going to face a mis-match because they took the opportunity to 
change their home and the finishes within it. In light of that I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct Lloyds to take any loss of match into account when reviewing the 
costs in order to make a revised settlement to Mr and Mrs W. 
Kitchen replacement (including underfloor heating)Now I know that Mr and Mrs W will say that all of the tiling in the kitchen at least, had to 
come up because of underfloor heating. And the kitchen had to come out because of that, 
and/or because of the extent to which the floor was being dug up. 
I dont think the kitchen reasonably had to come out for the floor to be dug up. And even if it 
had to come out because of the tiling, and the tiling had to come up because of underfloor 
heating  in that respect I think Mr and Mrs W acted somewhat recklessly by not reverting 
back to Lloyds before going ahead with that work. Mr and Mrs W have said that removal of 
the kitchen was never initially intended  that it was boxed off to protect it instead. I think that 
was a reasonable approach given the location of the kitchen  being more than two metres 
away from the internal wall. And I know Mr and Mrs W were of the view that the kitchen and 
tiles were of a high finish and knew that Lloyds had not inspected the area or agreed what 
costs were necessary, or even indeed what work was likely necessary for implementing the 
SEs plan. So I think they acted unreasonably when forging ahead with that work without 
reverting to Lloyds and instead expecting that its direction to go ahead meant they had an 
open remit for implementing the plan. I think Mr and Mrs W should reasonably have foreseen 
that Lloyds would want to consider this work further before agreeing to it. 
I think they also likely knew that Lloyds had no idea of the presence of underfloor heating in 
the kitchen. But rather than opting, when their contractor told them that working on the 
brickwork of the internal wall would necessarily damage the underfloor heating such that it 
would need replacing, which would cause a lot of knock-on work, to tell Lloyds and give it 
chance to consider this, they went ahead. Whilst many photos have been taken during the 
course of the work, no photos of the underfloor heating; either in-situ, or having been 
removed and waiting to be disposed of, have been provided. Mr and Mrs W seem to me to 
be prudent, intelligent people, and theyd been living with this claim for a long time and were 
well aware, I think, that Lloyds needed evidence to act. Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable of me to make Lloyds liable for any costs that relate to removal or what it would 
have cost to replace the underfloor heating, including in respect of knock-on work such as 
removing the kitchen. 
Summary
So, in essence, my review has found that Lloyds is reasonably liable to Mr and Mrs W for the 
cost of reinstating the area I think was likely reasonably affected by the work to the internal 
wall. And Ive explained that, in my view, that area begins at the leading edge of the stairs 
along that wall, and ends part way through the sitting area, extending into the hall and sitting 
area to 2m and, on the other side of the wall, into the utility and boot room by 1m. Lloyds 
wont be liable for an loss of match compensation and nor will it have to pay for the cost of 
removing and replacing tiling beyond that area, or for removing and replacing the kitchen 
and underfloor heating. Lloyds should work out its costs using the spreadsheets that already 
show its uplift to £13,957.70, and it should show what it now (following my final decision if it 
remains the same and Mr and Mrs W accept it) will pay for the work Ive said its liable for. 
Lloyds can calculate its liability excluding VAT. To that sum interest* will have to be added 
from the date the spreadsheets were sent to it in spring 2021, until settlement is made.
VAT
Im not making any award regarding VAT for these revised costs because it seems that 
Mr and Mrs W most likely havent actually done that work, theyve done other work instead. 
But if there is any element that is the same, perhaps the staircase for example, they can 
submit invoices to Lloyds and if they show that work, reasonably in line with what was there 
before, has been done, it should pay the related VAT due on the cost it agreed to pay for 
that work. On a similar note, Mr and Mrs W have said that Lloyds hasnt paid them £11,400 of VAT due 
against the July settlement sum of £57,000. But I note that when Lloyds offered that sum, it 
said it would look to pay VAT as and when invoices showing VAT, on the work agreed for 
that sum, had been completed. I havent seen the scope against which £57,000 was paid. If 
that included things like the digging out of the floor, then it seems likely to me that work was 
done and Mr and Mrs W might have invoices showing such, and that VAT is due. If they do, 
then they should send the invoices for work to Lloyds for it to consider making a VAT 
payment to them up to the value of £11,400. 
Financial losses
Mr and Mrs W have also complained that Lloyds has not made any payment to them for 
electricity costs, loss of oil, contents cover for the temporary accommodation, gym 
membership, broadband, land and property charges, and £2,500 for moving home.  
Machines were used during the initial phase of the claim to extract vapours from the air that 
had been released into it as a consequence of the oil leak. The machines were powered by 
the homes mains electricity. So the cost for running them reasonably comes under the 
claim. But the family were still living at home during this time. So Lloyds couldnt just take 
readings before installation of the machines and then after to work out what they had used. 
Lloyds doesnt dispute, I dont think, that it owes Mr and Mrs W a payment in this respect 
under the claim. Mr and Mrs W should, therefore, provide electricity bills to Lloyds, showing 
their usage during the period the machines were working, but also for the same period prior 
to their installation. Lloyds can then compare the usage in the different periods to help it 
determine what power was likely used by the machines necessarily installed as a result of 
the claim and what that cost Mr and Mrs W. It will then have to pay this to them, plus interest 
from the date any extra costs, due to the usage of the machines, was paid by them until 
settlement is made. But Mr and Mrs W will need to present their evidence in a timely manner 
 Ive explained at the end of this section what period I think that is and what will happen if 
the evidence is provided later.  
Arguably any of the reinstatement work would also have used the homes power such that 
the electricity used could be a cost reasonably due under the claim. But Im not going to 
extend my award to the cost of electricity used after the vapour extraction machines were 
removed and/or the next phase of stripping the property and digging out the floors began. At 
that time Mr and Mrs W were making substantial changes to their property and theres no 
reasonable way to determine what electricity was used in the pursuit of those uninsured 
changes as against the insured work that was also on-going.   
The loss of oil is something that Lloyds policy offers Mr and Mrs W some cover for. It is 
something they can claim for under the contents section of the policy. But I understand there 
is a limit to Lloyds liability in this respect. If they want to make a claim for oil lost, they should 
contact Lloyds, and it should consider the claim.        
The other items in the list above are all costs associated with the family living elsewhere. 
And in respect of gym membership at least, Lloyds has previously agreed to pay for that 
cost. The email correspondence on file shows that Mr W agreed to come back to Lloyds 
after the claim was resolved in respect of this cost at least  that way the total outlay could 
be taken into account rather then he and Lloyds working on a piecemeal basis. I can 
understand Lloyds and Mr and Mrs W wanting to deal with costs like this at the end. I think 
that for the contents cover, gym membership, broadband, land and property service charges, 
as well as the costs associated with moving home, Mr and Mrs W should send evidence of 
their outlay to Lloyds. It can then consider its liability, or at least the extent of it, for each of 
these and make any payment fairly and reasonably due. I think some interest should be applied to any settlement to be paid on these costs, but as the parties wanted to deal with 
matters at the end, I wont require that to be applied from the date each cost was paid for by 
Mr and Mrs W. Rather I think it should reasonably be applied from a date a week after the 
additional settlement sum of £13,957.70 was paid to Mr and Mrs W in July 2020, and until 
settlement is made. 
With all that in mind, Mr and Mrs W should present their evidence of outlay, for these items 
and the electricity usage to Lloyds within 30 days of the date we tell it theyve accepted my 
final decision (if it remains the same and they do). If they provide the evidence later, the 
interest* application will cease temporarily at the end of the 30 day period and begin being 
applied again when Lloyds receives the evidence, remaining until settlement is made.  
Outbuilding and dog-run
The final thing for me to look at before I look at the general handling of this claim, is the 
outbuilding and concreted dog-run. Mr and Mrs W said that Lloyds first contractor destroyed 
these and they want Lloyds to agree to covering the cost of their reinstatement. 
In considering this, I bear in mind that they havent described or shown how these were 
destroyed. And Lloyds did accept that the area needed some remediation following the leak 
 but due to a dispute that arose between it and Mr and Mrs W as to the extent of that work, 
nothing was done in this area. Lloyds file shows that work was planned to make the 
materials in the area safe from the oil contamination but that Mr and Mrs W werent prepared 
to let that work go ahead as they werent satisfied with the extent of it, or at least not with the 
extent of the remedial work that was planned to follow. In essence that the concrete would 
be patch repaired. And when the first contractor stopped work at the property this was 
exactly the dispute that was in progress  not that the area/outbuilding had been destroyed 
by that contractor and Lloyds wouldnt pay for their reinstatement. I think, given how 
unhappy Mr and Mrs W clearly were at that time, about what had been done and the extent 
to which they felt the first contractor had got things wrong  if anything had been destroyed, 
theyd have complained about exactly that. But they didnt. So I cant reasonably find that 
Lloyds must pay for the cost of reinstating these on the basis it destroyed them. 
However, Lloyds has agreed to go out and reassess the area to see if it still needs 
remediation  it says the oil contamination may have dissipated with the passage of time and 
action of the elements. I think that is a reasonable response from Lloyds, so Ill include it 
doing so within my award. Along with it doing any work found necessary, or paying 
Mr and Mrs W the cost of that. 
Id add here though that if this area at the property has changed so dramatically, such that 
there is no longer an outbuilding or concreted dog-run there, then Lloyds will not have to 
attend and consider remediation in this respect any further, although I am going to suggest it 
makes a payment. Ive seen nothing that makes me think Lloyds actions or inactions most 
likely destroyed the area or damaged it such that the only way to resolve it would have 
been to demolish it and re-build. And if Mr and Mrs W felt that was the case, they should 
have reverted to Lloyds on this issue before acting to remove it. Not doing so prejudiced 
Lloyds position to assess its liability in this respect and I dont think its reasonable, or 
workable in practice, to require it to consider that now. 
That said, Lloyds had a plan for removing oil contamination from that area and reinstating it 
 so it likely would have known how much that would cost  or at least it can likely easily 
determine that. And I think that was a claim cost it was always liable for. The fact that a 
dispute arose, the claim moved on and the property changed during reinstatement, did not 
change or reasonably remove that liability. So, if the outbuilding and concreted dog-run no 
longer exist, Lloyds should calculate what it would have cost to repair and reinstate that area as it had planned to do so in 2019/2020. It should then add interest* to that sum from the 
date that work was scoped for until settlement is made and pay the total to Mr and Mrs W.
Claim handling
I havent seen anything that makes me think Lloyds handled the claim poorly or caused 
delays since its loss adjuster was appointed and Mr and Mrs W began using their own 
specialist. It was agreed in March 2019 that Mr and Mrs W could appoint their own specialist. 
And the specialist completed its first report in May 2019  with Lloyds being sent it for review 
at that time and agreeing straightaway to the specialist completing investigation work. 
In August it became apparent that the family could no longer stay in their home and Lloyds 
offered to find them alternative accommodation. I think Lloyds acted reasonably in this 
respect at this time. Lloyds agreed to the family seeking emergency accommodation in the 
short-term, and within two-weeks the parties had come to an agreement, put forward by 
Mr and Mrs W, for the family to move into a flat they own but usually rent out, with Lloyds 
covering the cost of the rental income that would be lost. I think Lloyds managed this issue 
reasonably and I cant fault it for Mr and Mrs W living in a property that was not like their own 
because they chose that property.   
It was then November 2019 before the specialist forwarded its next report, which included a 
repair scope, to Lloyds. Understandably Lloyds wanted its own specialists to review that. 
Also understandably in my view, Lloyds chose to challenge some of the work detailed and it 
also wanted to know what the likely costs would be, but the specialist hadnt priced the work 
itself and only one quote from a contractor was provided. In February 2020 Lloyds surveyor 
sent a revised scope, including costs, to Mr and Mrs W for consideration. I think that was 
handled reasonably by Lloyds.
From there it seems that Mr and Mrs Ws specialist began taking on more of a validation role 
 ensuring the necessary specialist work had been done, rather than undertaking it or even 
overseeing it itself. But also that the contractor working for Mr and Mrs W had begun the 
necessary work to remove materials contaminated by the oil. From what Ive seen the 
parties then, in around April 2020, began negotiating the revised scope and costs put 
forwards by Lloyds (in February 2020). This resulted in Lloyds initial claim settlement of 
£57,000 being made in July 2020. I think that timeframe was reasonable in the 
circumstances  there was clearly a lot to discuss and a number of people involved in the 
consideration, furthermore the work was somewhat complex and the sums in question  
even at that time, were not inconsiderable. I dont think it was unreasonable for either party 
to have challenged the others view on this and that naturally lead to an unavoidable period 
of delay before the payment was finally agreed to and made in July 2020. 
I know some further costs came to Lloyds for consideration in August and that the specialist 
then completed a further report on what had been done so far, and what work was still 
needed, in October 2020. Also that around that time, Mr and Mrs Ws contractor had asked 
for input from a SE. The SE report came in November 2020 and it was then December 2020 
when Lloyds gave its go-ahead in principle for the work to be done. Lloyds, reasonably, 
I think, had to wait for the expert reports, and when they were received it acted on them, in 
my view, in a reasonably timely manner to progress the claim.
I know Mr and Mrs W were disappointed that, shortly after Lloyds gave the go-ahead in 
principle, it asked for an update on when the family might move home. But I dont think 
Lloyds acted unreasonably when asking for that update. It needed to ensure the claim 
moved on in a timely manner and Id have expected the contractor to have had an idea how 
long the work would likely take. At that time Lloyds had paid for the alternative accommodation up to May 2021. And it was 
only in March 2021 that Mr and Mrs W sent their revised costs for work in the utility and boot 
room following the SEs recommendations. Costs for the hall and sitting area followed 
thereafter  but no costs for these rooms had been considered at all previously, that is 
because it was only with the SEs November report that work on the sub-floor, on both sides 
of the internal wall, became necessary. Lloyds had told Mr and Mrs W in December 2020 
that it would consider additional costs later. And once it received the revision for the utility 
and boot room, followed by the costs requested for the hall and sitting area, that is exactly 
what it did. Its offer to pay £13,957.70 for this additional work came in mid-May 2021. I think 
that was handled reasonably, including in a reasonably timely manner, given the 
complexities of the claim, including the changes which had occurred to the property. 
Given all of the work that was done at the property I dont think it was unreasonable that 
Lloyds wouldnt pay for alternative accommodation beyond May 2021. That is even though it 
did not make its payment for the offered amount of £13,957.70 until after that. And, even that 
Ive found above, that that was not fair and reasonable to meet the extent of its liability for 
the claim. But the family seem to have had to remain living elsewhere beyond May 2021 
because the concrete floors at their home were not re-laid until the summer, and these then 
needed time to dry. And Im not satisfied that the laying of the floors was delayed due to 
Lloyds handling the claim unfairly and unreasonably, thereby causing delays. Im also not 
satisfied, given how much other work was being done, that the floors only being laid in the 
summer of 2021 was a natural likely consequence of the reinstatement work necessary 
under the policy. It is only in the event of policy entitlement or an insurer causing a delay 
which then impacts on the work, that I could reasonably require the insurer to pay for an 
extended period of alternative accommodation. That, in my view, simply is not the case here. 
Whilst I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs W, I havent found that, in the way it 
handled their claim, Lloyds failed them. As such I dont intend to make any award for 
compensation due to any upset experienced, and nor do I intend to make it pay for a longer 
period of alternative accommodation.
Lloyds said it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs W provided comments against my provisional decision document. Ive read 
everything and summarised here their main points:
They did not receive £250 following their complaint in March 2019.
Air quality tests had delayed the floors being laid until late June 2021.
It was the specialist, not the contractor which requested the SE input.
Concrete was not dug up extensively in the dog-run area, but a trial pit was dug and 
boreholes were made in the outbuilding floor, piercing the damp proof membrane. So 
this area does need reinstating.
Lloyds letter of 15 June 2021 upheld their second complaint; an alternative surveyor  
who was affiliated with the loss adjuster  attended their home, but two and a half 
months after Lloyds first surveyor had done and he had less information available to 
him, yet Lloyds completed a u-turn on its view of things.
The measurements I had used when talking about the SE report were incorrect  it was 
more like 1.5m, and the contractor applied half a metre tolerance. So there was at least a 
2m impact into the rooms.
Most decoration costs were already taken into account in the payment of £57,000, the 
additional costs requested are really for demolition, and the expanded scope, the former 
of which at least Lloyds agreed to pay for.
There was no plan to change the tiling in the kitchen and hallway and the footprint 
remained the same.
Its not fair to refuse compensation for loss of match.The specialist recalled that underfloor heating in the kitchen would not be affected by 
work in the lower area on the other side of the wall.
The fact of a radiator (an argument Lloyds had raised) did not mean there was no 
underfloor heating in place.
A statement from their contractor confirmed there was underfloor heating.
They did not act unreasonably when going ahead with works, I should consider their 
position in all of the claim activity  how long it had been going on for and how it had 
been handled. They really needed to progress things.
Lloyds gave the go-ahead for work with no caveat to inspect or provide evidence. Theyd 
have been more diligent if Lloyds had indicated it would not honour this agreement.
When the fans were in use, they were spending less time at home than normal so it was 
agreed that electricity usage would be calculated using the power rating of the fans.
They will contact Lloyds about the loss of oil and the items listed regarding costs incurred 
for the family living elsewhere.
Theyd complained to the first contractor and the loss adjuster about headaches and 
breathing issues  but it was still several months before action was taken.
It wasnt that they felt Lloyds shouldnt enquire about the progress of the work  rather 
that its enquiry showed it had agreed for the work as a whole to progress, not just the 
structural, below floor work. 
In May 2021 the floors werent laid and there was no plumbing installation, satisfactory 
air quality results were not achieved until mid-June 2021. Electricity work and tiling 
followed with kitchen and sanitary ware being fitted in December 2021. Further works 
followed in early 2022 and the family moved home in April 2022. Its not unreasonable to 
request some further extension to accommodation costs after May 2021.
Lloyds concern about paying for extra costs beyond May 2021 is noted, but a further six 
months of costs, given the state of the property in mid-June 2021, is not unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds file records £250 being offered in respect of what had happened in the first few 
months of the claim. It also records that a cheque for this sum was requested to be sent in 
April 2019. If Mr and Mrs W did not receive this cheque or did but didnt cash it, they can ask 
Lloyds to reissue it.
I was aware when issuing my provisional decision that satisfactory air quality tests were not 
achieved until June 2021.
Mr W and his contractor had discussed the remediation scheme proposed by the specialist 
and explained to the specialist that they believed there was a better way of doing things  
removing the blockwork. So the specialist said if that was done an SE should be appointed. 
So I think its fair to say that the contractor was heavily involved in the need for an SE to be 
appointed, but whether this is viewed as the contractor asking for SE input, or the specialist, 
makes little difference.
The clarification about the work done in the dog-run and outbuilding is noted. 
The final response in June 2021 explained that Lloyds felt it was difficult for it to disagree 
with its experts findings about the cash settlement  but that it would arrange for a second 
opinion. Lloyds further final responses issued in July and August 2021 explained that 
following that second opinion being sought it was satisfied that the cash settlement had been 
correctly provided based on its limit of liability. So the June final response was an uphold, but I dont think its fair to say that Lloyds ever felt its cash settlement was incorrect. Or that 
its further final response(s) represented u-turns. I understand that Mr and Mrs W feel these 
decisions by Lloyds were flawed, generated by incorrect detail being given by the loss 
adjuster. But as they were final responses, they gave Mr and Mrs W the opportunity to 
complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service, which they did and which I am now issuing 
my final decision in respect of. And I have found that Lloyds was wrong about the settlement 
provided, that it was not sufficient.
In respect of the measurements I referenced, I see that in reply Mr W has explained what his 
specialist had put in their report, and how his contractor interpreted what was needed. But 
Im satisfied by what I said provisionally in this respect  my measurements were taken from 
the SEs drawings and his report confirmed the blockwork could be safely removed if done 
as suggested in the report. I used those measurements and I allowed a tolerance for going 
beyond the necessary area of work  similar to that Mr W explains his contractor allowed for 
based on the measurements he felt he was working too. And I did say the area likely 
affected in the upper floor was up to 2m from the wall (including the tolerance). It was only in 
the lower area where I said the area was less than that, at 1m. Both were based on the SE 
measurements. And I remain of the view its fair to rely on the SE report in this respect as 
the SE was reporting on how the work should be done. Im not persuaded to change the 
measurements I set out and relied upon provisionally. 
It is noted that most of the necessary decoration work was accounted for in the scope that 
generated the payment of circa £57,000. That the outstanding costs mostly relate to the 
structural work of removing and replacing blockwork. I also note that Mr W has said in reply 
that Lloyds agreed to pay for that structural work. I accept that Lloyds agreed for structural 
work to be done to remove and replace blockwork. The extent and cost of that was never 
agreed  as I said provisionally, Lloyds courted a risk in giving the agreement it did. And Ive 
had to think about what is fair and reasonable in light of that, given what work was done and 
what costs came into question. Im still of the view that it would be unfair and unreasonable 
for me to say Lloyds must pay for everything. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W have said that the floorplan for the kitchen and hallway did 
not change during their renovations and they had never intended to change the floor tiling. In 
light of that I can understand why they think it is unfair for me to say that a loss of match 
compensation should not be applied. But whether or not the floorplan for the areas in 
question was to change during the renovation  the renovation was extensive. Im not 
persuaded the floor tiling, as an example, but this stretches to the woodwork and other 
matching interior parts, would have stayed the same. Im also mindful though in this respect 
about the replacement kitchen  the need for which, along with taking up a larger area of 
tiles than that required to dig out the SEs recommended floor area, all turns on the 
underfloor heating issue.
Regarding the underfloor heating  Ive reviewed the detail Mr and Mrs W have sent. They 
reference the statement of their contractor  Lloyds considered this when it first raised 
concerns about the underfloor heating. It was provided after work had been done and Lloyds 
concern was that it wasnt supported by any other detail. Ive looked at the text message 
exchange between Mr W and the specialist from August 2021, regarding the specialist being 
aware of underfloor heating in the kitchen. I dont think the specialist does confirm there was 
underfloor heating. Mr W asked the specialist if he remembered a conversation about 
whether drilling through lower blocks in the utility would damage the sub-floor or underfloor 
heating in the kitchen. The specialist replied that any work they did in the lower section of the 
property would have been well below the sub-floor level in the kitchen. I appreciate that it 
was only following the SE report that work on the kitchen side of the wall was also required.I dont put much store in what Lloyds said about the presence of a radiator. I accept 
Mr and Mrs Ws view that this does not show that there was not underfloor heating.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W say they felt Lloyds had agreed to them doing work. Im also 
mindful that the claim to that point had been quite prolonged and I can understand that there 
was a real need for the reinstatement to progress at speed. But I think that in light of 
everything that had already occurred, forging ahead without evidence to show what was 
being done was warranted, even though Lloyds had not specifically asked for such, was not 
a reasonable thing for Mr and Mrs W to have done. I absolutely understand that they were in 
a difficult position and as Ive said, Lloyds also acted somewhat recklessly when giving the 
go-ahead as it did. But I remain of the view that there is a lack of any contemporaneous 
evidence of underfloor heating having been in place. Their contractors statement does not 
sufficiently overcome that and, for me, that means I cant say it would be fair and reasonable 
to make Lloyds pay any costs involved with removing and reinstating underfloor heating. 
Lloyds agreed to consider the electricity usage for fans at the property, and I think that with 
the family living there it makes sense to consider the power draw of the units when doing 
that. But I think the utility bills are still important. Not least because they will show the unit 
charge by the utility provider. In reviewing the bills Lloyds should bear in mind that 
Mr and Mrs W have said they and their family spent less time at the property after the leak 
and before they moved into alternative accommodation than they had done prior to the leak 
occurring. The parties may need to discuss this further and if Lloyds asks for further 
evidence or detail from Mr and Mrs W, they should assist with its reasonable requests.
I appreciate that it was difficult and uncomfortable living at the property before August 2019. 
But some discomfort will arise naturally following an incident that gives rise to a claim. Only if 
a property is uninhabitable, which may include it being unsafe to live in, does an insurer 
usually need to rehouse its policyholder. When Mr and Mrs Ws specialist became involved it 
was not initially stated that the home was unsafe to live in and that the family should move 
out. Rather an extraction unit was fitted to make conditions better in the shower room. And 
further testing followed. On 31 July 2019 it was noted that more contamination had been 
released into the air and it was following this that it was agreed the family should move out. 
I remain of the view that this was handled reasonably by Lloyds.
I note that Mr and Mrs W didnt think Lloyds enquiry about when work would finish was 
unreasonable. 
I appreciate that after May 2021 there was still a lot of work to do at Mr and Mrs Ws home, 
including a lot of work related to the insurance claim. But work done at their home after the 
appointment of their specialist in May 2019 was not restricted to work necessary to reinstate 
the home as a result of the insured damage. Rather the house was greatly extended and 
changed. Its reasonable to think, in my view, that the work as a whole took longer to 
complete than the period that would have been necessary just for the insured work to be 
done. I think Lloyds concerns about accommodation costs beyond May 2021 were fair and 
reasonable. Im not persuaded to make it pay anything more in this respect.
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ws response to my provisional decision, I find it hasnt 
changed my view on their complaint from that stated provisionally. As such my provisional 
findings, along with my comments here, are now the findings of this, my final decision. Putting things right
I require Lloyds to:
In line with my directions about the reasonable area of reinstatement, review the 
spreadsheets of costs which were previously used when determining and explaining the 
uplifted July 2020 payment, decide and show what it will now pay for the work Ive said it 
is liable for. That will not need to include VAT or any allowance to compensate for a 
theoretical loss of match. 
Apply interest* to any reinstatement work sum now due, from the date the spreadsheets 
were sent to it in spring 2021 until settlement is made.
upon proof being received from Mr and Mrs W showing that work, reasonably like that 
which has been paid for in those spreadsheets has been done, with VAT being due  
Pay Mr and Mrs W the VAT cost due on the sum it agreed to pay for that work.
upon proof being received from Mr and Mrs W showing that work, reasonably like that 
which made up any part of the previous £57,000 settlement has been done, with VAT 
being due  Pay Mr and Mrs W the VAT cost due for that work, up to its maximum 
liability in that respect for VAT of £11,400.
upon proof of electricity costs and usage being provided by Mr and Mrs W  Review 
electricity used at the property and taking into account the power draw of the vapour 
extraction units, d determine what power was used by those and what the cost of that 
was to Mr and Mrs W, paying that to them.
In respect of the electricity payment** due to Mr and Mrs W, add interest* from the date 
any extra costs were paid by them and until settlement is made.
Consider a claim under the policy for loss of oil, if Mr and Mrs W tell it they wish to make 
a claim in this respect.
upon proof of outlay being provided by Mr and Mrs W for the other financial loss items 
set out above  Consider that and make any payment fairly and reasonably due.
To any financial loss payment** due to Mr and Mrs W, add interest* from a date one 
week after the July 2020 settlement was paid to Mr and Mrs W, until settlement is made.
if the outbuilding and dog-run still exist  Reassess these to see if remediation is still 
required, if it is, what reasonably needs to be done. Then offer to do that work or, if 
Mr and Mrs W dont want it to do so, pay Mr and Mrs W what it will cost it to do the work.
if the outbuilding and dog-run dont exist anymore  Calculate what it would have cost it 
to do the work planned in 2019/2020, add interest* to that from the date the work was 
scoped for until settlement is made and pay that total to Mr and Mrs W.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
**Evidence should be provided by Mr and Mrs W within 30 days of the date we tell Lloyds 
theyve accepted my final decision (if it remains the same and they do). If they provide the 
evidence later, the interest* application will cease temporarily at the end of the 30 day period 
and begin being applied again when Lloyds receives the evidence, remaining until 
settlement is made.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman