DRN-1822137
The complaint
Mr C says PDL Finance Limited trading at the time as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three loans Mr Lender provided to Mr C between August 2014 and 
October 2014. Mr Cs borrowing history is set out on the table below as follows:
LoanDate Taken
OutDate Repaid Instalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 03/08/2014 29/08/2014 1 £300 £405
2 22/09/2014 30/09/2014 1 £250 £287.50
3 02/10/2014 16/01/2015 3 £1,000 £633.33
 
Mr C said Mr Lender should have realised from the number of times he had borrowed that 
his debt problems were getting worse. It should never have given the unaffordable loans.
In its final response letter to Mr C, Mr Lender said it would not uphold Mr Cs complaint. It 
said it couldn't ascertain how the loans issued did not meet its responsible lending criteria 
and in fact exceeded the required responsible lending standards. It offered Mr C a voucher 
as a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator didn't think it unfair for Mr Lender to have given Mr C loans 1 and 2, but she 
said she thought the complaint about loan 3 should be upheld. She said this because the 
repayment for loan 3 represented a significant proportion of Mr Cs declared income. As 
such she thought there was a significant risk that Mr C wouldn't be able to make the 
repayments on this loan, along with his other financial commitments.
Mr Lender disagreed with this view and the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about 
loan 3. I will explain why.
There doesnt seem to be any disagreement about loans 1 and 2. Its enough to say at this 
early stage in this relationship I think the checks Mr Lender carried out were more likely 
proportionate and I dont think they would have revealed that Mr C was having problems 
managing his money. So I cant say it was unfair to give Mr C these loans.
When Mr C borrowed loan 3 though, this time he told Mr Lender that his income was £1,500 
and his outgoings were £410 per month. The repayment of this loan was £633.33 for the 
highest repayment amount and represented a significant proportion of Mr Cs income without 
even taking into account his expenses. 
I think this significant repayment meant it was likely there was a high-risk Mr C wouldn't be able to sustainably meet his repayments. Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicator's view. 
It said just because the repayment represented a significant portion of Mr Cs income it did 
not mean Mr C would not be able to sustainably meet his monthly repayment. It also said the 
loan was made up of part original amount borrowed and part interest- that meant Mr Cs 
subsequent repayment were lower. Mr C still would have been left with around £456 taking 
into account his repayments. Mr Lender believed that its checks were proportionate, and
Mr C also had to responsibly borrow.
But, I agree with our adjudicator. When Mr Lender gave Mr C his third loan, the previous 
loan had been repaid only two days before loan 3 was taken out. Loan 3 was for four times 
the amount of loan 2 and Mr C had to find the repayments over a period of three months. I 
think  the loan repayments represented a significant portion of Mr Cs disposable income as 
well as representing a significant proportion of Mr Cs income taken by way of a high cost 
short term loan. The interest still should have been taken into account when Mr Lender gave 
Mr C this loan as this still needed to be repaid. I dont think Mr C was likely to be able to 
afford the repayment of this loan in a sustainable manner over the period the loan was taken 
out.
Ive also explained above that even if a loan may appear affordable on a pounds and pence 
basis it doesn't necessarily mean that a consumer can afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.
The regulations in place at the time provided guidance about what sustainable meant - the 
payments could be made without undue difficulties, on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments and without having to borrow to meet the repayments, over the life of the 
agreement, and out of income or savings.
On balance, I think there was likely a significant risk that Mr C would have to borrow again in 
order to meet his commitments. So, I think Mr Lender ought to have realised that it was 
unlikely Mr C would have been unable to sustainably meet his repayments for this loan. As it 
happened Mr C was unable to repay his second instalment on the contractual due date and 
the final repayment was also repaid late.
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
Mr Lender shouldn't have given Mr C loan 3. It should:
 
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loan 3;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Cs credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman