DRN-1615434
 
The complaint
Mr and Ms E say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Ms E took out a new mortgage loan with Halifax in 1995 and PPI was added to their 
account at the same time.
They paid a monthly amount for the policy, which was for Mr E. It wouldve paid a monthly 
benefit of £600 for up to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness or unemployment 
claim he made.
Mr and Ms E say they had no knowledge a PPI policy was in place. Mr E says he had cover 
under another policy, which he says paid out in 1998 when he was made redundant. He also 
has a copy of part of a Halifax personal financial report from January 1996 which says he 
and Ms E declined income protection and critical illness cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Ms Es complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Ms E 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Ms Es complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give will help them to understand why 
Ive reached this conclusion.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr and Ms E they had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. Its not entirely clear to me how this PPI was sold  neither Mr and Ms E nor 
Halifax has been able to say. But from the parts of the personal financial report Mr E has 
sent us, it seems Mr and Ms E had two meetings with Halifax  one on 14 November 1995 
when the new loan was discussed and the other at the beginning of January 1996, which 
was to discuss some things that were outstanding after the first meeting. 
From information Halifax has given us, the PPI was added to Mr and Ms Es account on 15 
December 1995, the same day their new loan was advanced. So I think its likely the PPI 
was sold on or after 14 November (and quite possibly in that first meeting) and before 15 
December. But Halifax doesnt have any paperwork from the time to show me what 
happened (which, given it was so long ago, I dont think is surprising). And Mr and Ms Es description of what happened isnt detailed, while the partial report they have must, I think, 
post-date the sale.
To uphold Mr and Ms Es complaint on this point, Id have to think its likely Halifax didnt give 
them a clear choice about the PPI and get their agreement to it. And Mr and Ms Es 
recollections on their own and without anything else to back them up arent enough for me 
fairly to say I think its likely. From what we know about how Halifax normally sold these 
policies, I think its more likely Halifax discussed Mr and Ms Es insurance needs with them 
and, at the time, they agreed to it, knowing they didnt have to.
Mr E has pointed out that in their second meeting with Halifax he and Ms E declined income 
protection and critical illness cover. But these products offer a different type of cover to PPI  
income protection is generally a long-term insurance contract that replaces lost income. It 
doesnt protect a loan such as the mortgage Mr and Ms E had protected by PPI. And critical 
illness pays a lump sum if a policyholder is diagnosed with a listed critical illness. In declining 
these products, Mr and Ms E werent declining PPI, so this isnt a reason for me to uphold Mr 
and Ms Es complaint on this point.
Halifax has treated this sale as if it recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms E. So it needed to 
make sure it was right for them. From what Mr and Ms E say of their circumstances at the 
time and from the policy terms Halifax says applied, I think it was. I say this because:
Mr E was eligible for the cover.  I dont think thered have been anything to stop Mr E 
claiming the full policy benefit if hed needed to  it seems he wasnt affected by any 
of the main restrictions and exclusions in the policy.
Although Mr E says he probably got good sick pay (he thinks six months full pay 
then six months half pay), the PPI wouldve paid out on top of it and, potentially, for 
longer than his full sick pay lasted. And while Mr and Ms E say they had some 
savings for use on a rainy day, having PPI meant these couldve been used for things 
other than paying the mortgage, if necessary. A mortgage is a significant financial 
commitment, secured on your home, which is at risk if you cant keep up with the 
repayments. So I think the PPI gave Mr and Ms E useful additional protection.
Mr E says he had another policy which paid out in 1998 when he was made 
redundant. But, understandably after so long, he hasnt been able to give us much 
detail about it  though it seems the benefit it paid was smaller than the benefit hed 
have got with this policy. Without clearer evidence about the terms and conditions of 
this other policy, I cant fairly and reasonably conclude that Mr E was over-insured. 
And so this also isnt a reason for upholding his complaint about this policy.
I dont know what, if anything, Halifax told Mr and Ms E about the cost of the PPI but 
I havent seen anything to make me think they couldnt afford it.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them, Halifax also had to give Mr and Ms E 
clear enough information about the PPI for them to decide if they wanted it. I dont know 
what steps Halifax took to do this  and its possible it didnt do everything as it shouldve. 
But I think its likely Mr and Ms E agreed to the PPI and I also think it was right for them. So 
I think clearer information would only have confirmed this to them and is unlikely to have 
made them change their minds.
I dont think Mr and Ms E have lost out because of anything Halifax may have done wrong, 
so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman