DRN-2348231
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE
handled her motor insurance policy, in particular with regard to an additional premium it 
requested.
What happened
This complaint has been brought to us by one of Mrs Ws relatives, but for ease of reading Ill
refer to all the points made as being from Mrs W.
Mrs Ws husband sadly passed away in June 2018. He had a motor insurance policy with
Aioi Nissay. Mrs W then took then took a policy, and the no claim discount, in her name in
August 2018.
Mrs W changed her car, and in October 2018 was told it would cost an additional £124.01 to
continue cover, that included a £12 admin fee. Mrs W managed to negotiate for the admin
fee to be waived, and it was agreed the remainder would be spread over her monthly
payments  costing £48.57 per month. Mrs Ws premium was previously £34.80.
Aioi Nissay then wrote to Mrs W in October 2018 to say payment of £112.01 had been
received. But Mrs W hadnt made the payment and her monthly payments hadnt been
adjusted, so she continued to pay a lower amount for her policy.
This continued until March 2019, when Aioi Nissay wrote to Mrs W to say her payments
would be increased to £64.31 per month. Mrs W wasnt happy with this, so she contacted
Aioi Nissay to find out what was happening.
Aioi Nissay looked into the matter and explained that as Mrs W was paying less than she
ought to  and because the remaining term was now shorter than in September 2019  the
payments would have to go up more. But, as this was down to Aioi Nissays mistake, they
said theyd write off some of the amount owed and simply take the £48.57 that had been
agreed to in September 2018.
Mrs W wasnt happy with that so brought the matter to our service to consider.
An investigator here looked into Mrs Ws case. He felt that Aioi Nissay had done enough to
put matters right, by waiving some of the premium, and only increasing it to the £48.57 that
Mrs W had agreed to.
Mrs W didnt think that was fair. She said it was a difficult time for her with her husband
having passed away. And that she budgets very carefully, being used to paying £34.80 per
month. So even though the increase isnt a huge amount, it means she had to cut back on
other expenses.
Mrs W also said she was relying on documentation to confirm things at the time and even
though shed have known she hadnt made the payment, she assumed that related to what 
was being waived.
I issued a provisional decision last month. I didnt consider there to be a dispute over what 
happened, on that I thought everyone was agreed. Aioi Nissay had accepted that it 
shouldve been more sensitive in its handling of the increase, and that sending a letter out of 
the blue  for the full amount owed  wasnt the right thing to do.
That meant it was down to me to consider whether waiving some of the premium was
sufficient. I found that while it was a reasonable gesture, Aioi Nissay ought to have gone 
further as it was clear to me that Mrs W was upset by this and she said she couldnt afford 
the higher amount.
I appreciated Mrs W had already had some benefit from having paid lower premiums for a
number of months. But she was also worried about being able to afford the payments in the
future and said shed been budgeting on the basis of the £34.80 she had been paying. So
even though Aioi Nissay was fair in only increasing the premium to the level previously
agreed, this still meant Mrs W had to pay an increase on what shed got used to.
In view of that, I felt it was reasonable to require Aioi Nissay to pay Mrs W £100 
compensation. Mrs W replied to say she accepted my provisional decision.
Aioi Nissay said it didnt accept my provisional decision. It felt the gesture already made was 
sufficient compensation and that as Mrs W had agreed to the increase in premium its 
unlikely she wouldve expected the premium to remain the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im of the same view as I was when I issued my provisional decision. I do 
appreciate Aioi Nissays position, and in other circumstances I mightve been able to agree 
that its gesture was sufficient. But, in this particular case, I felt it had caused additional worry 
to Mrs W during what was a difficult time for her.
Because of this, and for the reasons explained above, I still feel its reasonable to award 
compensation.
Putting things right
Aioi Nissay to pay Mrs W £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance 
Company of Europe SE to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman