DRN-2352601
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy about the settlement amount offered by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc (RSA) for her light fitting that suffered water damage under a buildings insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs Bs property suffered flood damage. Most of the required work has been carried out. 
But, the repair or replacement of a light-fitting remains outstanding. RSA carried out a visual 
inspection and said the light fitting was made of glass. It said it located similar style/quality 
lighting from between £100 and £700. As the light fitting has been considered beyond repair, 
RSA offered a cash settlement of £100 for Mrs B to find a like for like replacement.
Mrs B declined the offer and complained. She provided an experts opinion which said the 
light fitting was made of crystal  which is much more expensive  and will cost in the region 
of £3,500 plus VAT to replace on a like for like basis. A replacement made of glass has 
been quoted in the region of £2,000 to £2,500 plus VAT.
RSA said that for high value items, it would want to see some proof of purchase. But Mrs B 
said she bought the light fitting at a market and she paid with cash. So, there is no receipt, 
nor are there any bank statements showing the transaction. To resolve the complaint, RSA 
has said it will pay a cash settlement of £1,500  which is what Mrs B said she originally paid 
for the light fitting. Mrs B didnt accept this. And she brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said RSA had discounted an experts opinion 
along with having a difference of opinion about what material the light fitting is made from. 
And that the only way to be certain of the cost of a true like for like replacement is to 
ascertain whether the original is glass or crystal. Our investigator said RSA should either pay 
for an agreed independent expert or an analysis to decide what material the light fitting was 
made from. Once this was known RSA should settle the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. RSA didnt accept the view and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My provisional decisions
In my first provisional decision I took on board RSAs concerns about the replacement cost 
of the light and its concerns about the quality of the replacement. But I referred to RSAs 
policy terms and confirmed that the replacement cost now would be the right amount to pay 
based on the RSA policy wording. But to be entirely fair and to deal with RSAs potential 
concerns about the quality of the light fitting, whether it was crystal or not, and the cost of it, I 
gave RSA the opportunity to get an independent expert opinion. This should include 
confirming if the light is crystal or not and to get the independent expert to put a replacement 
value on the item. I said the parties would be bound by the expert valuation. To ensure this 
was fairly done I asked both sides to provide the evidence gathered so far and pass it to the 
expert so this could all be considered as part of their judgement. I felt this was a fair way to 
deal with the disparity between valuations. 
Even though the provisional decision was to deal with RSAs concerns about the cost and 
what the light was made from - Mrs B accepted it. Shed said all along that the light was 
crystal. Mrs B was willing to accept an independent experts valuation. She pointed out that 
shed provided everything asked of her by RSA, and that rather than finding independent 
experts RSA had just provided details of light sales. Mrs B said the length of time this was 
taking was having an impact on the health of her family and they were finding the delay 
distressing.  
Despite this giving RSA the opportunity to further its point about the replacement value of the 
light being too high  it didnt take any relevant action to try to prove the point. Instead it 
raised concerns about finding accurate independent valuations. Oddly it confirmed that it 
now accepted the light was made of crystal. It only provided details of light suppliers it said 
could offer similar lights. RSA said it didnt have and couldnt provide any independent expert 
details. RSA maintained £1,500 easily covered the cost and it could get it at a discounted 
price. It said Mrs Bs replacement example was for a stairwell light, with more crystals and 
wasnt a true replacement. 
As RSA hadnt complied with the details of my first provisional decision this meant a second 
provisional decision was required.
In my second provisional decision I said:
I accept the points Mrs B has made. I think they are all fair comment. I do take on board the 
point made by Mrs B about the time it has taken to get to this stage and how this has 
impacted on her and her family.
Mrs B was able to provide an independent expert to check the light and its value. But RSA, 
even though directed to do something similar by my provisional decision, has said it cant. 
RSA hasnt used the instruction of the first provisional decision to prove the light is worth 
£1,500 or less.
Instead RSA provided details to this service of some lights through various light sellers and 
suppliers. RSA does now accept the light is crystal even though originally RSA offered Mrs B 
£100 for a like for like replacement. RSA has tried to pick holes in Mrs Bs evidence rather 
than produce evidence to try and resolve the matter.
RSA said it cant find an independent expert to instruct to do a further valuation. So, the only 
valuation I have in evidence was provided by Mrs B.
I think RSA shouldve engaged with the opportunity to get a further valuation from an 
independent expert. It hasnt done so, and it doesnt really appear to have tried to work with 
Mrs B to find a resolution. Therefore, the only fair outcome is to accept the evidence 
presented by Mrs B and direct RSA to settle the light claim for the expert valuation to a total 
amount of £3,500.
Responses to my second provisional decision
  
RSA didnt respond to the second provisional decision directly. It told our business 
engagement team the valuations it had provided were the same level as Mrs Bs and the 
customers evidence was being favoured. RSA said it had made genuine attempts to find an 
expert, but this would only be someone who works in the sales industry for this product. RSA 
reiterated the product couldnt fit in Mrs Bs home.
Mrs B responded further too. Her main points were why is RSA now accepting the light is 
crystal when it didnt believe her or her expert previously. She said if it had carried out its job properly and more timely RSA wouldve found this out much sooner. She said this wouldve 
prevented a lot of their anxiety and stress and not made them feel they were telling untruths. 
Mrs B also said RSA hadnt provided any expert details to replace bespoke lighting. 
In terms of RSAs point about the light not being a true replacement Mrs B said this is 
incorrect. She said the light is a stairwell light, but it has adjustable wires that can be 
shortened or lengthened according to preference. Mrs B said RSA had evidence of this as at 
the very beginning of the claim. Mrs B said she sent RSA a picture proving this was the case 
and to prove the wires attached to the light that held the crystals were 3 metres long.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the responses I dont think RSA has added anything to show it has got the right 
approach to valuing the light. There was already evidence from Mrs B to suggest even if it 
was made of glass the valuation was still higher than RSAs offer. We also now know that 
RSA accept that the light is crystal. 
In terms of Mrs Bs response, I think the point about the light in particular is useful detail. It 
also once again confirms that Mrs B has been open to resolving her complaint and willing to 
allow experts to reassess the value to ensure the outcome was fair. 
Based on this I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
Putting things right
pay in total £3,500 for the replacement crystal light.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
pay in total £3,500 for the replacement crystal light.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman