DRN-2511883
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the level of assistance provided to her by Union Reiseversicherung 
AG (URV) under her travel insurance policy when she had an accident abroad. 
Mrs C also complains because URV hasnt paid her a disability benefit provided for under 
her policy. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
Mrs Cs complaint was first brought to us by her representative, Ms C. Ms C was later 
substituted with a different representative, Mr K. All references to Mrs Cs submissions to us 
include those made by both representatives. 
What happened
Mrs C held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV. 
Unfortunately, while on holiday abroad, Mrs C fell and injured her hip. She was admitted to a 
private hospital and underwent an operation the following day. Mrs C remained in hospital 
for just under six weeks until URV arranged for her repatriation to the UK. 
Mrs C complained to URV about the standard of care provided to her at the hospital abroad. 
Mrs C also said URV: 
didnt communicate with the hospital as it shouldve;
tried to use her medical history to invalidate her insurance cover; 
arranged for her repatriation in a manner that was clinically dangerous, and it did so 
for cost reasons;
didnt arrange for an ambulance transfer to the aircraft abroad, as it had agreed to 
do;
didnt make the hospital in the UK aware of her arrival following her repatriation;
didnt pay her a daily hospital benefit provided for under her policy;
didnt pay her a disability benefit provided for under her policy.
Finally, Mrs C said her daughter Ms C had suffered a financial loss as a result of having to 
remain abroad with her and had to buy more annual leave on her return to the UK. 
URV responded to Mrs Cs complaint and, as well as paying part of her claim for taxis and 
phone bills abroad, refunded her policy excess of £52.91. URV also paid Mrs C the 
maximum hospital benefit available under her policy of £800. In addition, URV paid Mrs C 
£179.52 compensation in recognition of the lack of communication from its emergency 
assistance team. 
Mrs C remained unhappy and brought her complaint to the attention of our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened and issued a number of detailed opinions, 
ultimately recommending that URV should pay Mrs C a total of £4,000 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shed experienced. 
URV accepted our investigators opinion but Mrs C didnt, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about everything Mrs C has been through and I have no doubt this will 
have been an extremely traumatic experience for her. I wish her well with her ongoing 
recovery. 
What Ill be considering
Ive read all the evidence and information provided by both Mrs C and URV, but I wont be 
addressing every complaint point that has been made  nor am I obliged to. Instead, I intend 
to address what I think are the key outstanding issues and reach an overall decision on what 
I think would be a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances. 
URV has confirmed that all Mrs Cs medical bills abroad have now been paid, and Mrs C has 
been paid the maximum hospital benefit which is provided for under her policy. The 
remaining elements of Mrs Cs claim (other than the disability benefit payment) dont appear 
to be in dispute, so I dont intend to address any of these issues. 
I understand Ms C says she experienced financial losses and/or distress and inconvenience 
as a result of URVs handling of this claim. However, Ms C wasnt a customer of URV so her 
losses and/or distress and inconvenience (including her distress at any comments made to 
her during any telephone calls with URV) arent something which I can take into account 
when making an award in this case. 
Mrs C has referred to other complaints that were brought to our service about URV. I wont 
be commenting on other policyholders complaints nor will I be taking these other complaints 
into account when making a final decision about Mrs Cs case. My remit in reaching this final 
decision is limited to considering whether I think URV acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances of Mrs Cs individual case and the facts of and findings made in other 
complaints arent relevant to this. 
Mrs C has also referred to the involvement of the General Medical Council (GMC) in her 
case, as well as in other complaints. The GMC can refer a doctor to a tribunal hearing if it 
feels there has been a serious failure by that doctor to meet its professional standards. 
Whether or not a doctor is fit to practice or has breached professional standards isnt 
something that I can comment on, and the existence of any GMC proceedings isnt 
something which Ive attached any weight to when making my decision about URVs actions 
as the insurer in Mrs Cs case.  
We share information about complaints with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) where 
we consider it appropriate to do so. We wouldnt ordinarily share information about the 
actions of insurers with the police. If Mrs C wishes to contact the FCA and/or the police directly with her concerns about URV, then its open to her to do so. 
URVs responsibilities towards Mrs C
Longstanding industry rules set out by the FCA (the Insurance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS) 8.1.1R) say an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate    
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim
Principles for Businesses, which URV must follow, are set out in the FCAs Handbook. 
These include:
Principle 2  a firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence
Principle 6  a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly
Principle 8  a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between a customer and another client. 
The FCAs Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of 
Customers says a firm should act fairly and promptly when handling claims, meeting any 
reasonable consumer expectations that it may have created with regard to the outcomes or 
how the process would be handled. 
Ive taken these rules and guidance into account when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint. Ive also taken into account the terms 
and conditions of Mrs Cs insurance policy with URV, which set out URVs obligations to her 
in the event of a medical emergency abroad. 
Mrs Cs policy says URV will pay for any customary and reasonable fees or charges for 
necessary and emergency treatment, to be paid outside your home country. In addition, 
URV will pay for extra travel, accommodation and repatriation costs that are deemed 
medically necessary in the event of the policyholder falling ill abroad. 
Page 15 of the policy excludes the following:
the cost of early repatriation when medical treatment of a standard acceptable by our 
medical director is available locally. 
Also, at page 15, Mrs Cs policy says:
BE AWARE! We reserve the right to repatriate you immediately for treatment in 
your home country when this is deemed to be preferable regardless of your original 
travel plans. All medical decisions are at the discretion of our medical director
No cover is provided under this section for: 
any costs where you are an inpatient or it is a repatriation claim and our 24-
hour assistance servicehave not been notified or has not agreed the costs, 
we reserve the right to decline associated costs.services or treatment received by youOR any treatment received by you 
after the date that in the opinion of our Emergency Assistance Facilities, in 
consultation with your treating doctor, you can return home or which can 
reasonably wait until you return to your home country.
URV says the remit of this service is to focus only on the application of the contract and the 
service it provided, and not on the clinical advice which URV relied upon in Mrs Cs case. 
However, the policy provisions which Ive outlined above demonstrate that URVs 
responsibilities under its contract with Mrs C included making important medical decisions 
about medical treatment and repatriation. Therefore, Im satisfied that my remit includes 
weighing up the medical information available to me to decide whether I think URVs 
decisions about Mrs Cs care and/or repatriation were fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and whether these decisions were made and communicated to Mrs C in a 
timely manner.   
The standard of care at the hospital abroad
The standard of care and/or medical treatment available abroad can vary significantly and 
can sometimes be to a different standard than that which is available on the NHS  
particularly with regard to the provision of nursing care by a hospital. This can impact upon 
the policyholder as an unfortunate consequence of suffering an injury abroad, but it isnt 
something which is within an insurers control. Mrs Cs policy with URV doesnt provide for 
URV to pay for or supply additional nursing care to a policyholder. 
I understand there was an incident when the hospital didnt have enough blood of a 
particular type available for Mrs C after her operation and the hospital had to seek an 
emergency blood donor. I can appreciate this would have been both worrying and upsetting 
but this isnt something which I can hold URV responsible for  URV has no control over the 
conditions and/or facilities available in hospitals abroad.  
If a policyholder raises concerns about the standard of care available at a particular medical 
facility  as Mrs C did here at certain points  then Id expect an insurer to give reasonable 
consideration to these concerns and, if appropriate, to explore whether an alternative 
medical facility is available which might be better suited to the policyholders medical needs. 
I think URV could have done more to communicate with the hospital here about Mrs Cs 
concerns about her dietary requirements and explore whether these issues could be 
resolved. 
I understand Mrs C feels URV didnt move her to a different facility for cost reasons, but Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that the hospital treating Mrs C wasnt equipped to meet her 
medical needs  or that there was an alternative medical facility at her destination which 
would have been more suitable for her. 
I understand Mrs C was made aware that URV owed money to the hospital for treatment 
provided to other patients but, based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied this didnt 
delay the progress of Mrs Cs medical treatment. And, theres no evidence upon which I 
could fairly conclude that the hospital provided Mrs C with any lower standard of care that it 
would usually have provided because of what Mrs C was told about URVs outstanding 
debts to it. 
URVs communications with the hospital
Mrs C says URV didnt contact the hospital for weeks, and that URV was receiving information from the hospital daily but telling her it hadnt heard anything. Mrs C also says 
URV didnt contact her treating doctor as shed asked it to. 
Based on the call notes and call recordings Ive been provided with, Im satisfied URV spoke 
to and corresponded with the hospital on a relatively regular basis during the initial stages of 
the claim. URVs call notes also show it did speak to Mrs Cs treating doctor about the 
repatriation plan on at least one occasion.  
I havent seen any evidence to suggest URV was receiving daily updates from the hospital 
which it delayed in actioning. 
Overall, Im satisfied that generally URV communicated with the hospital in the manner 
which Id expect  but I think it may have been helpful if it had sought more clarity around 
Mrs Cs condition and prognosis when her condition deteriorated during her stay in hospital. 
URVs investigations into Mrs Cs medical history 
An insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries into the circumstances surrounding a 
policyholders claim before confirming cover. In situations such as this, this would generally 
include asking for a policyholders previous medical history from their GP. Page 27 of the 
terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy says that URV can obtain a policyholders medical 
records for the purpose of dealing with a medical claim. 
If a policyholder hasnt declared (has misrepresented) a previous medical condition when 
buying an insurance policy then this can, in certain situations, mean they have no cover or 
limited cover available under their travel insurance policy. 
An insurers remedies in the event of misrepresentation of a previous medical condition are 
set out in law and its not unreasonable for an insurer to look into whether a 
misrepresentation has occurred before confirming that cover is valid. 
Ive looked at URVs claims notes and I dont think its correct to say it tried to pressurise Mrs 
C to accept that her claim wasnt covered because of her medical history. Mrs Cs medical 
history showed shed suffered from a certain medical condition in the past. URV said this 
medical condition hadnt been declared to it, so it needed to confirm whether it would have 
offered cover to Mrs C regardless. I understand Mrs C disputes certain issues surrounding 
this medical condition, but I think URV was entitled to look into it. 
Cover was confirmed in this case eight days after Mrs C was originally admitted to hospital. I 
dont think there were any unnecessary or excessive delays on the part of URV in confirming 
cover, particularly when the medical records which it had asked for had only been received 
two days prior. 
Mrs Cs repatriation 
Ive considered all URVs notes, call recordings and the medical reports which Ive been 
provided with. Its not for me to reach a conclusion about what I think was the best course of 
action for Mrs C medically, or to substitute expert medical opinion with my own. Instead, Ive 
weighed up the evidence available to decide whether I think URV acted fairly and reasonably 
in the circumstances by repatriating Mrs C when, and in the manner, that it did. 
The timescale or the manner of repatriation of other patients in the same hospital isnt 
something thats relevant to the outcome of Mrs Cs complaint. As Ive already explained, my 
decision is based on the individual circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint only.I think its clear from the information Ive seen that the earliest Mrs C would have been fit to 
fly was ten days after her operation. I note that, before this date had been reached, Mrs C 
attempted to discharge herself against medical advice as Ms C felt she could provide better 
care for her at her hotel, but Mrs C was persuaded against doing this. 
On the tenth day after Mrs Cs operation, swelling, pain and tenderness was noted around 
her surgical wound and in the post-operative area and the application of an abduction brace 
was recommended. Two days later, URVs notes record that Mrs C was awaiting the brace 
before she could be moved, as she was unable to bear weight. A further day later, Ms C told 
URV that Mrs Cs treating doctor was advising a stretcher repatriation. URV noted it wouldnt 
consider repatriation until Mrs C could sit for 90 minutes as it didnt think a stretcher 
repatriation was appropriate due to Mrs Cs medical presentation. 
However, I havent been provided with any explanation from URVs medical staff as to why 
this was the case. Ive listened to a number of telephone calls between Ms C and one of 
URVs doctors and I dont think these contain a persuasive explanation as to why a stretcher 
repatriation wasnt appropriate either. URVs doctor said that 99% of people with the injury 
Mrs C had could return to the UK seated on a scheduled flight and that this mode of 
transport would reduce discomfort and was much safer than an air ambulance. But the 
statistics quoted dont demonstrate why a stretcher repatriation wasnt appropriate for Mrs 
Cs individual case and I havent seen any evidence to support URVs doctors contentions 
that an air ambulance would have been an unsafe method of transportation for Mrs C.
A medical report from Mrs Cs treating doctor on 30 July 2018 said:
Patient is fit to fly on stretcher and with escort nurse.
So, from this point, Id expect URV to have started to explore repatriation options for Mrs C.
URVs notes indicate it did look into repatriating Mrs C by stretcher, and although it thought 
that arranging this could usually take some time, there seems to have been a flight available 
on 8 August 2018. However, URV failed to take any steps to book this for Mrs C. Around the 
same time, URV was told by the treating doctor that Mrs Cs hip was broken, she only had a 
seating tolerance of 15 minutes and that a stretcher repatriation was recommended. 
A medical report from 18 August 2018 again set out the following recommendations:
Patient is fit to fly on stretcher with a medical escort
According to URVs notes on 18 August 2018, Mrs Cs treating doctor said a fit to fly 
certificate would be issued without the need for a stretcher, but I havent been provided with 
a recording of that telephone conversation or any evidence that such a fit to fly certificate 
was in fact issued. 
Mrs C was repatriated by URV on the same day with a medical escort  but without a 
stretcher. 
Overall, Im satisfied based on the medical evidence available that it would have been 
reasonable for URV to arrange a stretcher repatriation as was repeatedly recommended by 
Mrs Cs treating doctor. Ive seen no evidence to support URVs notes that this 
recommendation subsequently changed. 
I also dont think URV progressed Mrs Cs repatriation as quickly as it should have. Mrs C 
was certified as fit to fly from 30 July 2018, but she didnt return to the UK until two and a half 
weeks later. I understand URV needed to arrange escort availability and Mrs C initially wasnt in agreement with the repatriation route proposed by URV, but URV didnt begin to 
make arrangements of any sort until 9 August 2018, which was well over a week after Mrs C 
was certified as being fit to fly. 
Mrs C feels URV chose to ignore medical advice in order to save money, and it knew any 
compensation award made by this service would amount to less than the cost of a stretcher 
repatriation. I understand Mrs C feels very strongly about this but theres no evidence to 
suggest that cost was a factor in URVs decision making, so I cant fairly make a finding to 
the contrary. 
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about URVs failure to arrange an airside ambulance 
transfer for her abroad. Ive listened to a number of telephone calls between Ms C and URV 
when the matter was discussed. URV initially said it would look into the feasibility of 
arranging this. During a second call, URV said different arrangements had been made but it 
would be up to the medical escort to advise what was needed and if the escort felt airside 
transfers were needed URV could see if this was possible. 
I dont think its fair to say URV promised thered be airside transfers in place for Mrs C. And 
URVs notes seem to suggest that the medical escort was happy for the existing transfer 
arrangements to remain in place without the need for an airside ambulance. However, I do 
think URV could have communicated more clearly and effectively about the arrangements 
for Mrs C to be transferred to the airport abroad, particularly considering the (undated) 
medical questionnaire which was presumably completed by Mrs Cs treating doctors saying 
she should be directly discharged to her flight. 
I understand, on Mrs Cs arrival back to the UK, the hospital she presented at was unaware 
of her arrival. URV had warned Ms C on a number of occasions that Mrs C was likely to 
need to be admitted via the accident and emergency department. I can see URV made at 
least two unsuccessful attempts to let the hospital it was planning to transfer Mrs C to know 
of her arrival. I can appreciate it will have caused Mrs C further upset to reach a hospital in 
the UK who had no knowledge of her arrival, but I cant fairly say URV should have done 
anything more.
Disability Benefit
Policy B, Section 7 of Mrs Cs insurance policy with URV provides for the payment of a fixed 
benefit in the event of the following:
your accidental bodily injury whilst on your trip that, independently of any other 
cause, results in your:  
permanent and total disablement from engaging in paid employments or paid 
occupations of any and every kind all occurring within 12 months of the event 
happening*
*Where you are not in paid employments or occupations, this shall be defined as all 
your usual activities, pastimes and pursuits of any and every kind
I understand Mrs C had to have a number of operations on her return to the UK and has told 
us both her ability to work and her pursuit of hobbies has been severely impacted by her 
accident abroad. 
However, as our investigator has explained, an insurer would require medical evidence 
confirming that a policyholder meets the policy definition of permanent and total disablement 
before paying a benefit such as this. Its for a policyholder to demonstrate they have a valid claim under the policy, and its not unreasonable to expect a policyholder to provide 
professional medical evidence in support of their claim. I wouldnt expect an insurer to pay 
such a policy benefit based solely on a policyholders description of their condition. 
If Mrs C wishes to make a claim for disability benefit under her policy, then shell need to 
present a claim to URV to consider and provide any reasonable medical evidence in support 
of her claim that URV asks for. If Mrs C is unhappy with the outcome of any such claim then 
she has the right to bring a new complaint to URV and, if the matter remains unresolved, to 
this service. 
Compensation 
Under the policy held with URV, Mrs C is the sole person insured. This means that only Mrs 
C is an eligible complainant under our rules. Therefore, I can only ask URV to pay 
compensation to Mrs C. 
Ive thought very carefully about the level of compensation which I think is appropriate in this 
case. I think there are a number of things URV could have done differently regarding Mrs Cs 
concerns about the hospital she was being treated in, as well as in its communications with 
the hospital at various points and in its communications about the airside ambulance. 
I also think there was an unreasonable delay by URV in arranging Mrs Cs repatriation which 
meant she was in hospital abroad for longer than she needed to be. When URV did arrange 
for Mrs Cs repatriation, I dont think it was reasonable for it to do so in the manner in which it 
did. 
All these issues had an impact on Mrs C, and I think she experienced distress, 
inconvenience, pain and suffering because of how URV handled her claim. I think the impact 
on Mrs C warrants compensation in the category which this service would consider severe.
Overall, I think a payment of a total of £4,000 compensation (which includes the £179.52 
already paid by URV) would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Mrs C says she lost earnings because of what happened. We wouldnt usually 
ask a business to reimburse a consumer for loss of earning at their hourly or daily rate of 
pay, but Ive taken Mrs Cs loss of earnings during the delay caused by URV into account 
when making an overall award of compensation. Any loss of earnings beyond this is, I think, 
an unfortunate consequence of Mrs Cs accident rather than as a result of URVs handling of 
the claim. 
Putting things right
Union Reiseversicherung AG needs to put things right by paying Mrs C a total of £4,000 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. This includes the sum of 
£179.52 which Union Reiseversicherung AG has already paid. 
Union Reiseversicherung AG must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple. 
My final decisionIm upholding Mrs Cs complaint about Union Reiseversicherung AG in part and I direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman