DRN-3722041
The complaint
Ms Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt allow her to take the share alternative 
following an enhanced scrip dividend announcement. She says HSBC gave her wrong 
information which led her to believe she would receive the scrip dividend.
She wants compensation for her financial loss  she says she would have sold her shares 
had she known she couldnt elect to receive the scrip dividend.
What happened
Ms Y has an execution only share dealing account with HSBC and has a holding of shares, 
which Ill refer to as H. In October 2021, H announced an enhanced scrip dividend payable 
in December 2021. Ms Y complained to HSBC when she didnt receive the enhanced scrip. 
It told her that, because of the nature of H, all dividends would be received in cash, and it 
directed her to its terms and conditions.
In March 2022, H announced another enhanced scrip dividend. Having read the terms of the 
enhanced scrip dividend, Ms Y thought she might be able to elect to take the scrip on this 
occasion and she phoned HSBC to check. HSBC told her shed already elected to receive 
scrip dividends, so that it was shed received. But, when the dividend was paid in May 2022, 
Ms Y received cash.
When she complained, HSBC apologised that shed been given wrong information during 
her phone call. It offered to pay her £150 by way of an apology.
Our investigator thought HSBCs offer didnt fully reflect the impact of its error. He 
recommended HSBC pay Ms Y £300 in total. He couldnt conclude Ms Y would have acted 
differently if shed been given the correct information, so didnt think HSBC needed to 
compensate her for the financial loss she said shed incurred.
HSBC agreed to the increased compensation payment.
Ms Y didnt agree. She said, in summary, that she had lost the scrip dividend which was 
worth around 10 times more than the cash she received. And that she lost the opportunity to 
sell her shares.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for the following reasons:
The key features of HSBCs execution only account include a section titled, How will 
dividends be paid?. Within that section it says:
All dividends generated from investment into new Real Estate Investment Trusts will be paid 
in cash, even if a scrip dividend has been elected previously.
I find this applied to Ms Ys holding of H shares. And I find this term was brought to Ms Ys 
attention when she complained about not receiving the scrip dividend in December 2021. 
Overall, I think it was made reasonably clear that Ms Y wouldnt receive the scrip dividend on 
her holding of H shares.
For the same reason, when H announced another enhanced scrip dividend in March 2022, 
I find Ms Y was only eligible under HSBCs terms to receive the cash dividend.
But Ms Y phoned HSBC to check. HSBC told her that her account was already set up to 
receive scrip dividends, that she didnt need to make a new election, and that she would 
definitely receive the scrip alternative. Ms Y questioned this as she wanted to make sure it 
was right, bearing in mind the enhanced scrip dividend was worth around ten times more 
than the cash dividend. HSBC repeated that she would receive the scrip dividend.
I find Ms Y was given the wrong information during the phone call. Ive thought about this 
carefully. Whilst HSBC gave her the wrong information, it doesnt follow that HSBC needs to 
compensate Ms Y for the scrip dividend it said she would receive. Thats because Ms Y 
couldnt receive the enhanced scrip dividend under the agreed terms of her account. Clearly 
HSBC raised Ms Ys expectations that she would receive the scrip dividend, but I cant order 
it to compensate her for something that wasnt available to her.
Ms Y says that, if shed known she couldnt receive the scrip dividend, she would have sold 
her holding of H shares. But Im not persuaded that, if HSBC had given her the correct 
information during her phone call, that she would have sold her shares. I say that because 
she didnt sell her shares after she didnt receive the scrip dividend in December and when 
she was told in January that the terms and conditions didnt allow the receipt of scrip 
dividends for H shares.
I am not unsympathetic to the situation in which Ms Y found herself. The scrip dividend was 
worth considerably more than the cash dividend and it will have been very disappointing for 
Ms Y not to have received it after shed been told during her phone call that she definitely 
would. I agree with the investigator that £300 fairly reflects the distress she was caused by 
being given the wrong information.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Ms Y £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman