DRN-1393512
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) registered a default against him which 
caused him distress and adversely affected his studies. It also prevented him from taking out 
finance.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr F and Santander, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
In February 2016 Santander registered a default against Mr Fs account which was then 
showing a debit balance. The balance was made up of fees and charges but following 
updated guidance released by the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) in July 2016, 
Santander carried out a review of Mr Fs account. Having done so they wrote off the full 
amount owed, removed the default and offered to pay Mr F £50 in compensation for his 
trouble and upset.
Mr F was unhappy with Santanders final response and so brought the complaint to this 
service and our investigator looked into it. Santander increased their offer of compensation 
to £100 which Mr F initially accepted, but then changed his mind. The investigator however 
thought that Santander had done enough to put matters right.
Mr F didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate. 
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Santander acted fairly 
and reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I 
have to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats 
what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that Santander has done anything wrong. 
Ill explain why.
Santander wrote to Mr F about his account asking him to contact them so that they could 
discuss the outstanding balance and the charges which were accruing. I can see they did 
this on multiple occasions between July 2015 and January 2016, but Mr F didnt respond. 
They also notified him that a default would be registered in the absence of a reply. Mr Fs account had actually become overdrawn because of charges being applied and 
putting him into an unarranged overdraft position. Those charges were however applied in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account, which Mr F agreed to when he had 
opened it. So, at that time I cant say Santander was acting unfairly and I think it didnt do 
anything wrong in registering the default, as that was prior to Santander receiving the 
guidance from the ICO. Further, Mr F did not respond to Santanders requests to discuss 
matters. The position might have been very different had he done that.
I acknowledge that Mr F also received correspondence from debt collectors but that was 
only fair in the circumstances since Mr F owed Santander money, and he had chosen not to 
respond to Santander. I also understand that Mr F feels this has also affected his studies, 
but there is no evidence of that and nor is there any evidence that the reason he was 
declined finance and unable to rent a car, was solely because of Santander registering this 
default.
Following the ICOs guidance being released, Santander acted fairly because it then wrote 
off the debt that was otherwise due and it removed the default. Santander has accepted that 
in the light of the ICOs guidance it ought not to have registered the default and feels it would 
be fair to provide compensation to Mr F. And so it offered Mr F a further £50 on top of the 
£50 it had already paid him.
Putting things right
Ive given further thought as to whether this is sufficient and in so doing Ive considered the 
level of awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases. Ive taken into 
account, in the light of my findings above, the impact Mr F has described it had upon him.
Putting all of this into the balance I think what Santander has paid and offered is fair and 
reasonable. And I think it is enough to put matters right. So, although Mr F will probably be 
disappointed with my decision, I cant say Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Santander has already paid £50 to settle this complaint and also made an offer to pay a 
further £50, and this is fair and reasonable. So my final decision is that Santander should 
pay Mr F a further £50, bringing the total compensation to £100.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman