DRN-1188052
The complaint
Ms H complains that Nationwide Building Society mishandled her mortgage application.
What happened
Ms H approached Nationwide in early March 2019 where she submitted a joint mortgage 
application with her mother. This was in order to replace her father on an existing mortgage 
and borrow money to help pay her mothers divorce settlement. But the joint application was 
declined due to Ms Hs mothers credit rating. 
Ms H later decided to apply for a mortgage on her own and started a new application on 
23 March 2019. She says she told the agent that she had previously applied for an internal 
re-mortgage which was declined due to her mothers credit rating. The agent said they could 
see this on file and took her through a decision in principle (DIP).
The Nationwide agent contacted Ms H a couple of days later to say that the DIP had been 
accepted and that they were able to continue with the application, which now required her to 
complete a full mortgage application which would be reviewed by the underwriters. 
A telephone application took place on 20 April 2019 with another agent to complete the full 
mortgage application. But it was subsequently declined in June 2019 after being reviewed by 
the underwriters, due to the fact that Ms Hs mother would still be residing in the property 
and could be financially dependent on her. 
Ms H complained because she says the Nationwide agents she spoke to knew about the 
third-party association with her mother and what her planned living arrangements would be. 
So she says they ought to have been aware of the lending criteria and that the application 
would not be accepted. Ms H was also unhappy that it took Nationwide around three months 
to reach this decision, which ought to have been clear from the outset based on their lending 
criteria. 
Nationwide said that the application was accepted at DIP stage because the agent dealing 
with the application did not know the significance of Ms Hs mother living in the property. 
They said that the underwriters wouldnt have used any of the information provided at the 
DIP as they required the full mortgage application and associated documentation to be 
submitted before they could review and confirm their lending decision. Nationwide say that 
when it was confirmed that Ms Hs mother would be residing in the property, the application 
was consequently declined. They also did not think they had delayed the application or their 
lending decision. But they did concede that certain elements of their service could have been 
better, so they awarded £100 compensation.
Unhappy with this, Ms H referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint because he thought it was clear that the DIP was not a full application and that 
it was subject to change upon further review by the underwriters. He wasnt persuaded that 
the front-line advisors ought to have known whether Ms Hs living arrangements would result 
in the application being declined as they were not underwriters. And he didnt think 
Nationwide had unreasonably delayed the application process.Ms H disagreed. She says she did not receive the DIP in writing  only verbally. She also 
maintains that the front-line advisors ought to have had knowledge of the lending criteria so 
she had the opportunity to withdraw it before it was inevitably declined. As a result, the 
matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
I appreciate that Ms H may not have received the DIP in writing, as she says she was only 
told over the phone that it was accepted. But even still, I think she ought to have known that 
it did not entail a full assessment of her circumstances against Nationwides lending criteria, 
and that it could still subsequently be declined upon further review after submitting a full 
mortgage application. Otherwise there would be no need for any further application or 
documentation to be submitted.
A DIP is only an indication of whether and what the bank may be prepared to lend  subject 
to further checks. It should not be to be taken as a formal offer or full agreement from the 
bank that the application has been accepted, and I dont think Nationwide have misled Ms H 
in this respect or have done anything to lead her to believe that this was the case. 
Ms H says that Nationwides front-line staff  such as the agents she spoke to when she 
initially made the application  should have known that her application would be declined as 
they were aware of her planned living arrangements with her mother and the adverse 
financial association. But it is the role of the underwriter to review the application and 
documentation alongside the banks lending criteria, and it is the underwriter who will make 
the decision on whether to lend or not. The front-line staff are not underwriters, and so are 
not expected to know what the final decision of the underwriters will be. So even though the 
agents may have known of Ms Hs planned living arrangements, it was not their place to 
assume the role of the underwriter to say whether this will be deemed too much of a risk for 
the lender to take on. So I cant say Nationwide have acted unfairly by failing to tell Ms H at 
the DIP stage what an underwriter may or may not subsequently decide. 
In terms of the time it took for a decision to be made, Nationwide say they needed further 
information/documentation from Ms H before they could make a decision, but Ms H says she 
had already provided everything they needed form the outset. I dont think it necessarily took 
three months for Nationwide to make a decision as has been alleged, as it wasnt until 
20 April 2019 that Ms H had her telephone mortgage application due to her and Nationwides 
availability. Although I appreciate it would have been frustrating to have to wait for a 
decision, especially given the circumstances of her mother's divorce. But unfortunately, 
these things can take time. 
However, even if I were to accept that there were avoidable delays, Nationwide have already 
paid £100 compensation. And I wouldnt ask them to increase this amount as I think it is a 
proportionate reflection of the distress and inconvenience that waiting from 20 April to June 
2019 would have likely caused in any event.
So, it follows that I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman