DRN-4442504
The complaint
Miss M and Mr B think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) hasnt fairly settled a 
claim they made for damage to their bathroom. 
What happened
In early 2023 Miss M and Mr B were in the process of having their bathroom renovated. 
Their builder discovered water damage in the room as he was stripping it out, and Mr B told 
us this added about £3,600 to the cost of renovating the room. He and Miss M continued 
with the work as their builder was only available for a short period of time.
A few days later Miss M and Mr B decided to make a claim for the damage on their home 
insurance policy. Initially RSA said it wouldnt meet the claim, but after Miss M and Mr B 
complained it reviewed its position and said it would contribute towards the cost of repairs. 
RSA said it wouldnt pay for full reinstatement of the room as it was in the process of being 
renovated when the damage was discovered. RSA paid £4,150 (minus the policy excess of 
£350) towards the repairs and an additional £200 for the way it handled the claim, as it did 
agree it had refused the claim too soon.
Miss M and Mr B didnt think that was enough, but RSA hasnt agreed to pay any more on 
the claim. They asked us to review their complaint. Our investigator said, in summary, that 
she thought RSA had done enough. She noted that the builder had stripped the room before 
the insurers agent could fully inspect the damage, and that RSA had given Miss M and Mr B 
the benefit of the doubt that there had been damage caused by a leak. She also noted that 
RSA had based settlement upon costs submitted by Miss M and Mr B, and thought this was 
fair. She also pointed out that as there was no remaining evidence that any part of the 
bathroom suite had been damaged by the leak, RSA had fairly refused to meet this part of 
the claim.
Miss M and Mr B say RSA should be paying for substantially more repairs than they are, as 
the bathroom/suite was significantly damaged when the builder exposed and cleared the 
water damage.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint as Im persuaded RSA has remedied its earlier 
mistakes fairly. Ill explain why.
RSA already acknowledged that it initially refused Miss M and Mr Bs claim in error. So Im 
not going to look at that in detail. Instead Ill concentrate on whether the settlement and 
compensation amounts are fair.
Claim settlement amount.
The policy that Miss M and Mr B hold contains two sections relevant to the settlement of this 
complaint. These are, in summary, that Miss M and Mr B are required to keep hold of any 
damaged items for inspection by RSAs agent, and that if a cash settlement is requested by 
a customer, RSA can limit this to paying the costs it would have incurred if it had 
commissioned the work itself.
Much of the damaged material had already been removed from site when RSAs agent 
attended  although there were signs of damage outside the bathroom in question. The 
bathroom suite had been removed entirely, and wasnt available for inspection.
Mr B says the bathroom couldnt have been repaired without removing the entire contents 
and that was impossible without wrecking what was already there. Hes provided a photo of 
a bath full of plaster and rubble to support this. He and Miss M believe this means RSA 
should pay more towards the full restoration of the bathroom.
Im not persuaded by that argument. Miss M and Mr B told us they were already in the 
process of stripping the bathroom when the damage was discovered. Theres no mention 
that the builder was carefully removing items for re-instatement, and indeed the photo I saw 
suggests the opposite as it appears the bath was being used as temporary storage for 
debris. 
The purpose of insurance is to return a customer to the position they were in before the 
damage occurred. In this complaint this seems to be that, but for the leak, Miss M and Mr B 
would have had a sound  albeit stripped  bathroom, ready for refurbishment. Thats the 
position RSA has returned them to by paying for the repair work Miss M and Mr B had done 
to remedy the water damage. I think thats a fair resolution to their complaint.
Turning to the amount paid, I think this is also fair. Its based upon the actual cost Miss M 
and Mr B bore, plus some contributions to redecoration etc. Im satisfied that payment of 
£4,150 less any excess is a reasonable amount, especially as Miss M and Mr B estimated 
that the additional work cost £3,600. 
Compensation
RSA paid £200 to make up for the fact that it mistakenly delayed settlement of this claim. I 
appreciate that Miss M and Mr B had to deal with that, and it has caused some 
inconvenience. But the repairs werent delayed so they havent been without a bathroom for 
longer than they expected. I say that because the room was already out of commission when 
the damage was discovered and the builder included the repair work in the renovation he'd 
already started. Taking everything into account Im satisfied the payment fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused by RSAs mistake. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint because Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited has already resolved the complaint fairly.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman