DRN-3378564
The complaint
Miss K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is incorrectly holding her liable for a Bounce Back 
Loan. 
What happened
Miss K held a student account with Bank of Scotland, trading under the Halifax brand, which 
is part of the Lloyds Banking Group.
Lloyds received an application in Miss Ks name for a new business account in June 2020, 
which it approved. These account details were then used to complete a Bounce Back Loan 
application, which was also approved. A loan of £40,000 was drawn down into the business 
account on 10 June.
Over the month that followed, all of the loan funds were spent. Two card payments totalling 
£120 were made on 17 and 18 June. A total of £39,100 was transferred to two individual 
payees over the weeks that followed, leaving a balance of £780 on 10 July. That amount 
was then withdrawn in cash, in two withdrawals made on 13 and 14 July.
Miss K says she didnt apply for either the business account or the Bounce Back Loan, and 
had no knowledge of either until opening some correspondence about the account that was 
sent to her address and finding her name mentioned within it. When she contacted Lloyds 
about this in October 2020, it closed the business account and later terminated the Bounce 
Back Loan. It send a demand for repayment of the £40,000 loan to Miss K in April 2021.
In response to Miss Ks complaint, Lloyds said that all the details within the business account 
application matched her own and that all correspondence about the account was sent to her 
home address. So it didnt uphold the complaint and suggested that Miss K contact the 
police if she felt shed been the victim of fraud.
Miss K referred her concerns to us in the hope of releasing her from any obligations to repay 
the Bounce Back Loan, which she maintained she had nothing to do with. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened, but didnt think that Lloyds had done anything 
wrong. She said, in summary, that:
The business account application had contained Miss Ks genuine personal details 
and those of her Halifax bank account. So she didnt think Lloyds had made an error 
in processing the application.
The debit card that was linked to the account, and the associated personal 
identification number (PIN), had both been sent to Miss Ks registered address.  
The card and PIN wouldve been required to set up online banking and to create the 
new payees (along with a card reader), and ultimately to fulfil each of the 
transactions that had utilised the loan funds. She also noted that the bank had sent 
text messages confirming the new payees to Miss Ks mobile number.
So, taking all of this into account, she didnt think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to 
hold Miss K responsible for the repayment of the loan.
Miss K didnt accept our investigators view. She replied to say that:
Shed been living in shared accommodation  away from her registered address, 
which was her family home  at the time of the disputed applications, and had her 
Halifax account details written down (the implication being that these wouldve been 
available to a third party).
Shed not received a card, PIN or card reader. 
Lloyds had advised her that another mobile number had been linked to the account.
She queried the location of certain transactions, believing she could prove these 
werent made by her as she had video evidence of her whereabouts.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, the available evidence doesnt support Miss Ks claim that she didnt make 
the business account or Bounce Back Loan applications, or that she was unaware of them. 
Ill explain how Ive reached this view.
To facilitate the Bounce Back Loan application in question, a business account was required. 
Lloyds record of the account application shows that Miss Ks genuine personal information 
was used  including her full name, date of birth and postal address. 
Lloyds records show that correspondence about the account  most notably the card and 
PIN  was sent to Miss Ks address, which she has confirmed to us as correct (albeit her 
parents home, where she was staying intermittently while studying). And Miss K has also 
confirmed receipt of correspondence about the account to her address.
While its plausible that a third party may have been able to obtain Miss Ks information and 
therefore make an application in her name, an account in Miss Ks name would be of little 
use to them if correspondence about the account  including the card and PIN needed to 
operate it  was sent to Miss K. 
Once the account was opened, the Bounce Back Loan application was made. Miss K has 
told us that she didnt have a business, so I can see why she would query the basis on which 
Lloyds approved the £40,000 loan. But under the rules of the unique government-backed 
scheme to support businesses through the coronavirus pandemic, lenders were entitled to 
approve applications on the basis of the declarations made by the applicant. In other words, 
Lloyds wasnt required to verify the information contained within the application made in 
Miss Ks name.
The loan was drawn down to the business account in Miss Ks name. A number of 
transactions  both online and in person  were made thereafter. Each of these wouldve 
required the card and PIN, which had been sent to Miss Ks registered address. So it seems 
most likely to me that they were made by Miss K. She hasnt described an alternative course of events that is plausible. Even if I were to accept that a third party somehow obtained 
Miss Ks personal information and applied for the account or loan (or both), it is difficult to 
see how they wouldve been able to access the funds at issue without Miss Ks involvement. 
And although I note that Miss K says she didnt receive a card reader for the business 
account, she wouldnt have needed one  as any Lloyds card reader couldve been used, 
including the one already in her possession for her personal account.
Ive considered the evidence that Miss K has provided in an effort to demonstrate that she 
couldnt have made some of the in-person transactions. These were made in London, and 
Miss K says she was in Leicester. But nothing she has sent us confirms her whereabouts on 
any particular day. Records of activity on her personal Halifax account contradict her claim 
on this point. These show that she withdrew cash from her personal account using an ATM 
in London on 16 July, which suggests that she was in a similar area to the location of the 
disputed cash withdrawals made from the business account on 13 and 14 July (about eight 
miles away).
Ive taken into account everything Miss K has told us, including her point that a different 
mobile number was used during the application process. I can see that a different number 
was provided during the business account application, although there is no way of verifying 
who that belongs to. Either way, the available evidence still doesnt lead me to think that the 
loan was obtained and utilised without Miss Ks knowledge or involvement. 
So from what Ive seen, I dont think the disputed applications or subsequent transactions 
were made by a third party without her knowledge. It follows that I dont think Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in holding Miss K liable for the Bounce Back Loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman