DRN-1433524
The complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002 and additional cover with a further 
advance in 2003. He paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint for the following reasons.
In 2002, Mr S ticked a box on his mortgage application form to indicate he wanted PPI. He 
also signed a separate application form specifically for the PPI. In 2003, its recorded that Mr 
S said he wanted his full repayments to be covered by his existing PPI, and he completed a 
separate application form for the additional PPI cover. So, I think Lloyds made Mr S aware 
that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. I can understand if 
he doesnt remember this given how long ago it was. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S, and it seems to have been right for him based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. He had very little sick pay through his work 
and no other way to keep up with repayments. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I 
think Mr S would still have bought it. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr S doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ss comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman