DRN-1776995
 
The complaint
Miss B and Mr M complain because AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid a claim for medical 
expenses under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to AXA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims
What happened
Miss B and Mr M hold a travel insurance policy as a benefit with a bank account. The policy 
is provided by AXA and covers European travel.   
While Miss B and Mr M were on holiday with their children who are also insured under the 
policy, both children unfortunately fell ill. 
Miss B and Mr M contacted AXA, who gave them the name of a hospital (which Ill call 
Hospital A) to take the children to and confirmed cover was in place under the policy. The 
children were admitted and AXA issued guarantees of payment to Hospital A. 
After Mr M expressed concerns about the care the children were receiving in Hospital A, 
AXA arranged for the children to be transferred and admitted to a second hospital (which Ill 
call Hospital B). Later the same day, AXA identified that Miss B and Mr M held European 
cover only and said, as they were on holiday outside of Europe, the childrens medical 
expenses wouldnt be covered. 
Miss B and Mr M complained to AXA and asked to be reimbursed for the medical bills theyd 
paid. 
AXA said Miss B and Mr M didnt hold the correct level of insurance cover for the destination 
they were visiting. AXA said it would cover the cost of transferring the children to Hospital B 
but that Miss B and Mr M would always have incurred medical expenses, so its mistake 
hadnt caused them any financial loss. AXA offered to pay Miss B and Mr M £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience theyd experienced as a result of the situation. 
As Miss B and Mr M remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld but AXA didnt agree, so the 
matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Miss B and Mr Ms policy say:
            This insurance provides cover whilst on trips within Europe.Miss B and Mr M were holidaying outside of Europe when they incurred the expenses they 
are claiming for. So I think its clear their claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of their policy. However, Ive also considered what I think would be a fair and reasonable 
outcome for both parties based on the particular circumstances of the complaint. Having 
done so, I think AXA should pay Miss B and Mr Ms claim and Ill explain why. 
When Miss B and Mr M first contacted AXA to say the children were sick, they were given 
the name of Hospital A. Cover was confirmed by AXA and it issued guarantees of payment 
to Hospital A. 
After Miss B and Mr M expressed concerns about the standard of care being provided by 
Hospital A, there appears to have been a somewhat covert arrangement made by AXA to 
transfer the children to a different hospital. Mr M was told not to say a word to Hospital A. 
Due to a subsequent dispute with Hospital A, Miss B and Mr M paid the medical bills directly 
in order for the children to be discharged. I can see from AXAs call notes that it advised 
Miss B and Mr M not to pay the bills and AXA was trying to liaise with Hospital A directly, but 
its clear a difficult situation was unfolding and Hospital A blocked the ambulance which was 
due to transfer the children until Mr M paid the bills.  
AXA incorrectly confirmed cover and sent Miss B and Mr M to Hospital A, despite AXA later 
acknowledging in a call that Hospital B was its preferred medical facility in the area where it 
knew the care was good and appropriate. AXAs notes say the claim in Hospital A would 
need to be monitored closely as facility tends to overcharge. Miss B and Mr M have said if 
theyd known they had no cover under their policy at an earlier point, theyd have transferred 
the children to a different hospital sooner. If this had happened then the medical bills may 
have been lower. 
AXA seems to have assured Hospital A that it would be paying the bills. AXAs notes also 
indicate it told Mr M it would honour the guarantees of payment it had sent to Hospital A. The 
amount of money paid to Hospital A by Miss B and Mr M appears to match the guarantees of 
payment AXA sent to Hospital A. 
Miss B and Mr M may have disadvantaged AXA by paying the bills when they did, denying 
AXA the opportunity to negotiate a discount with Hospital A. However, I dont think Miss B 
and Mr M acted unreasonably given the circumstances they were in and Im satisfied its 
unlikely the children would have remained at Hospital A for as long as they did were it not for 
AXAs mistake.   
Having taken all of these circumstances into account, I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for AXA to honour its guarantee to pay for the medical bills in Hospital A. This means I think 
AXA should reimburse Miss B and Mr M for what they paid to Hospital A. 
The children had already been transferred to Hospital B before AXA identified that Miss B 
and Mr M didnt have the correct level of cover. While I accept its likely Miss B and Mr M 
would have incurred medical bills regardless of AXAs mistake, I also think it would be fair 
and reasonable for AXA to pay for the bills incurred in Hospital B in the circumstances. 
The things you need to know section of Miss B and Mr Ms policy, set out on page 8 of their 
account documentation, lists the key benefits of their travel insurance cover. The last bullet 
point listed says Miss B and Mr M hold multi-trip European travel cover. Page 18 of the 
account documentation  which is where the terms and conditions of the travel insurance 
policy start  says the account provides European travel insurance. I think this important information could perhaps have been set out more prominently but, 
ultimately, it was Miss B and Mr Ms responsibility to make sure they had the correct level of 
cover for their trip. 
Having said that, Im satisfied Miss B and Mr M made a genuine mistake in this case. Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest the claim relates to any pre-existing medical conditions which 
the children might have had, and the claim was entirely unanticipated. 
AXA would have provided Miss B and Mr M with a worldwide cover upgrade at a cost of 
£87.50 if theyd contacted it to purchase this before they travelled, as I think they should 
have. 
In the particular circumstances of Miss B and Mr Ms complaint, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for AXA to also cover the medical costs charged by Hospital B. But AXA is 
entitled to deduct the additional premium it would have charged Mr M and Miss B to provide 
worldwide cover. 
AXA has already made an offer to pay Miss B and Mr M £250 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its error in this case. I have no doubt that this was a very 
stressing situation for Miss B and Mr M, and I think AXAs offer of compensation is fair in all 
the circumstances 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss B and Mr M's complaint. I direct AXA Insurance UK 
Plc to do the following; 
reimburse Miss B and Mr M for the money they paid to Hospital A and Hospital B, 
less what it would have charged Miss B and Mr M for a worldwide upgrade extension 
to their policy;
add interest to this amount at 8% simple per annum from the date the bills were paid 
until the date of settlement;
pay Miss B and Mr M the £250 compensation it has already offered for the distress 
and inconvenience they experienced. 
 
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA Insurance UK Plc to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to above. AXA Insurance UK Plc must give Miss B and Mr M a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted if they ask for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman