DRN-3391764
The complaint
Mr B complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) hasnt offered a 
fair settlement for the total loss of his vehicle after a claim was made on his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
In 2021, Mr Bs car was stolen so he made a claim under his motor insurance policy. LV 
accepted the claim and offered £20,506.67 for the market value of the vehicle. This included 
a deduction of £50 for not having a valid MOT. 
Mr B didnt think this was a fair reflection of the cars value. He said LV hadnt obtained 
valuations from all the available trade guides. And he provided adverts for similar vehicles, 
which ranged between £23,000 and £25,000. He raised a complaint about this, as well as 
some concerns over the customer service hed received. 
LV maintained that its offer was fair. But it did acknowledge there had been some failings in 
its customer service. So it awarded £50 compensation, which it sent by cheque, to put things 
right. But Mr B remained unhappy, so he contacted us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said LVs offer was based on the motor 
trade guides recognised by the industry, so she was satisfied it was a fair offer in line with 
the policy terms. She also considered £50 to be a reasonable resolution for the lack of 
communication throughout the claim. She didnt think LV needed to do anything more. 
Mr B didnt agree that the settlement offer was fair, and hes asked that an ombudsman 
consider this part of his complaint only. So it has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, its not my role to work out the exact value of Mr Bs car. What I need to decide is 
whether LV has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. 
Mr Bs policy says that LV must pay the market value of the car, in the event of a total loss. 
The policy defines the market value as 
The cost of replacing your car with the same make, model and specification. Age, mileage 
and condition will be taken into account. Well ask an engineer for advice, use motor trade 
guides and other sources to determine the market value. Well consider the amount you 
could have reasonably got for your car if you sold it immediately before the accident, loss or 
theft and not the price you paid for it.
I can see that LV took advice from its engineer and obtained valuations from three motor 
trade guides, which put the market value at £19,930, £19,800 and £21,940. Based on this, 
LV offered Mr B a settlement figure of £20,506.67, which is the average of the three quotes. 
Ive reviewed the trade guide valuations obtained by LV and Im satisfied they are based on 
the correct details of the vehicle at the time of loss. Its standard practice for the industry to 
use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And its not 
unreasonable that it does so, as the valuation the guides give are based on national 
research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. We find theyre more reliable than individual adverts, which can vary vastly and 
can also be misleading.
I appreciate Mr B wants valuations obtained from all available motor trade guides. But I dont 
think that is reasonable or necessary here. I wouldnt expect LV to subscribe to all available 
valuation services and I consider it good practice to use at least two. 
Our investigator obtained a valuation from a fourth motor trade guide, which put the market 
value at £23,866. She said this was an outlier at it was a lot higher than the others. I dont 
agree, as its within £2,000 of the other valuations which isnt disproportionate  so I dont 
think it should be discounted. 
But regardless of this, Im not persuaded this valuation makes LVs offer unfair. I say this 
because £20,506.67 is still within the valuation range of £19,930 and £23,866. LV arent 
obliged to offer the average of the figures or pay the highest valuation. As long as its offer 
falls in the ballpark, then I dont consider it to be outside of the policy terms or unfair.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman