DRN-3726192
The complaint
Mr and Ms M's complaint is about Ageas Insurance Limiteds refusal of a claim under the 
legal expenses section of their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms M made a claim under the policy in 2021, as she wanted cover to join a group legal claim 
against her employment pension scheme for discrimination. The claim related to changes to 
the pension made in 2015.  
Ageas says the home insurance policy ran from November 2014 to November 2015 and the  
legal expenses cover was only added on 26 March 2015, which was six days before the 
pension changes came into effect on 1 April 2015. Ageas says it is unusual for customers to 
add legal expenses cover to a policy mid-term; Ms M would have been offered it at the start 
of the policy in November 2014 but declined it and then actively applied for it in March 2015. 
Ageas also says there would have been advance notice of the pension changes; Ms M told it 
that she was made aware of the potential changes in 2014 and a support group for members 
was set up in February 2015. (It initially said that Ms M had joined this group in February 
2015 but later accepted shed joined it in August 2015.) Ageas says that taking all this into 
account, it is reasonable to conclude that Ms M knew of the pension changes and had added 
the legal expenses cover because of the pension issue. Ageas said that as she was aware 
of the events giving rise to the claim before she took out the policy, it is not covered. 
Ms M is adamant this is not the case and says it is defamatory to suggest she took the cover 
deliberately to make a claim on it. Ms M says she didnt know the legal expenses cover had 
been added part way through the year and in fact didnt even know she had legal expenses 
cover until she enquired (as a result of advice by others affected by the pensions issue) in 
2021. Ms M provided evidence that she joined the support group in August 2015. She also 
said that her employee representative organisation had told her that there could be no 
challenge to the pension changes, which is why she did not join the initial legal challenge 
about the pensions; if shed taken out the legal cover just for this purpose then she would 
have joined the initial challenge. It doesnt make sense to have waited until 2021 and then 
join the second group.  
Ms M did join the group challenge, which was successful. Ms M says she has had to pay 
£1,472.63 in legal costs from an award of £2,000, which is not fair. She has asked for the 
costs to be reimbursed to her. 
Ageas maintained its refusal of the claim and said there had been two previous claims under 
the policy, so Ms M was aware of it before this claim.
Two of our Investigators looked into the matter. The first recommended the complaint be 
upheld as she thought there was not enough evidence that Ms M was aware of the pension 
changes at the time she took out the policy. The second, concluded that it was more likely 
than not that Ms M was aware of the changes, as she had said shed been notified of them 
in 2014 and pension schemes are required to give at least 60 days notice of changes like 
the ones made to Ms Ms scheme, which means members would have been notified in some 
time before she took out the policy. 
Ms M does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
She has said she has never disputed she was aware of the changes being made to her 
pension scheme in advance of them being in place on 1 April 2015 but at the time of adding 
the legal expenses cover, she had no intention of making a claim and she could not have 
foreseen the events that happened. She is offended by the suggestion she took the policy in 
order to make a claim on it. In addition, it wasnt anticipated that there would be a second 
group action and she had missed joining the first wave. She is being accused of fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms policy, like most other legal expenses insurance policies, covers certain events 
provided that:
the insured incident occurs within  the period of insurance. 
But it specifically excludes:
Any claim  For which the Date of Event is before the date of inception of this 
Policy.
The date of event is defined as being: 
The date of any event which may lead to a claim; where there is more than
one such event, the date of the first of these. 
This is not unusual or unfair in my opinion and the terms are set out reasonably clearly. 
Indeed, most insurance policies do not cover incidents or events that have already started, 
or the policyholder is aware of, as the purpose of insurance generally is to cover unforeseen 
and unexpected events.
The cause of action was the actual changes to the pension, which were made six days after 
the start of the cover. However, if it is likely that there was knowledge of the potential cause 
of action, before the start of the policy, then an insurer would be entitled to refuse cover. 
Ms M says she does not recall adding the legal expenses cover at all and had no awareness 
that she might end up involved in legal action over her pension.  However, it doesnt have to 
be shown that she had crystalised plan or intention to take legal proceedings about the 
pension changes; it is enough that on the balance of probabilities Ms M was aware of the 
events that would give rise to a claim and the possibility of needing to take action with regard 
to the pensions changes. 
I have considered all the evidence provided. Ms M says she doesnt recall how the legal 
expenses cover was added to her home insurance and didnt recall she had it until 2021. It is 
difficult to make any conclusion about this. But I also note that Ageas says two other claims 
had apparently been made on the policy prior to this one. It is, as Ageas has said, unusual 
for customers to add cover mid-way through a policy and no explanation has been given as 
to why this was done. I also note that Ms M says she was aware of the impending pension 
changes in 2014; and a support group had been set up for members like her in February 
2025, even if Ms M had not at that point joined it. Having considered all this, I do think its likely she was aware of the changes to her pension and that there might potentially be legal 
action about it. 
Ms M says she is effectively being accused of fraud. I am not making any such suggestion. I 
do however, consider it more likely than not that she was aware of the possibility that legal 
action might be required because of the pension changes and the date of event was 
therefore effectively before she took out the policy with Ageas. I do not therefore think it is 
obliged to cover the claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman