DRN-3137442
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vauxhall Finance plc did not tell him that he would be charged a 
transaction fee if he used a credit card to repay the balance due on a conditional sale 
agreement.  
What happened
In June 2017 Mr B bought a new car from Vauxhall Finance. They entered into a conditional 
sale agreement, under which Mr B was to make 47 monthly payments followed by an 
optional final repayment of £5,630 if he wanted to keep the car.
Mr B decided at the end of the finance period that he did want to keep the car and contacted 
Vauxhall Finance to discuss his options. Whilst he said he could make a cash payment from 
savings, he explained that if he used a credit card he could earn loyalty points and use his 
savings to pay off the credit card bill. He asked about fees for paying in this way and was 
told there would be none. He therefore made a payment using his credit card issued by 
another provider, T. 
Vauxhall Finance did not charge Mr B anything extra for using his credit card, but T did. It 
added over £200 to his credit card bill, because it treated the payment as a cash payment 
rather than as a purchase. 
Mr B complained that Vauxhall Finance had not told him that the payment would or might be 
treated as a cash transaction. It said that it was not obliged to do so and in any event could 
not advise on charges which might be levied by other financial businesses. It had previously 
made a charge for payments made by credit card but had removed that charge in 2019. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator broadly agreed with Vauxhall Finance that, whilst it should tell 
customers about its own charges, it was under no duty to do so in respect of other firms 
charges. Mr B did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I stress first of all that I have not considered and make no comment on Ts ability to treat the 
credit card payment as a cash transaction or to charge Mr B as a result. The issue I must 
consider is whether Vauxhall Finance should have told him that might happen. 
The conditional sale agreement included a provision allowing Vauxhall Finance to charge Mr 
B 1.3% of any payment made by credit card. It dropped that charge in 2019. I can 
understand why, therefore, when asked about charges for paying by credit card, Vauxhall 
Finance might have assumed Mr B was asking about charges it (Vauxhall Finance) would 
apply. Mr B was told, correctly, that there were none. Vauxhall Finance was obliged to 
provide information about its own charges, not those which might be added by other 
providers.  
Mr B has said that, when he complained about the charge, he was told that it was an issue 
that other customers had raised. He says therefore that Vauxhall Finance must have been 
aware that it was an issue and that it should therefore have alerted him to the possibility of 
charges being added by a credit card provider. I can understand his point here and, in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must have regard to what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. I do not believe I can fairly say however that an 
acknowledgment of this nature after the event means that Vauxhall Finance should have 
alerted Mr B to the possibility that a third party might add charges. If Mr B was concerned 
that T would apply a charge, the obvious thing to do would be to check with T what the 
position was. After all, it was T that decided to treat the payment as cash transaction. And if 
Mr B, as Ts customer, did not appreciate that T might levy a charge, I do not believe I can 
reasonably conclude that Vauxhall Finance should have done so.         
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Vauxhall Finance Limited to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman