DRN-2502037
The complaint
Mr d complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) were not willing to change the 
presentation of his surname on his bank account details. 
What happened
Mr d has a bank account with Nationwide and in late 2019, says he visited his local branch 
to ask for his surname to show the correct presentation. Mr d asked a member of staff for the 
first part of his surname to be shown all in lower case and the second part of his surname to 
begin with a capital letter and the remaining letters to be shown in lower case. Alternatively, 
Mr d says he would have accepted his surname to be presented all in capital letters.
Mr d says the member of staff asked for his passport to check the presentation of the 
surname and when he presented it to the staff member, they said they couldnt change it 
because the passport was presented with his surname showing it with capital letters and 
needed further identification. Mr d subsequently made a telephone complaint and received a 
final response letter from Nationwide in which he says it suggest he was lying about how his 
surname was presented on his passport. Mr d says the author of the final response letter 
indicates the spelling of his surname on his passport was presented in a different way than it 
actually was and Nationwide simply accepted the member of staffs version of events rather 
than his, doubting his integrity. Mr d wants an apology from Nationwide and his surname to 
be presented on his bank account details in the way he has asked. 
Nationwide have said they were sorry that Mr d felt the need to complain but the way their 
systems are set, doesnt allow for customers surnames to be presented either starting with a 
lower-case letter or all in capitals as Mr d wanted. Nationwide says they are happy to make a 
note on their records detailing the correct presentation of Mr ds surname.  
Mr d was unhappy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr ds complaint. He 
felt while the final response letter from Nationwide may have indicated Mr ds passport was 
presented differently to what it actually reads - this didnt detract from the fact Nationwide 
wouldnt be able to amend their systems to allow Mr ds surname to be presented in the way 
he wished. 
Mr d wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand that it would be important to Mr d to have his surname correctly shown on 
his bank account, to recognise its formal presentation and it would be frustrating and 
upsetting for him to be told this couldnt be done by Nationwide. When looking at this 
complaint I have focussed on whether Nationwide have treated Mr d reasonably when 
dealing with his request to amend his bank account surname presentation and if they acted 
fairly when telling him they couldnt accommodate his request. 
What happened here is Mr d went into his local Nationwide branch and noticed his surname 
wasnt correctly presented on his bank account statements. Mr d says while he has 
maintained a bank account with Nationwide for many years, he hadnt realised they hadnt 
correctly presented his surname on their records. Mr d says the correct presentation of the 
first part of his surname should be shown all in lower case and the second part of his 
surname to begin with a capital letter and the remaining letters in lower case. Mr d says he 
queried this with the member of staff at the branch and was asked for his passport, which he 
provided to them although he didnt feel it was necessary. Mr d says the member of staff at 
the branch said the surname couldnt be changed as his passport didnt reflect the way in 
which he wanted his name presented and required further identification from him. 
Following this Mr d telephoned Nationwide to make a complaint insisting his surname should 
be presented correctly in future. Nationwide looked into the complaint and issued a final 
response letter in which they confirmed their systems were unable to accommodate the 
presentation of his surname in the way he wished. Mr d says the final response letter 
suggests his passport shows his surname in a mix of lower and upper case, when in fact it is 
all in capital letters. Mr d says the member of staff at the branch had deliberately misled 
Nationwides member relations team, into thinking this was how his passport presented his 
surname. Mr d telephoned the author of the final response letter and told him he felt the tone 
of the letter implied he was lying about how his passport presented his surname. Mr d still 
wanted Nationwide to change the presentation of his surname to the way he wished but was 
told that couldnt be accommodated because of the way Nationwides systems operated.
I have looked at what both parties have said here and while I understand what Mr d is saying 
about both the final response letter and the staff misleading Nationwides member relations 
team, there is no evidence to suggest this was anything other than a misunderstanding or an 
example of poor internal communication. I say this because at the time Mr d went to the 
branch the member of staff was unlikely to know how the type presentation of head office 
systems would or could work. Instead mistakenly the member of staff had incorrectly thought 
Mr ds passport was needed to change his surname, when in fact it was the presentation of 
the surname and not the way it was spelt that needed changing.
I can see the final response letter suggests the passport showed Mr ds surname with a mix 
of lower and upper cases when this wasnt correct. From what I have seen, I cant say the 
information provided by the branch was a deliberate attempt to mislead anyone or suggest 
Mr d was lying about his passport information, as there was nothing to gain by doing so. I am 
satisfied, on balance, the information sent to the author of the final response letter, on which 
he had relied on, to issue that letter, while perhaps poorly communicated, was just that.   
 
What is important here is whether or not Nationwide should change the presentation of Mr 
ds surname in the way he wishes, which is of course understandably important to him. The 
fact is Nationwide have made it clear, while they understand the importance to Mr d, their 
systems simply do not allow for surnames to be presented beginning with a lower-case letter 
or all in capital letters which Mr d wanted. Mr d says a previous bank he held a relationship 
with, managed to correctly present his surname and that may well be the case, but it is fair to 
say that all banks will have different systems in place for a variety of reasons. Of course, Mr 
d has the option to look to see if another bank may be able to accommodate him and that would be understandable, given the importance the presentation of his surname is to him. 
That said, its not my place to tell Nationwide or any bank, how their systems must operate 
only that it doesnt financially disadvantage Mr d as a result   I am satisfied this is the case 
here. 
Nationwide have recognised Mr ds feelings about this matter and have said in their final 
response letter, theyre sorry he needed to complain. I am pleased to see they have 
attempted to reassure Mr d, by making a note in their records, that although they cant 
accommodate his request, they do recognise the way in which his surname should be 
presented. I am satisfied this shows Nationwide have recognised the importance this has to 
Mr d.
While Mr d will be disappointed with my decision it follows, I wont be asking anymore of 
Nationwide here.   
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr d to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman