DRN-3731593
The complaint
Miss G complains that BUPA Insurance Limited declined her private medical insurance claim 
and added an exclusion to her policy.
What happened
Miss G bought a private medical insurance policy insured by BUPA. The policy started on 
30 March 2022 and was amended on 6 April 2022. The policy was fully medically 
underwritten which meant any pre-existing condition wasnt covered.
In April 2002 Miss G made a claim on the policy for a MRI scan related to her diagnosis of 
chronic lymphoid leukaemia.
BUPA declined the claim. It said evidence from Miss Gs GP showed the first signs that her 
blood tests needed further investigation was on 14 February 2022 and the results from 
haematology received on 22 March 2022 suggested the possible diagnosis of chronic 
lymphoid leukaemia. Those dates were before the policy started and BUPA said in these 
circumstances Miss Gs leukaemia met the policy definition of a pre-existing condition so 
there was no cover for the condition under the policy terms. It added an exclusion for 
leukaemia from the start of the policy to Miss Gs policy.
Miss G complained to us. She said she didnt know she had leukaemia when she took out 
the policy.
Our investigator said BUPA fairly declined the claim.
Miss G disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary she said:
She caught covid-19 on her return from holiday and asked her GP to do blood tests 
to find out if she had irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). The GP told her the test results 
showed her white blood count was high which was due to her having had the covid-
19 infection. 
The GP asked her to have more tests and she was referred to haematology where 
they told her she had leukaemia.
She took out the policy when she did as after returning from holiday she realised how 
delicate life is.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I have to decide whether BUPA fairly and reasonably declined Miss Gs claim and added an 
exclusion for leukaemia, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. The policy defines pre-existing condition 
as: 
any disease, illness or injury for which in the seven years before (the policy started) 
you have received:
medication, advice or Treatment, or
you have experienced symptoms,
whether the condition was diagnosed or not.
The policy definition of treatment includes diagnostic tests, which would include blood tests.
I appreciate Miss G says she went to her GP about her IBS, not because she had concerns 
about cancer.
But the evidence from her GP said:
Miss Gs first abnormal blood test was on 25 January 2022 but at that stage it was 
thought that could be related to a recent infection rather than a more serious 
condition.
The first sign that the blood test needed more investigation was on 14 February 2022 
when a haematology referral was made.
A letter from haematology advising leukaemia was one of the possible diagnosis was 
received on 22 March 2022.
Although Miss G didnt know she had leukaemia when the blood tests started, I think BUPA 
reasonably said her leukaemia was a pre-existing condition under the policy terms as the 
blood tests she had before the policy started led to the diagnosis of leukaemia.
I havent seen any medical evidence of the date Miss G was told she did have leukaemia. 
But even if she was told of the diagnosis after the policy started in these circumstances the 
leukaemia would still be a pre-existing condition under the policy terms as the diagnosis 
didnt need to be confirmed before the policy started. Im satisfied that Miss Gs claim wasnt 
covered under the policy terms.
Ive also considered whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In response to 
Miss Gs comments BUPA contacted her GP to get further information but the GP didnt 
respond. Miss G told BUPA she was no longer registered with that GP and Ive seen her 
comments to BUPA about why she thinks the GP hasnt responded. But Im satisfied that 
BUPA acted fairly and reasonably in relying on the medical evidence it had from the GP to 
assess and decline the claim and to apply the exclusion for leukaemia on Miss Gs policy.
The exclusion BUPA placed on Miss Gs policy says theres an exclusion: 
For any claim for treatment due to Leukaemia, until Healthcare practitioner report 
received and deemed as eligible for (Miss G), benefit is not payable.
So BUPA has left open the possibility that it will review the situation if new medical evidence 
is received from the GP, which is reasonable for it to do.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman