DRN-3856225
The complaint
Mrs F complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
credit card application and went on to increase the credit limit. 
What happened
In 2016 Mrs F applied for an Aqua credit card. In the application, Mrs F said she was 
employed earning £25,000 and was a homeowner. Aqua carried out a credit search and 
found Mrs F had five defaulted accounts totalling £8,300 with the most recent default being 
recorded 22 months earlier. Aqua also found £4,800 of unsecured debt and a mortgage of 
£272,000. Aquas application didnt record any other household income, monthly 
accommodation costs or living expenses. Aqua approved a credit card for Mrs F with a limit 
of £1,200. 
Mrs F used the credit card and made monthly payments. In June 2016 Aqua increased the 
credit limit to £1,400 and in October 2016 it went up again, this time to £2,600. Aqua says it 
carried out affordability checks both times the credit limit increased. 
In 2017 Mrs Fs account fell into arrears and was ultimately closed with a default being 
recorded on her credit file. 
Last year, Mrs F complained that Aqua had lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit 
card and later increased the credit limit. Aqua sent Mrs F a final response explaining it didnt 
agree it had lent irresponsibly. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Fs case and upheld it. They thought Aqua had 
lent irresponsibly when approving the application and increasing Mrs Fs credit limit. They 
asked Aqua to refund all interest and charges, amend Mrs Fs credit file and potentially 
agree a fair repayment plan for any remaining balance. Aqua didnt agree it had lent 
irresponsibly and asked to appeal. As a result, Mrs Fs complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Aqua had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Mrs F could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These 
affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like:
-The amount of credit; - 
-The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments; - 
-The duration of the agreement; - The costs of the credit; and  
-The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Ive looked at the information Aqua had available when it assessed Mrs Fs application. Mrs 
F confirmed she was employed with an income of £25,000. But when Aqua carried out a 
credit search it found unsecured credit for around £4,800 plus several defaults with a total 
value of around £8,300. Some of the defaults were less than two years old. In addition, Aqua 
found Mrs F had a mortgage of around £272,000. The monthly payments were around 
£1,350. Mrs Fs application didnt contain any other income details for her household. 
In my view, the information available to Aqua showed Mrs F had a significant level of 
outstanding debt in her name when she applied for the credit card. The mortgage balance 
was over ten times Mrs Fs income and that shed defaulted on a substantial level of 
unsecured debt around two years before the application was made. Im satisfied there were 
signs she mayve been borrowing in an unsustainable way. And I think that shouldve caused 
Aqua to consider a completing more comprehensive checks before deciding to proceed. 
In response to the investigator, Aqua said it was likely Mrs Fs husband also worked. But I 
think a more appropriate point to have sought additional information about household 
finances wouldve been when Mrs F applied in 2016. Mrs F has confirmed her husband also 
works and paid towards the mortgage and household expenses. But I still think Aqua ought 
to have carried out better checks to ensure Mrs F could afford to manage and repay another 
debt. 
In much the same way, Im not persuaded reasonable checks were carried out when Mrs Fs 
credit limit was increased to £1,400. The credit card had only been subject to three 
payments at this point so there was only a limited track record of Mrs Fs borrowing with 
Aqua. Aquas affordability data shows Mrs Fs unsecured borrowing had gone up by around 
£500 in four months and that she had active short term lending. 
After another four months, the credit limit was increased again. The new credit limit was 
£2,600, almost double the previous credit limit. Again, Mrs Fs unsecured credit had 
increased and she had active short term lending. Taken with the above factors, I think Aqua 
shouldve carried out better checks before extending Mrs Fs credit limit. 
Mrs F has provided the transaction history from her current account. I can see a regular 
outgoings for Mrs Fs credit commitments, mortgage, utilities and living costs. Even factoring 
other income received into the account, Im satisfied the information shows Mrs F was 
unlikely to be in a position to sustainably manage further borrowing. In my view, if Aqua had 
completed better checks and got a more comprehensive picture of Mrs Fs circumstances it 
wouldve declined to proceed. 
Based on the information available, Im upholding Mrs Fs complaint and direct Aqua to settle 
as follows: 
Refund all interest, fees and charges applied Mrs Fs credit card from inception to 
date 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs F along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Aqua should also remove all adverse information regarding the 
credit card from Mrs Fs credit file
Or, if after the rework, there is still an outstanding balance Aqua should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs F on an interest free basis. Once Mrs F has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from their credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Aqua to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to 
settle in line with the above guidance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman