DRN-3198072
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy at the amount of overdraft charges and fees applied to his account  he 
thinks TSB Bank plc (TSB) should have done more to help him when he was financially 
struggling. 
What happened
Mr C complained to TSB about the charges applied to his account when he went over his 
overdraft limit  he says the charges were unaffordable and he was financially struggling. 
TSB said all charges were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns and reached the conclusion TSB hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr C disagreed, he says sending letters notifying him of the status of his account 
wasnt enough and TSB should have done more. He would like a refund of the charges 
applied to his account. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr C has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts TSB charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with - Mr C doesnt dispute this. That said, while Im not 
looking at TSBs various charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr C if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Cs account in circumstances 
where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr C was 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where TSB didnt treat Mr C fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that TSB did treat Mr C unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say 
this because having looked at Mr Cs statements for the period in question (2016-2018), I 
can see little to suggest that TSB ought to have realised Mr C might have been experiencing 
financial difficulties prior to it being notified of this. 
Mr Cs statements show that Mr C was in credit far more than in overdraft and when Mr Cs 
account did become overdrawn this was quickly rectified with regular incoming payments 
and a healthy salary. I accept that at times Mr C went over his arranged overdraft limit of 
£150 but this didnt happen regularly and Mr C always rectified the situation quickly on being 
notified of the status of his account - which TSB did when Mr C exceeded his limit. 
There were also not insignificant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr C wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted TSB to any potential financial difficulty before Mr C raised it.
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for TSB to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Cs account 
was being used. And I dont think that TSB treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably and this 
means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr C. But I he understands the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman