DRN-2163484
The complaint
Mrs M complains that her home contents insurer, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited, 
refuses to settle her claim for a lost watch. She says the watch was worth £6,000.
What happened
Mrs M lost her watch in March 2019. Mrs M had taken out a home contents insurance policy 
with Admiral in May 2018. She specified six items as being worth more than £1,000. One of 
which was the watch. Mrs M chose to cover it away from home, and said it was worth 
£6,000. No independent valuation or further details about the watch were asked for by 
Admiral at the start of the policy. When the watch wasnt found, Mrs M made a claim.
In the Guide to your Admiral Platinum Home Insurance Cover, Admiral explained the 
process for Making a home insurance claim. This included the following paragraph:
We may request further information to support your claim such as original purchase 
receipts, invoices or valuations dated prior to the item being placed on cover. We 
may also request: the box an item originally came in, its warranty certificate, 
instruction booklet, photograph or details of the date and place of purchase  Please 
keep these details in a safe place and do not discard them  as they could help us 
settle your claim faster. If you do not provide such details when requested, it could 
mean we do not pay your claim or reduce the amount you are able to claim for.
This information was repeated in the Guide, under the heading Basis for settling home 
insurance claims.
To validate Mrs Ms claim Admiral, through their appointed investigators, asked her to 
provide proof of purchase for the watch. Mrs M was able to provide some photographs of her 
wearing the watch, but she explained she didnt have anything else (like a receipt, box or 
certificate) because the watch had been a gift in 2015 from her now ex-husband. She 
explained theyd split-up very shortly after hed given her the watch. Mrs M said the watch 
was boxed when she was given it, but she couldnt recall seeing a guarantee card or 
certificate  she said its not something she wouldve looked for.
Admiral contacted Mrs Ms ex-husband, Mr M, and asked him about where hed got the 
watch. According to Admirals claim notes, he told them that in July 2015 hed been 
approached by a friend whod asked him to sell the watch (Mr M worked with jewellery). As it 
didnt sell, Mr M asked another friend to value it, and then bought the watch himself for 
£4,000 cash. Mr M said the valuation was given verbally, and he no-longer had any contact 
details for the friend hed purchased the watch from. He didnt know whether he still had the 
box and authenticity papers, or where they might be. He said since hed left the marital 
home, many of his belongings were in various storage facilities.
When asked whether he could evidence how hed paid for the watch, Mr M said hed paid for 
it with cash hed inherited from his father-in-law. He couldnt provide any paperwork to 
evidence this. Mrs M later told us that Mr M had inherited a sum of £5,000 from her father, 
three years prior to the watch purchase, in 2012. She said hed received the money in cash, 
but she didnt know what hed spent it on.
Admiral asked Mrs M whether shed had the watch valued since receiving it in 2015. She 
said she didnt get it valued because she works with jewellery and, didnt think it was 
necessary. She also didnt have the watch serviced.
Admiral examined the photographs provided by Mrs M and concluded they were taken 
between July 2017 and September 2018. They accepted that the watch in the images 
resembles a watch of the brand and model Mrs M says she owned and lost. However, they 
didnt think the images were enough to prove its authenticity. They also accepted shed more 
likely than not lost a watch  the supermarket shed visited on the day of loss confirmed 
shed called them about it twice and returned to the store. But Admiral declined the claim 
saying there was insufficient evidence to substantiate Mrs Ms claim for such a valuable 
watch.
Our investigator obtained information from Mrs Ms previous insurers. The policy she had 
between 2017 and 2018 didnt cover items individually worth more than £3,000 unless they 
were specified. On that policy Mrs M specified three items worth over £3,000, two rings and 
a bracelet; she didnt specify the watch. The policy she held for the five years prior to 2017 
didnt require individual items worth less than £12,000 to be listed.
our investigators view
Our investigators view on the case did change over time, but his final assessment was that 
Admiral should pay the claim. He acknowledged there was little proof available about 
ownership and value, but he thought it more likely than not Mrs M had owned and lost a 
branded watch. He based this finding on his review of the images, and his view that 
someone who works in the jewellery business, and who owns other expensive items of 
jewellery, wouldnt buy and wear a fake watch. And he didnt think Mrs M should be 
penalised for the issues with validation caused by her ex-husbands method of acquisition.
In these circumstances, he said it would be reasonable for Admiral to pay Mrs M £1,000 
(minus the applicable excess). That figure represented both the lower end of the range hed 
found examples of this watch valued at, and the maximum amount payable under the policy 
for unspecified items.
Both parties disagreed.
Mrs M said it didnt seem fair that Admiral were asking for proof of ownership and 
authenticity now, because they hadnt asked for anything like that when shed specified the 
watch on the policy.
Admiral accepted that a watch resembling a branded watch was gifted to Mrs M in 
December 2015. They also acknowledged that many of the difficulties with validation were 
caused, not by Mrs M, but by her ex-husbands failure to secure evidence at the point of 
purchase. But they remained of the opinion that, on the information available, it wasnt 
possible to determine whether the watch was genuine, or to verify Mrs Ms insurable interest 
in the watch.
Admiral said their jewellery and watch specialist had been unable to determine the watchs 
authenticity from the images. They didnt agree that Mr and Mrs Ms professional experience 
made it more likely than not the watch was genuine.
So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.Further information
As part of my consideration of the case, I asked Mrs M whether she or her ex-husband had 
any professional experience of selling or appraising watches. Mrs M has explained that their 
professional experience relates to jewellery, not watches. Theyve never sold either new or 
second-hand watches.
Mrs M also explained that she valued the watch at £6,000 when she specified it in 2018 
because thats what her ex-husband had told her it was worth.
My provisional decision
Having considered all the available evidence, I didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be 
upheld, so I issued a provisional decision on 7 August 2020. I said:
To begin with I should say that its not my role to assess Mrs Ms claim. My role is to 
decide whether I think Admiral have acted in line with the terms of the insurance 
policy and, in all the circumstances, treated Mrs M fairly.
When an insurance claim is made an insurer is entitled to ask for proof of ownership 
and of value, and its for the policyholder to substantiate their claim. The terms of Mrs 
Ms policy make it clear that when considering a claim Admiral may request such 
evidence. And if that evidence isnt available, they may refuse to pay the claim or 
reduce any settlement amount.
Policyholders arent expected to have proof of ownership for every item they own. Its 
accepted, to an extent, that people will own many low-cost items for which they 
havent retained proof of purchase. But when it comes to high value items, its not 
unreasonable that an insurer will require evidence of ownership and value.
Mrs M has explained that the watch shes claiming for was a gift, so she cant provide 
proof of purchase. I accept that, because of how the watch seems to have been 
bought and then gifted to Mrs M, she is very unlikely to have ever had a receipt. So, it 
isnt unreasonable that she cant provide one. But its also not unreasonable of 
Admiral to require Mrs M to provide some other evidence that she owned a watch 
worth £6,000. Its an item that Id expect a policyholder, particularly one with 
professional experience of working with high value items, to be able to show was 
both genuine and owned by them.
Mrs M has pointed out that Admiral didnt ask for this evidence or a valuation when 
she specified the watch at the start of the policy, and so she doesnt think its fair for 
them to do so now. But, as our investigator has previously explained, its not normal 
practice for insurers to require this evidence upfront. It wouldnt be proportionate to 
ask customers for this evidence every time they renew or take out an insurance 
policy, and its usual to wait until an event happens for which a customer wishes to 
claim.
Given that Mrs M is unable to provide a receipt, Admiral have suggested other ways 
of proving authenticity and ownership that she might reasonably be expected to 
have, even for an item that was a gift. For example, good quality photographs, the 
original box, authentication papers, or evidence of the serial number or a professional 
valuation.Unfortunately, the only evidence Mrs M has been able to provide is the identity and 
contact details of the person who gifted it to her, and some photographs.
Mrs M doesnt have an explanation for why she didnt list the watch along with other 
high value items on her previous insurance policy; shes said she probably forgot to 
include it because she was going through some personal difficulties.
Admirals experts didnt feel the images Mrs M provided were enough to authenticate 
the watch and, having looked at them myself, I dont think thats unreasonable. Its 
known that the brand of watch Mrs M is claiming for is widely copied, and there are 
some very good imitations available. Theyre also the type of luxury item which is 
stolen and sold on, so I can understand why Admiral asked for something more than 
Mrs Ms photographs to substantiate her insurable interest in the watch.
Ive thought carefully about whether, in the absence of the usual types of evidence, I 
can say, on balance, that I think Mrs M more likely than not owned a watch of the 
brand and model shes claimed for. But taking everything into consideration, my 
provisional view is that I dont think I can.
I dont agree that Mrs Ms (or her ex-husbands) professional experience in the 
jewellery trade is sufficient to conclude its more likely than not the watch was 
genuine. Whilst one might expect them to have a better eye for a fake than a person 
without their experience, neither of them have professional experience of appraising 
watches. The watch could have been an imitation without them even realising. I 
acknowledge Mr M has said he had the watch valued by a friend, but without 
anything in writing about that valuation, this isnt enough evidence.
I also dont think that Mrs Ms ownership of other high value items (all jewellery) 
make it more likely than not the watch was genuine. I have no reason to doubt that 
Mrs M owns these other items (although I have noted that the valuations provided for 
these postdate her claim for the watch and are not from an independent appraiser). 
But I dont think her ownership of this jewellery is enough to outweigh the evidential 
issues relating to the watchs purchase and authenticity.
I acknowledge that many of these evidential issues relate to Mr Ms actions rather 
than Mrs Ms, but having considered what Mr M told Admiral about the purchase, I 
cant say its unreasonable for them to have doubts about the authenticity of the 
watch.
Mr M told Admiral that the watch came into his possession after a friend asked him to 
sell it. But Mrs M has told us her ex-husband doesnt have any experience of selling 
watches. Its not impossible that a friend approached Mr M, assuming that someone 
in the jewellery trade might also be able to sell a watch. But it does strike me as an 
odd thing for Mr M to agree to do, given that it wasnt his usual business. And I think 
the fact that he can no longer provide any contact details for the friend, or evidence 
for the valuation he says he obtained, also raises questions.
Mr M has also said he doesnt know if he still has the box and authenticity papers, or 
where they might be. Mrs M couldnt recall seeing a guarantee card or certificate. If 
the watch did come with these things when he bought it, I find it surprising that Mr M 
would have taken them with him when he left the marital home; hed have had no use 
for them as hed given the watch to Mrs M.
Also, if either Mrs M or her ex-husband had these things in 2015, I think its more 
likely than not that, because of their professional experience, theyd have understood more than most the importance of retaining them in a safe place. Mrs M has 
explained that because they split-up so shortly after she was given the watch, the 
whereabouts and retention of the box, etc, wasnt a priority. Ive considered what Mrs 
M has said about that difficult time. But if the box and authenticity papers were 
available when the watch was given to Mrs M in 2015, I dont think its unreasonable 
for Admiral to expect theyd be available for inspection in 2019.
Finally, Mr M told Admiral hed paid for the watch with cash hed inherited from his 
father-in-law. Mrs M has since confirmed that Mr M was a beneficiary of her fathers 
estate in 2012; when he was given £5,000 in cash. It is possible then that Mr M 
bought the watch with £4,000 cash as hes said he did. But given the time that 
passed between the inheritance and the purchase, and the absence of any paper 
work, such as bank statements, this would mean that Mr M held the money in cash 
for some three years before using it to buy the watch. I havent seen any evidence to 
prove this is more likely than not what happened. And again, I think its 
understandable why Admiral require more than Mrs Ms photographs to substantiate 
her claim.
Taking everything into account, I dont currently think that Mrs M has provided 
sufficient evidence to prove her claim. So, I dont think that Admirals refusal to offer 
settlement for it at this stage is unfair or unreasonable.
In reply to my provisional decision Mrs M expressed disappointment in the outcome but 
made no further comments. Admiral also made no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I understand Mrs M will be disappointed, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision. For the reasons I set out in that decision, I still think Admirals 
refusal to offer settlement for this claim is fair.
I remain of the view that Mrs M hasnt provided sufficient evidence to prove her claim at this 
stage. Because of this, I find the stance Admiral have taken reasonable, and I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman