DRN-2309299
The complaint
Mr M complains that Amigo Loans Ltd lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr M was given two loans by Amigo in February and June 2018. His first loan, for £4,000, 
was repaid around a month into the planned three-year term. His second loan, for £7,500 
was due to be repaid over a five-year period. But Mr M has faced problems repaying that 
loan and a balance remains outstanding. Both loans were guaranteed by Mr Ms partner.
When Mr M first complained to Amigo it thought it had been reasonable to give him the first 
loan. But Amigo thought it had been incorrect to agree to give Mr M the second loan. So 
Amigo removed all the interest from that loan, refunding the interest that Mr M had paid to 
date. As part of the settlement agreement Mr M repaid some of the arrears on the loan. But 
that still left a significant outstanding balance that Amigo requires Mr M to repay.
When Mr Ms complaint was assessed by one of our adjudicators she thought that Amigo 
shouldnt have agreed to give the first loan to Mr M either. Amigo accepted that assessment 
and offered to refund the interest Mr M had paid in line with what our adjudicator had 
recommended. But Amigo told Mr M that it intended to use that refund to reduce his 
outstanding balance on the second loan. Our adjudicator thought that was reasonable 
however Mr M didnt agree. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ms complaint.
When it looked at the complaint Amigo recognised that it shouldnt have given the second 
loan to Mr M. And following our adjudicators assessment Amigo has agreed it shouldnt 
have given the first loan either. So dont need to decide whether those loans were lent 
unreasonably. But for completeness I will, very briefly, summarise what I have seen.
I dont think the checks Amigo did before agreeing each loan were proportionate. I think, 
given what Amigo knew about Mr Ms sources of income, and his past credit history, it would 
have been right for Amigo to independently verify the true state of Mr Ms finances before 
agreeing the loan. Had Amigo done those checks I think it would have seen that Mr Ms 
finances were under significant pressure. 
Mr M has told us, and his bank statements clearly evidence, that he was spending significant 
sums each month on online gambling activities. I agree with Amigos conclusion that 
evidence would have meant that it shouldnt have lent to Mr M. So I think that Amigo needs 
to put things right, and how that should be done is what I need to consider in this final 
decision.
As I said earlier Amigo has already paid Mr M some compensation in relation to loan 2. The 
information I have about how that compensation was calculated is limited. So, whilst I have 
no reason to doubt Amigos calculations, I cannot confidently conclude that it is in line with 
what I would recommend. So I will include loan 2 in the redress I am requiring Amigo to pay, 
although I will obviously direct that Amigo can take account of the compensation it has paid 
when it makes its final calculations. 
The dispute that still remains with the compensation is whether it is reasonable for Amigo to 
use the refund it is offering in relation to loan 1 to offset the money that Mr M still owes in 
relation to loan 2. Generally I consider that it is fair and reasonable that a consumer should 
repay the principal that they have borrowed, and had the benefit of, on a loan. And I havent 
seen anything to make me think that shouldnt apply here. Loan 2 was taken very shortly 
after loan 1 had been repaid. I dont think there was sufficient gap between the two loans for 
me to consider Mr Ms relationship with Amigo to have been in two parts. It seems to me that 
it was one continuous relationship. And so I think it is reasonable that any compensation 
being paid in relation to loan 1 should be available for Amigo to use to reduce the 
outstanding balance on loan 2.
Putting things right
I dont think Amigo should have lent to Mr M in February or June 2018. So, to put things right 
Amigo should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr M paid on loan 1 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat all the 
payments Mr M made towards this loan as payments towards the capital. Amigo may 
however take account of the refund that it has paid to Mr M when assessing the 
value of the payments he has made.
if reworking Mr Ms loan account as Ive directed results in Mr M effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Amigo should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ms loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Amigo can use the total refund for loan 1 (after the deduction of tax) to offset this. 
And if there still remains an outstanding capital balance then I remind Amigo that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr M
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loans
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Amigo to take off tax from this interest. Amigo must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Amigo Loans Ltd to put things 
right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman