DRN-2033083
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service provided by Automobile Association Insurance Services 
Limited when he tried to make a change to his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M bought the policy online in December 2019 and it was administered by AA. He called 
AA on 21 January 2020 as his previous car had broken down and he needed to insure the 
one hed just bought immediately. The advisor took the registration details from Mr M but 
said the system (which was linked to the DVLA) wasnt bringing up any record of the car. He 
provided further details of the car to her and the advisor entered them into the system. 
The advisor then told Mr M that his current insurer wasnt offering to cover the new car. She 
said she could ask it for a reason, but that it would take at least 24 hours to get a response. 
She also offered to look for another quote from an insurer on AAs panel. The cheapest one 
was £1,500. As Mr Ms current policy cost around £400 for a similar car, he decided to 
cancel the policy and look elsewhere for cover. Mr M said he had no problem getting it, and 
for a reasonable price. But he was charged over £90 for the cancellation, plus £12 for 
cancelling his direct debit payment, and he didnt think AA dealt with his complaint properly. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think it was AAs fault that his 
cars details didnt come up on the system, or that his insurer didnt quote for the new car. 
She thought AA tried to be helpful in looking for another quote, but it had no control over the 
sum other insurers on its panel quoted for cover. She noted that part of the charge made by 
AA was for time on cover with the insurer. She thought that sum, and the cancellation 
charges, were fair. And she said AA had written-off the direct debit charge of £12.
Mr M said hed been penalised, although hed done nothing wrong. And he said AAs system 
should have worked better, as that had caused the problem. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AA doesnt know why its system didnt bring up the relevant details of Mr Ms new car when 
the registration was entered. It thinks there may have been a problem with the DVLAs 
system at that point. Its also possible that the difference between the year of the cars 
manufacture and the year it was registered with the DVLA caused a problem. I think that 
seems less likely, if other insurers didnt have the same problem. But the advisor was able to 
complete the task manually anyway, which allowed her to get quotes for the new car. 
It must have been very frustrating for Mr M to have to provide all the cars details, when he 
didnt expect to have to do that. But in my opinion, theres no way of showing that AAs 
system was at fault. AA says it checked that there wasnt a system problem. Had there been 
one, its bound to have affected other consumers at the time, so it would have been 
apparent. I think AA would have attended to any problem with the system as a matter of 
urgency, as any glitch may well have led to a loss of business. But In any event, I dont 
think it was having to enter the cars details manually that caused the other problems. 
In my opinion, the major issue was that Mr Ms insurer didnt want to quote for the new car. 
That isnt something AA can be held responsible for. The advisor offered to refer the matter 
to the insurer to see if it would give a reason, but as Mr M needed insurance straight away, I 
can see why he couldnt wait at least 24 hours for that to happen. All the advisor could do at 
that point was to check if other insurers on the panel would quote. I dont think AA is to 
blame for the fact that the cheapest available quote from another insurer was so expensive.
I can see why Mr M felt he had no option but to cancel the policy and look elsewhere for 
cover, but I dont think that was AAs fault. I think what caused it was the refusal of his 
current insurer to cover the new car and the absence of a competitive quote from another 
insurer on AAs panel. 
Once Mr M decided to cancel, AA had to charge for the time on cover Mr M hadnt yet paid 
for - plus the standard cancellation fees. The insurer had provided cover for 42 days, but as 
Mr M was paying in instalments, hed only paid a £36.82 deposit. AA has provided a 
breakdown of the charges it made, which are in line with those set out in the documents 
provided online before the policy was bought. We dont think its unfair to charge an 
arrangement fee or to make a reasonable cancellation charge, as theres work involved in 
administering a policy and also in cancelling it. As Mr M cancelled his direct debit payments, 
AA was entitled to charge a £12 fee - and to waive it at its discretion. 
I dont think Mr M can show that AA acted unreasonably. It accepted that one of its advisors 
didnt manage his expectations when he called to make a complaint. It said feedback had 
been provided to that advisor. I think that was a reasonable way to deal with the issue. I 
think AAs service in other respects was of an appropriate standard. I can see why Mr M 
thinks AA provided poor service, as he did nothing wrong, yet he still lost out financially and 
was inconvenienced. But had his insurer quoted to cover the new car, for a reasonable sum, 
I dont think this complaint would have arisen. 
As I dont think theres evidence that AA did anything wrong, I cant uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I must ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman