DRN-2941522
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the quality of repairs Skyfire Insurance Company Limited 
completed in connection with her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Skyfire includes its agents.
What happened
Miss S was in an accident that wasn't her fault when another vehicle ran into the back of her 
car. Skyfire arranged for one of its approved repairers to fix the car. Miss S wasn't happy 
with the quality of those repairs. She raised some specific issues which involved the cars 
handling, including:
1) pulling to the left
2) pulling to the left when braking
3) multiple warning lights on the dash
4) poor fitting right rear light
5) inner tailgate trim not replaced
Skyfire arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. He noted that the car had 
been a previous Category S total loss. That means it had suffered significant structural 
damage in an earlier accident which had rendered the car uneconomical to repair. He said 
that issues number 1 to 4 above were all caused by previous poor repairs and not by the 
recent repairs Skyfire arranged. He added that the approved repairer had ordered the 
missing trim and would replace it when the part arrived. He also said that the approved 
repairer had agreed to balance the wheels as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss S brought her complaint to us. In particular she remained concerned about the cars 
warning light and the rear light fitment. One of our investigators looked into it. She said she 
didn't think Skyfire had done anything wrong. However, she noted Miss S had raised some 
other repair issues concerning the cars rear panel and spoiler, which were associated with 
Skyfires repairs, and asked it to respond to Miss S on those points.
Miss S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So its 
been passed to me to decide.
I made some enquiries of Skyfire. In particular about how it had responded to Miss S 
complaint about the points she raised with our investigator and how it had responded to 
those. However, Skyfire didn't give me any detail or evidence about what it had done in 
response to those additional concerns of Miss S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Miss S was particularly upset that, prior to the accident her car wasn't displaying warning 
lights about its airbags, but it was doing so after the accident; so she said the two must be 
related. In other words she thinks the accident had caused the warning lights to come on 
and as such Skyfire should arrange the appropriate repairs. Further, given the accident 
wasn't her fault, she thinks Skyfire should have been able to recover the cost of those 
repairs from the other drivers insurer. 
While I can understand Miss S position, in the specific circumstances of this case I don't 
think it would be fair for Skyfire to fix the issue causing the air bag warning lights to display. 
That's because it appears that the underlying issue was present on the car before the 
accident.
Miss S bought her car in a private sale. And she wasn't aware, until after the accident, that 
her car had been a former total loss. In other words she didn't know it had previously been 
so badly damaged that a prior owners insurer decided not to repair it. Instead someone else 
had repaired it and put it back on the road. Miss S had then bought it without any knowledge 
of the earlier repairs.
But, when Skyfires approved repairer came to examine the car they found clear evidence of 
shoddy repairs to a number of areas on the car including the wiring loom; with some wiring 
having been tied off with bits of tape. And, even to the untrained eye, its apparent that the 
wiring hasn't been professionally repaired. 
I accept Miss S account that the airbag warning lights weren't displaying before the 
accident. But I don't think that means Miss S accident was the principal cause of this issue. 
And Miss S hasn't provided evidence, from a suitably qualified individual, that the accident 
was the cause of the lights coming on. In contrast the independent engineer that inspected 
the repairs was plainly of the opinion that it was the poor standard of previous repairs to the 
wiring loom that was the cause of the issue, rather than Miss S accident or because of 
anything Skyfire had done. 
So, if I were to instruct Skyfire to fix the issue now, that would mean it would be undoing the 
poor repairs and reworking this to an acceptable standard. That would mean that Skyfire 
would essentially be putting Miss S into a better position than she was before the accident. 
Thats because Skyfire would have to rework the wiring loom professionally, whereas what 
was done beforehand would seem to be a rather amateur job.
Further, even though Skyfire could, potentially, try to recover those costs from the third 
partys insurers, I don't think it would be fair to do so. Thats because Skyfire would 
essentially be asking the third party insurer to repair work which was caused by a previous 
accident that the third party policyholder hadn't been involved in. And an accident for which 
another insurer had - most likely - already settled a claim for the total loss of the car. I don't 
think that would be fair. And I think the third party insurer would have legitimate cause to 
question why it was being asked to pay for repairs to damage that wasn't caused by its 
policyholder.
Miss S also raised concerns about the fitment of the rear light. But this was something that 
the independent engineer also considered was caused by poor previous repairs. Miss S 
thinks it was associated with Skyfires repair but she hasn't provided any expert evidence to 
support her view. So I'm more persuaded by the evidence of the independent engineer that 
this issue related to previous repairs. 
For completeness Ill add that while our investigator was looking into the complaint Miss S 
also raised some other, what she referred to as cosmetic issues; for example concerning her cars rear spoiler. Our investigator did ask Skyfire to look into these issues and forwarded 
some images Miss S had taken of her car to Skyfire. But, as far as I can tell, to date Skyfire 
hasn't addressed those points. So, I don't think it would be fair for me to comment on those 
matters here. However, if she wishes to do so Miss S may raise those issues as a separate 
complaint with Skyfire. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman