DRN-2774539
The complaint
Mr O complained about the time it took for Phoenix Life Assurance Limited to tell him where 
his pension had been transferred to.
What happened
In 1988 Mr O was advised to transfer his occupational pension to a personal pension with 
Pearl (now Phoenix). In May 1993 the pension was transferred away from Pearl to another 
business (who Ill refer to as S). In May 1994 it was transferred from S to another business 
(who Ill refer to as F).
Throughout 2017 and 2018 Phoenix received four requests for information about Mr Os 
pension:
Mr O asked why he wasnt contacted when he turned 65, how much was in his pension 
pot and what pension was due
Mr Os solicitor asked for details about the policy
The Pensions Advisory Service asked for help in tracing what happened to Mr Os 
pension benefits and for Phoenix to confirm what benefits, if any, that Mr O had with it
Mr O wrote again trying to find out what happened to his pension.
On all four occasions Phoenix replied and said that the policy was transferred from Pearl in 
1993 so it was no longer in force and/or that no benefits remain.
Mr Os new solicitor wrote to Phoenix in late 2018. It pointed out that over the years S had 
become part of Phoenix, so it asked for a detailed explanation of what happened to Mr Os 
policy and pension funds. Phoenix again confirmed that the policy was transferred to S and 
that no benefits remain with it.
Mr Os MP later wrote to Phoenix. Phoenix confirmed to the MP what it had previously said 
about the policy being transferred to S in 1993. But it also now said that according to its 
records Mr O decided in 1994 to transfer the policy to F. It said it wasnt able to confirm what 
happened to Mr Os policy/funds after that as it didnt administer Fs policies.
Our investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld and that Phoenix should pay 
Mr O £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. In summary, he felt Phoenix 
hadnt given the full picture of what had happened in its initial responses to Mr O and his 
representatives. It wasnt until its response to Mr Os new solicitor that Phoenix provided Ss 
address; and it wasnt until its response to Mr Os MP that it referred to the policy being 
transferred from S to F. On the other hand, our investigator recognised that Mr O and/or his 
representatives could have found Ss contact details themselves.
Our investigator didnt think there were grounds to ask Phoenix to reimburse Mr O for his 
solicitors costs.
Phoenix accepted our investigators conclusion but Mr O didnt. He didnt think £200 
sufficiently compensated him for the stress over the years and he felt he was out of pocket 
given what hed paid his solicitor. He said if Phoenix had given the information about the 
policy being transferred to F earlier than it did hed have avoided the stress and costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues for me to determine are whether Phoenix treated Mr O unfairly and, if so, what it 
now needs to do to put matters right.
It seems to me from what Ive seen that the information on its records showing the transfer 
from S to F in 1994 was available to Phoenix from the outset. I take from that either that 
Phoenix didnt initially look hard enough for the information, or it found the information but 
didnt deem it necessary to pass it on to Mr O. Either way, although the information Phoenix 
provided to Mr O and his representatives was correct, I agree with our investigator that it 
didnt give a full picture as to what happened.
Had a full picture been given early on, Mr O would have had the information he needed in 
order to contact F about his pension, which means that he (and his representatives) wouldnt 
have needed to continually contact Phoenix.
Having said that, Phoenix clearly made Mr O and his representatives aware that the policy 
had been transferred to S in 1993. If Mr O/his representatives contacted S  and its not 
clear to me why they didnt  I think its most likely that S would have been able to confirm 
that the policy had been transferred to F. So Im not persuaded that Phoenix is totally 
responsible for the distress or inconvenience Mr O suffered.
Its also the case that Phoenix has no business relationship with F, so Phoenix isnt 
responsible if F failed to contact Mr O when he turned 65.
Putting things right
Although various other parties were involved, I think its fair to conclude that Phoenix not 
providing Mr O with full information contributed to the distress and inconvenience he suffered 
in trying to ascertain where his pension was.
I think the £200 suggested by our investigator is fair compensation for this.
I dont think there are grounds for me to require Phoenix to contribute towards Mr Os 
solicitors costs. I usually only consider this if I think a consumer had no other option other 
than to appoint a solicitor. I dont think that was the case here. I think there were other 
options available to Mr O  eg contacting S himself (as outlined above) or using free 
services such as ourselves to log a complaint.
I also dont think the relationship between Mr O and Phoenix had completely broken down to 
the extent that communication via a solicitor was the only viable option.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Phoenix Life Assurance Limited to pay Mr O £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before xxxx June 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman