DRN-2411113
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a motor insurance 
policy.
Reference to Ageas includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs W had an existing Ageas policy (policy 1). She took out a second policy (policy 2) for 
another car. But she couldn't access the details online. She phoned for advice and was told 
she couldn't use the same email address for two accounts . So she changed the email 
address on policy 2 to her husbands email address.
Around three weeks later Mrs Ws husband, who was a named driver on policy 2, was 
stopped by police for driving while uninsured. Mrs W contacted Ageas who told her it had 
cancelled policy 2 because she hadn't provided proof of her no claims discount (NCD) as it 
asked her to.
Mrs W complained about both Ageas and the intermediary which acted as its agent. The 
intermediary replied on behalf of itself and Ageas. It acknowledged some mistakes and 
offered Mrs W £100 compensation in total for the impact of those. It also refunded all costs 
of the second policy, save for a charge for the time the policy was in place.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us. After shed done so Ageas said it had made a mistake 
when cancelling policy 2. To put things right it offered Mrs W a refund of £62, further 
compensation of £500 and said it would provide a letter saying it had cancelled the policy in 
error. Mrs W refused that offer. Ageas later told us that it had made that offer in error and 
hadn't made any mistakes when cancelling policy 2.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 November 2020. For ease Ive copied the relevant 
extract from my provisional decision below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so its likely I won't uphold it.
When Mrs W took out policy 2 she said she had nine years NCD. Ive seen screen shots of 
the online journey Mrs W went through in order to take out that policy. And at the completion 
of that the system asked her to send proof of her NCD. And it confirmed that the NCD must 
be earned on a second car and not be used on another car. Also in the welcome pack 
uploaded to Mrs Ws online account, Ageas asked Mrs W for NCD proof. Mrs W disputes 
this but I've seen evidence that it was included within the information Ageas provided online 
and which Mrs W viewed that day. Later letters were sent both to Mrs Ws home address 
and to her husbands email address, advising that the NCD proof was outstanding.
I understand Mrs W didn't receive the letters posted to her home even though Ageas 
addressed those letters correctly. And she didn't check her husbands email address. But 
theres no evidence Ageas did anything wrong. And as Mrs W had given her husband's 
email address as a contact address for the policy, I don't think Ageas did anything wrong in 
sending its request for NCD proof to that email address.
Mrs W didn't send Ageas NCD proof and it warned her it would cancel her policy if she didn't 
do so. Mrs W didn't receive that letter either and Ageas cancelled her policy. And while it's 
certainly very unfortunate for Mrs W that she didn't receive the correspondence warning that 
the policy might be cancelled, I don't think that's because of any mistakes on Ageas part. So 
I think it was reasonable for Ageas to cancel the policy.
Mrs W said Ageas told her in its response to her complaint that she didn't need to provide 
proof of her NCD. But I can't find any supporting evidence it said that. It did say its call 
handler had no need to discuss NCD proof with her when she called on the first occasion. 
But Ive seen nothing to suggest it told her the NCD proof wasnt required.
Mrs W added that she shouldn't have needed to provide proof of her NCD because Ageas 
was already aware of it. Thats because it insured her other car on policy 1. But NCD can 
only be used on one car at a time. And as Mrs W was using her NCD on policy 1, she 
couldn't have also used it on policy 2. It follows that she would have had to provide separate 
proof of NCD for a second car. So, the information Ageas already held wouldn't have been 
proof of the NCD on her new car. But Mrs W didnt ever provide proof of NCD on a second 
car. And as Ive said above I think it was reasonable for Ageas to cancel her policy in the 
circumstances. So I don't think it needs to take any further action to put things right.
However, when Ageas responded to our request for its file it seems it made an error at that 
point. It told us it had made a mistake cancelling policy 2 and made an offer to put things 
right. But, after Mrs W rejected that offer, Ageas realised it hadn't made any mistake in 
cancelling policy 2 after all. And it told us its offer of further compensation was based on a 
misunderstanding of the evidence and again defended its original position. In the 
circumstances, as I don't think it did make an error cancelling the policy, I don't find its 
position unreasonable. And I should be clear that Ageas made its mistaken offer for further 
compensation independently and before wed considered the complaint. So it didn't make its
offer on the back of any investigation or recommendation from this service.
For completeness Mrs W also complained that, before cancelling the policy, Ageas had 
charged her an additional premium. It did so because it said she told it about a non-fault 
claim that should have been recorded as a fault claim when applying for policy 2. And, in 
other circumstances I would have said it wouldn't have been fair for Ageas to simply impose 
an additional premium in the manner that it did. But as Ageas has since refunded all costs 
associated with the cancelled policy, save for a charge for Mrs Ws time on cover at the 
original premium, I don't think shes out of pocket a result of that. So I don't think it needs to
take any further action.
Neither Mrs W nor Ageas provided any comment on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs W nor Ageas has objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman