DRN-1024789
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the service given to him by Santander UK plc in regard to his 
current account. 
What happened
Mr M wanted to change his name on his bank account. He called Santander on two separate 
occasions and was told both times that to change his name on the account he would need to 
go to a branch with two forms of identification. When Mr M went to the branch he was told it 
wasnt possible and he would need to bring in a legal document which had on it the exact 
name he wanted his account changed to.
Mr M was very unhappy about this and felt that he had wasted his time and effort in going to 
the branch. He called customer services from the branch and spent a significant amount of 
on the phone to them there. Later that day, a customer services manager called Mr M back 
and offered him £50 to compensate him for the inconvenience and embarrassment caused 
to him by the incorrect information the bank representatives had provided. 
Mr M was unhappy with that outcome and escalated the matter to Santanders complaints 
team. He was then unhappy about the way he was dealt with by various members of the 
complaints team, including the fact that he didnt get a call back from his case handler when 
he had been promised one by another agent. 
Having reviewed the case in full, Santander apologised for the initial incorrect information. 
And they apologised that he didnt get a call back as expected. They credited a further £70 
to his account, making a total of £120 paid by Santander in compensation.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service because he didnt think the compensation was 
sufficient for the way he had been treated. Our investigator looked at the case and decided 
that Santanders offer of compensation was fair and reasonable for what had happened. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome so he asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. Mr M asked for the ombudsman to call him before writing a decision so I have 
spoken with Mr M.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided that the compensation Santander offered is fair and reasonable and they dont 
need to offer any more to Mr M  Ill explain why. Ive made my decision by thinking about 
what Santander has done wrong in this situation  and then considering the impact it has 
had on Mr M. 
Santander have apologised to Mr M for giving him incorrect information about how to change 
his name, and for the actions of some of their complaint handling team. So I dont think theres any doubt that they got something wrong here. The key question is about whether 
the bank needs to do anything more to address that.
I can see that Mr M went to the branch to change his name because thats what he was told 
he needed to do. He told me that he spent well over an hour in the branch, with his wife and 
child. So I think he has been inconvenienced by making a trip to a branch which didnt 
achieve what he wanted and took a long time. 
Mr M has also said that he felt embarrassed and humiliated because of not having the right 
documents with him when he went into the branch to change his name. He says everyone 
was looking at him and he felt like they thought he was an idiot. 
I can tell from the number of calls he made to Santander and the nature of those calls that 
Mr M was very upset by the incident. But I think Santander have tried to recognise that, by 
offering its apologies and a payment of compensation. In my view, the compensation 
Santander have paid to Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I dont think 
they need to do any more.
My final decision
Santander UK plc has already paid £120 to Mr M to settle the complaint and I think this is fair 
in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Santander dont need to do anything else to 
settle the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman