DRN-3301318
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the interest Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
charged her when she settled her loan early. She also says it acted irresponsibly by granting 
her a loan that was unaffordable for her.
What happened
In late 2021, Mrs M took out a loan with Madison for £5,000. The loan was to be repaid over 
24 months. It had an APR of 79.9% which meant that the total amount payable was 
£8,811.36.
Mrs M says that shortly after she took the loan out, she realised it was unaffordable. She 
requested a settlement figure 19 days after taking out the loan and was shocked to be told 
that she would need to pay £633 in interest.
Mrs M complained to Madison. She didnt think it had given her clear information about the 
interest it would charge for settling the loan early. Madison said the settlement figure it had 
given Mrs M was correct. It was in line with the terms of her agreement and with the relevant 
legislation. It said the full settlement figure included 58 days interest that was applicable 
when settling the loan early and this was covered in the loan documents. 
Mrs M remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. She said she was 
also complaining that the loan was unaffordable. She said that if Madison had done proper 
checks it would have seen that she had gambling transactions and the loan was 
unaffordable. She said that as a result, shed had to apply for an alternative loan to pay this 
one off which had put her in a worse situation. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms concerns and didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that Madison had given Mrs M clear information about the early 
settlement terms. He didnt think the figure Madison had given Mrs M was incorrect. Our 
investigator also didnt think Madisons lending decision was irresponsible.
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view. She said shed had to borrow more money to 
settle the loan as the interest and monthly instalments were causing her financial hardship. 
She didnt think Madisons checks were sufficient as it hadnt seen her gambling 
transactions. She also didnt agree that Madison had made it clear that she would be 
charged 58 days worth of interest. 
Mrs M said shed had to take out payday loans to pay the £633 interest. She said Madisons 
actions had forced her into a debt management plan and had also had a negative impact on 
her mental health.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Early settlement
Ive reviewed the documents Mrs M was provided with when she applied for the loan online. 
The loan agreement clearly sets out the amount of credit, the duration of the loan, the total 
charge for credit, the total amount payable and the APR of 79.9%.
It shows that the total charge for credit on the £5,000 loan was £3,811.36 resulting in a 
total amount payable of £8,811.36.
The loan agreement also says what would happen in the event of early repayment and 
includes the wording:
If You notify Us of Your intention to repay in full early, We will provide You with a settlement 
amount quotation which is valid for 28 days beginning with the day after the day on which 
We receive Your notice. We may charge You interest on the amount that You pay early. The 
amount of interest We may charge You will be up to 28 days interest unless Your loan term 
is for a period of more than 12 months, in which case We may charge You up to 58 days 
interest on the amount that You repay early.
From what both parties have said, I understand Mrs M asked Madison for a settlement figure 
19 days after she took out the loan. This was before any payments were due.
Madison has calculated the settlement figure as follows:
£8,811.36 (amount repayable) - £3,177.99 = £5,633.37.
Madison says the settlement figure took into account the 58 days interest that was 
applicable when settling the account early. 
Mrs M says the wording on the agreement was unclear because it says: We may charge 
You up to 58 days interest rather than We will charge You up to 58 days interest.... 
She says her understanding was that Madison couldnt possibly charge her more interest 
than the 19 days shed had the loan for. 
While the term says Madison may apply the interest, Im not persuaded that it precludes 
them from applying it. Rather it allows Madison to exercise discretion not to apply it if it 
thinks its appropriate in the circumstances. I think the wording in the agreement is 
sufficiently clear that Madison could charge 58 days interest on the amount that was being 
repaid early. So, I cant say it was unfair for Madison to have applied this interest. 
I appreciate that Mrs M wasnt expecting to pay so much interest on a loan shed had for 
only a few weeks. But the settlement figure appears to have been calculated correctly and in 
line with the agreement signed by Mrs M. 
Lending decision
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Madison to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mrs M could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner.  The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Madison to think only about 
the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Mrs M undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for her.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Madison gathered information from Mrs M before it agreed the loan and also checked her 
credit file. On her application, Mrs M said she was taking out the loan to consolidate 
borrowing. She said her income was £3,419 a month. She was a homeowner with a 
mortgage of £639 a month. She said her unsecured credit was £1,392 a month and her 
other outgoings were £721.41 a month.
Madison has provided a copy of Mrs Ms credit report which shows she had a joint mortgage 
with repayments of £1,278 a month. I think it was reasonable for Madison to have used the 
figure of £639 Mrs M had given on her application in its affordability calculation as this was 
half of the full amount of her joint mortgage.
 
The credit report suggested that Mrs Ms credit commitments were higher than what shed 
specified on the application form. I think this was because a loan Mrs M had settled a couple 
of weeks before was still showing on there. The monthly repayment for this was £798.
The credit report showed Mrs M was committed to repayments of £53 a month for another 
loan and £221 a month for a hire purchase agreement. She had a credit card balance of 
£5,294 and an overdraft of £1,854. 
After taking into account Mrs Ms existing credit commitments (including the loan shed 
already paid off), the outgoings declared on her application and the repayments for the 
Madison loan (£367.14), Mrs M would have been left with a disposable income of around 
£300 a month. So, even without taking into consideration, Mrs Ms intention to use the loan 
to consolidate some of her existing debt, I think it was reasonable for Madison to have 
concluded the lending was affordable.
Theres nothing else on Mrs Ms credit file that I think should have given Madison cause for 
concern. She appeared to be up to date with her repayments on her other commitments, and 
there were no recent defaults or county court judgments.
I appreciate Mrs M feels that if Madison had done more thorough checks, it would have seen 
shed made gambling transactions. But Madison could only make its decision based on 
information it had available at the time. And I dont think proportionate checks would have 
extended to Madison asking Mrs M to provide it with her bank statements. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs M. But having considered everything, I think 
Madisons checks were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. And these 
suggested the loan was affordable. So, I dont think Madison acted irresponsibly when it 
granted Mrs M the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman