DRN-2752655
The complaint
Mr H complains about how he has been dealt with by Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money following a number of e-mails, he sent it.
What happened
Mr H says he sent Virgin Money a number of e-mails that were unanswered. He complains 
about Virgin Moneys customer service and says he didnt receive log in details to access his 
accounts.
Virgin Money says Mr H held two accounts that have been changed to Virgin Money 
accounts. It has apologised for not being clearer in its communication with Mr H and says it 
has provided a telephone number for Mr H to use to reinstate the accounts if he wishes.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and says he has not been able to utilise his savings 
allowance due the delay and problems. Our investigator upheld the complaint and thought 
Mr H had been caused inconvenience by the poor communication and recommended Virgin 
Money pay £50 compensation.
Virgin Money has said it will pay the compensation, but Mr H says he doesnt use a 
telephone and so cant access the money via his Virgin Money accounts as they need to be 
reinstated. He would like a cheque or cash. Virgin Money says it cant send a cheque at 
present and would not send cash.
The case has been referred to me as Mr H says there isnt a local Virgin Money branch that 
he can use a telephone from or attend and questions why Virgin Money would offer a 
solution that is against present travel guidance. He says the money could be paid to his 
credit card account, but Virgin says that is not possible.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no real dispute here that Virgin Money didnt deal appropriately with Mr H and didnt 
understand his complaint or answer his e-mails. There is no real need for me to repeat what 
is said as both sides have agreed that the compensation of £50 recommended by the 
investigator is fair and reasonable. I make clear that I agree that Mr H was caused 
inconvenience and that £50 compensation is fair and reasonable.
The key issue is how that money should be paid. I can see that at present Virgin Money says 
it cant send Mr H a cheque but could pay the money into one of his Virgin Money accounts. 
The problem with that is that Mr H would need to contact Virgin Money to reactivate the 
account and he says he doesnt have a telephone. I can see that the investigator has 
explained that Mr H could attend a local branch, but Mr H says there isnt one that is close to 
him. 
I can see that Mr H has told us that he wanted to open a savings account and may have lost 
out on the offered interest rate. I think on balance that suggests he has an open savings 
account or an open bank account. And I think it likely that Mr H does have an open current 
account that could be used to pay the compensation into.
So, I think if Mr H is prepared to provide his main bank account details to Virgin Money then 
there is no reason why the £50 compensation cant be paid into that account. If Mr H doesnt 
have any other bank accounts and doesnt have the option of using a third partys account, 
then I think he will have to wait until Virgin Money is able to send him a cheque but of course 
that cheque will need to be paid into an account at some stage.
Putting things right
I intend to order Virgin Money to pay the £50 compensation and hope Mr H will provide 
either us or Virgin Money with his main current account details so that payment can be 
made.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to pay Mr H £50 compensation. Mr Hs acceptance of this decision would be in 
full and final settlement of this complaint. The payment should be made into Mr Hs account 
that he provides details of or by cheque when that can be achieved.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman