DRN-3415805
The complaint
Miss E complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled her claim on her
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include its approved repairer (AR) and others insofar as I hold
Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a premium-brand convertible car with a
diesel engine and an automatic gearbox.
Miss E acquired the car from new in late September or early October 2020. She has
mentioned that she was making monthly payments for it.
For the year from early October 2020, Miss E had the car insured with Admiral. The premium
for the year was about £550.00.
Unfortunately, Miss E reported that, in heavy rain on 23 December 2020, shed skidded off
the road into some surface water running off a field. Her car had little, if any, visible damage.
But it wouldnt re-start and had to be recovered.
Admiral sent the car to its AR. In early January 2021, Miss E complained to Admiral that it
hadnt provided a courtesy car. Admiral agreed to provide Miss E with a hire car. It also paid
£30.00 for loss of use and £20.00 to apologise for the delays.
Miss E got her car back on about 15 March 2021. Later that year, Miss E became pregnant.
From about 23 August 2021, she had some issues with the gearbox of her car. On 27 
August 2021, Miss E took the car to the main dealer franchised by the car maker in the West
Midlands. That main dealer told her that  notwithstanding the repair earlier in the year - the
car still needed a new transmission, torque converter and oil cooler.
Miss E complained to Admiral. After a few days, Admiral provided Miss E with a hire car.
Later it provided a larger hire car.
By a letter dated 22 September 2021, Admiral told Miss E that, after her complaint, it hadnt
been able to send a final response within eight weeks, so she had a right to bring her
complaint to us. On about 24 September 2021, Admiral got a vehicle assessor to inspect the
car.
Miss E brought her complaint to us in October 2021. At that time, she complained that
Admiral hadnt told her the outcome of the inspection. And she had acquired a new car for
her and her baby, so she was making monthly payments on both vehicles.
Admiral wrote a final response dated 11 November 2021. It agreed to replace the gearbox
and apologised for shortcomings in its communication. Admiral offered Miss E £150.00 for
the distress and inconvenience the situation had caused. Admiral also offered £30.00 for any
fuel used to travel to the main dealer in the West Midlands. For not being able to use her car
for the five days between 27 and 31 August 2021, Admiral offered a further £50.00. In total
Admiral sent Miss E a cheque for £230.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that
Admiral was responsible for delay and poor communication. He recommended that Admiral
should pay Miss E  in addition to its previous payments - a further £150.00 to make a total
of £300.00 for distress and inconvenience.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss E 
and to Admiral on 8 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
The poor communication was for two spells amounting to several months. Miss E 
was pregnant during the second spell in the autumn of 2021. She was troubled by 
the thought that Admiral had put her and her unborn baby at risk.
Subject to any further information from Miss E or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to 
pay Miss E, in addition to the £150.00 it has already paid for distress and inconvenience  a 
further £350.00 to make a total of £500.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Neither Miss E nor Admiral has added any further information in response to the provisional 
decision. So I see no reason to change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, neither Miss E nor Admiral has provided telephone call recordings. But I dont
consider that it would be proportionate or fair to incur delay in trying to find recordings at this
stage.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules (DISP). We look at an individual consumers complaint against an
insurance company or other regulated financial firm in relation to regulated financial
activities. Where we find a firm responsible for an incorrect act or omission, we try to put that
right by directing the firm to pay compensation or to make other redress to the consumer.
In assessing fair compensation, we look at the impact of such act or omission on the
consumer. That may include financial loss or non-financial loss including distress and
inconvenience. We look at the actual impact, but that includes distress at the thought of what
mightve happened.
We dont direct compensation at a level intended as a penalty or as a deterrent for an
incorrect act or omission.
In our final decision, we identify the financial firm, but we anonymise details that might
identify any other company or individual.
From what shes said, Miss E got the car from the main dealer franchised by the car makerin the East Midlands.
Admirals policy terms included the following:
Our approved repairers, or another company instructed by Admiral will:
arrange collection and re-delivery of your vehicle
give you a courtesy car while your vehicle is being repaired.
All repairs carried out by our approved repairers are guaranteed for as long as you
own the vehicle. Any parts used during the repair are covered under the
manufacturers guarantee. In the unlikely event the repairs are considered
unsatisfactory, the approved repairer will have the option to rectify their work. Should
the repairs still be considered unsatisfactory, you may use another repairer providing
we agree for the work to be carried out.

The courtesy car is not intended to be a like for like replacement for your vehicle. It
will typically be a small hatchback.
Miss E hoped to get her car repaired early in January 2021. She was paying monthly
instalments for it, I think on a personal contract plan (PCP).
After a few days delay for which it paid compensation, Admiral provided a replacement
vehicle. Whilst it wasnt as good as her car, Im satisfied that it was in line with the policy
terms.
Miss E didnt get her car back until mid-March 2021. That seems a long time.
But I find it likely that the car had serious water damage. And I havent seen details of what
work or parts the car needed. So - in the absence of an engineers evidence that the repair
shouldve been quicker  I cant hold Admiral responsible for delay up to mid-March 2021.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Miss E compensation for the
time she was without her convertible.
Admirals file includes the following note:
AR advised the gearbox oil was replaced and now works perfect but the
management light was still on and the electrician could not switch it off.
AR drove vehicle to [main] dealer & they advised vehicle needs new gearbox even
though AR advised gearbox works perfectly
[Main dealer] investigated further replaced the gearbox control units saving a new
gearbox PH has now complained that gears keep slipping and has taken it to a
different MD and was advised its due to seal not being fitted correctly & this may
have caused additional damage.
I note that  unusually  the complaint form is dated before the final response. Miss Es
complaint form included words quoted from an email from the West Midlands franchised
main dealer to Admiral as follows:
This vehicle required a new transmission, torque converter and oil cooler in
February 2021 and was reported at the time by [main dealer East Midlands]. This
work was not carried out and will require doing so to complete the repairs."
And Admiral had seen that allegation when it wrote its final response including the following:
In order to investigate, we instructed an Independent Assessor who confirmed he
has authorised the main dealer [West Midlands] to remove the gearbox. The gearboxand torque convertor have been removed. The main dealer confirmed there is no
visible damage to the gearbox. The Assessor commented the internal gearbox sump
electrical module and gearbox oil were replaced as part of the claim under notice.
However, as a fault with the gearbox fault still remains the Assessor is of the opinion
that the gearbox should be replaced supplementary to the claim under notice as
suggested previously by [car maker] of [East Midlands].
So I find it likely that Admiral or its AR had led Miss E to believe that the main dealer in the
East Midlands had signed off the repair in early 2021. Im satisfied that the main dealer had
been involved. And I find that it had initially suggested the need for a new gearbox  which I
consider has proved correct with the benefit of hindsight.
But the main dealer replaced the gearbox control units in about February 2021. According to
Admirals note, this was done after further investigation by the main dealer. And I havent
seen enough evidence to support Miss Es belief that the main dealer had maintained in
February 2021 that the car should have a replacement gearbox, but Admiral thought
otherwise.
From what Miss E has said, she used her car without any gearbox problem between mid-
March and late August 2021.
I dont under-estimate her alarm at the car stalling - especially at a junction. But I dont find
that Admiral had knowingly left Miss E and her unborn baby at risk by not having replaced
the gearbox in February 2021.
Over the August bank holiday, there was a delay in providing a replacement vehicle. I hold
Admiral responsible for that. But it later paid compensation at a rate of £10.00 per day, which
I find fair and reasonable.
The replacement vehicles werent as good as Miss Es car. And she wanted a bigger car as
her pregnancy progressed.
Miss E was still paying for the convertible but was unable to sell it while it was under
investigation and repair. She hasnt said exactly when she acquired a second vehicle, but I
think it was before she brought her complaint to us in October 2021.
From what Ive seen, the repair (and the replacement hire vehicle) continued into November
2021. Again that seems like a long time. But in the absence of an engineers evidence that
the investigation and repair shouldve been quicker, I cant hold Admiral responsible for
delay in the autumn of 2021. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay
compensation for the time Miss E was again without her convertible  or for the costs of
acquiring the second vehicle.
Nevertheless  as it has acknowledged  Admiral communicated poorly with Miss E both
after the accident and in the autumn of 2021. Ive thought about the effect of that on Miss E. I
accept that she spent many hours hanging on the telephone trying to get updates. And she
felt that Admiral was ignoring her.
Putting things right
I give Admiral some credit for its payments to Miss E. But its payment of £150.00 for distress
and inconvenience wasnt enough in my view. The investigators recommendation was to
increase that to £300.00.
But I keep in mind that the poor communication was for two spells amounting to severalmonths. And Miss E was pregnant during the second spell in the autumn of 2021. She was
troubled by the thought that Admiral had put her and her unborn baby at risk. So overall I
find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Miss E, in addition to the £150.00 it has
already paid for distress and inconvenience  a further £350.00 to make a total of £500.00
for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss E, in addition to the £150.00 it has 
already paid for distress and inconvenience  a further £350.00 to make a total of £500.00 
for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman