DRN-3875994
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has refused to refund 
the money he has lost following him falling victim to a scam.
Mr B is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr B 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr B was interested in investing and found an advertisement on Facebook for a 
business called Lexington Plus (X) offering investment in cryptocurrency. Interested in the 
opportunity Mr B filled in his details on an online data capture form.
Soon after Mr B was contacted by X explaining the investment opportunities that were 
available. X explained Mr B could start by investing a small amount. X had gained Mr Bs 
trust and having seen positive reviews online Mr B decided to invest.
Mr B had never made this type of investment before, so X used the screensharing 
application AnyDesk to help Mr B setup accounts with Coinbase and Gemini. Mr B was told 
he would need to send X cryptocurrency for it to be traded.
Mr B sent two reasonably small payments from his account at another bank. Mr B also says 
he made some other small payments from his account with Halifax, but I am only able to see 
the larger payment of £20,000 on Mr Bs statements made on 16 March 2022, so that is 
what has been considered in my decision.
Mr B was told by X that by investing £20,000 he would receive a monthly income from the 
investment. X persuaded Mr B to take a loan for the £20,000 as the return would more than 
cover the repayments. Mr B agreed.
After making the payment of £20,000 Mr B did receive the first monthly income payment as 
promised, although Mr B became suspicious of X when he noticed a negative review had 
been posted online about it. 
Mr B decided to make a substantial withdrawal from the investment of £7,000 to reassure 
himself that the investment was legitimate. Unfortunately, Mr B was unable to make this 
withdrawal and all contact from X soon stopped. Mr B has not been able to recover any 
further funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr B has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr B and Halifax sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
Halifax should refund the money Mr B lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payment Mr B made
Mr B made the £20,000 payment by transfer. I have thought about whether Mr B should 
receive a refund of the payment under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. 
But the CRM code only applies when domestic payments (as the result of a scam) are sent 
to another person. Here Mr B sent the payment to an account held in his own name and the 
scam occurred when his purchased crypto was moved from that account to the scammer. 
Im satisfied the CRM Code wouldnt apply in this scenario.
Should Halifax have reasonably prevented the payment Mr B made?
Mr B has accepted he authorised the payment that was made from his account with Halifax, 
albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr B is responsible. However, 
banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering.
The payment Mr B made from his account with Halifax was for a substantial amount, 
£20,000, which I do consider to be unusual when compared with Mr Bs usual spending 
patterns. I would have expected this payment to have triggered Halifaxs fraud prevention 
systems and for it to have had a conversation with Mr B about what the payment was for.
Reassuringly Halifaxs systems did initially stop the payment Mr B was attempting to make 
and a call between Halifax and Mr B took place. 
Mr B explained his account was suspended when trying to make a payment of £20,000. 
Halifax asked Mr B several security questions and then to login to his online banking. Halifax 
also asked him where the money had come from as payments equal to £20,000 had been 
received, and Mr B confirmed they had come from a loan he had recently taken. Halifax 
asked Mr B if he had paid the business before, and he said he had but from another 
account.
Mr B says he struggles with the English language, but it is clear to me from listening to this 
call that Mr B was able to converse well in English and understood what Halifax was saying. 
So, Im persuaded Mr B understood what was said in the call.
Mr B was then passed through to the fraud prevention department and at this stage Mr B 
passed the call to his wife to continue on his behalf. Halifax asked several questions in 
relation to the payment and Mr Bs wife confirmed Mr B had paid the same business before 
from another account, it had been setup by Mr B in his own name, Mr B had taken the loan 
giving the reason of investment and Mr B was making the payment himself not taking 
instructions from anyone else.
Mr Bs wife on behalf of Mr B had not answered these questions correctly as Mr B had not 
set up the investment himself. According to his submission to us X had taken over Mr Bs 
device using AnyDesk and setup accounts for him as he had not previously made this type 
of investment. 
Mr B had also taken the loan giving the reason of improvement which was incorrect. I think 
its clear Mr B was willing to be dishonest about the reason for the loan to the lender and 
also give incorrect information about the loan to Halifax. Mr B has told us he did this on 
instruction of X.In addition, Mr Bs wife confirmed Mr B was making the payment himself and not taking 
instruction from a third party which was again incorrect as X had advised Mr B to make the 
payment.
I think its reasonable to rely on Mrs Bs answers to Halifaxs questions as he authorised her 
to speak on his behalf.
Halifax could have asked further questions when it spoke to Mr B and his wife about the 
payment he was making but I think its clear from the call above that X had built trust with 
Mr B, and he was willing to give incorrect answers to Halifax to make sure the payment got 
processed. So, I dont think any amount of questioning would likely have uncovered the 
scam that was taking place.
For the above reasons I dont think Halifax missed an opportunity to prevent the scam so its 
not responsible for Mr Bs loss and doesnt have to refund the money he lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman