DRN-3196399
The complaint
L complains HSB Engineering Insurance Limited unfairly declined his insurance claim for a 
damaged wind turbine. 
Ls been represented for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
representatives actions as being those of L. 
What happened
In February 2018 L claimed, for damage to a wind turbine, against his renewable energy 
insurance policy. HSB declined the claim. It said, based on information provided by L, the 
damage hadnt been caused by the policys insured peril  machinery breakdown. It said 
there hadnt been a breakdown, instead the cause of the damage was a design fault. HSB 
also referred to three policy exclusions to refuse the claim. These excluded gradually 
developing defects, costs incurred through improvement or overhaul and deterioration.   
L complained about the decision. In November 2021 HSB responded. It continued to decline 
the claim. It said again that the cause of the damage didnt meet the policys insured peril - 
machinery breakdown. It said a report provided by L stated the cause to be an under-
engineered design. HSB referred to two of the earlier stated exclusions  improvements 
and deterioration. It also referred to a further exclusion - costs of repair recoverable under 
a manufacturer or suppliers guarantee or warranty. 
HSB also responded to a claim from Ls that a different insurer had paid out for identical 
damage to a wind turbine. This was located on a property neighbouring his. It said that was 
a different insurer with its own policy wording. It added it can only make decisions based on 
the facts of this claim and its policy terms. L wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He says 
the damage is covered by the policy. He wants the claim to be paid. 
In November 2021 our investigator considered the complaint. Her opinion was that HSB 
hadnt done anything wrong by refusing the claim. L didnt accept that, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
In February 2022 I explained to HSB that I felt it had misunderstood Ls policy terms. I said I 
felt it didnt provide cover against machinery breakdown only. I said I read the terms to 
provide all-risks cover. So I said it was unfair for HSB to refuse the claim on the basis the 
loss wasnt a result of machinery breakdown. I said if the policy is all-risks, and HSB wishes 
to refuse the claim, it would need to show it can fairly rely on one of the policys listed 
exclusions. I asked HBS to review the claim after considering my thoughts. 
HSB didnt accept the policy as providing all-risks cover. It said it remained of the view the 
claim didnt trigger the policy cover - and that in any event it falls within the scope of one of 
the policys exclusions  deterioration. It also added it was entitled to refuse the claim on 
other grounds  including a failure by L to comply with a policy clause requiring him to take 
all reasonable precautions to prevent loss or damage. L responded to HSBs latest position 
to say he considered the policy to provide all-risks cover. He referred again to the successful 
claim for the neighbouring wind turbine. 
In March 2022 I issued a provisional decision. It forms part of this final decision, so Ive 
copied it in below. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require HSB to reconsider the claim 
or do anything differently.  I also invited L and HSB to provide any further information for me 
to consider before issuing a final decision. However, neither party did so.
what Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to 
require HSB to pay the claim or do anything differently. 
Its disputed if the policy does provide all-risks cover  however its not necessary for 
me to decide on that either way. To do so wouldnt make a difference to my current 
position on the complaint. Even if I considered the policy to provide all-risks cover, I 
still wouldnt say HSBs decision to refuse the claim is unfair. Thats because, based 
on what Ive seen so far, Im persuaded its reasonable for HSB to rely on the 
deterioration exclusion to refuse the claim. That would mean the claim would fail 
either way - all-risks or not.
The policy says shall not indemnify the insured against:
Deterioration 
Degradation, corrosion, rust, oxidation, erosion wear and tear or wearing 
out.  gradually developing defects including  
 
HSB points to Ls engineers report to support its position. It refers to the report 
identifying the cause of loss as a defect in design which manifested over time in 
cracking to the turbines bedplate. The report says, The root cause of failure of the 
bedplate  is an under-engineered original design.. It says the design has areas 
of high stress which cause cracking. It says during maintenance the bedplate was 
found to be cracked. It reports that various temporary fixes have been made since 
2017, but the crack has steadily progressed and will continue to do so until it reaches 
a point where the machine must be shut down.  
I havent been provided with any other technical assessment of the damage. Having 
considered Ls report its fair and reasonable for HSB to consider the deterioration 
exclusion to apply. The damage does seem to be a gradually developing defect. The 
cracking seems to have developed gradually  since installation. So as Ive said it 
seems fair and reasonable for HSB to rely on the exclusion to refuse the claim.   
Ls said HSB should have had a qualfied enginneer inspect the wind turbine before 
setting up the policy. He says if it had the problem would have been picked up. L 
seems to feel because that didnt happen HSB has a duty to pay the claim. But I 
wouldnt expect it to undertake an engineering inspection when setting up the cover.
Finally HSBs response to Ls point about the neighbours succesful claim is fair and 
reasonable. Id only expect to consider Ls claim against his policy terms. In the same 
way I can only consider his policy terms as part of the circumstances of his complaint 
 not those held by a different policyholder with a different insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I didnt receive any further information or comments in response to the provisional 
decision, I dont see any reason to change my position on the complaint. So for the reasons 
set out in the provisional decision I dont require HSB to reconsider the claim or do anything 
differently.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require HSB Engineering Insurance Limited to 
reconsider the claim or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman