DRN-3199458
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc asked him security questions which were too 
intrusive and beyond reasonable.
What happened
Mr M attempted to make a £20,000 transfer online from his Bank of Scotland account to a 
third party account held in his name, but he was unable to do so until he spoke to Bank of 
Scotlands security team over the phone. 
Mr M says he waited approximately thirty minutes before his call was answered. He says the 
call handler asked him questions which he had already given to Bank of Scotland before he 
was connected to the fraud team. As Mr M felt the questions the call handler asked him were 
intrusive and beyond reasonable, he didnt want to disclose the information the call handler 
asked for.
The call handler informed Mr M that he had different options he could take. He could ring 
Bank of Scotland back if Mr M didnt believe he was speaking to a staff member. Mr M could 
give the call handler the information that he asked for, so the call handler could allow the 
transfer to complete, or the call handler would need to suspend the account for online 
banking, which would require Mr M to go into the branch with photographic identification to 
have the online banking reactivated.
Mr M did not want to ring Bank of Scotland back due to the time it took them to answer calls. 
He explained that he was self isolating and bank of Scotland had no branches nearby. He 
said he would have to travel ten miles to his local branch to do so, but he couldnt for at least 
ten days due to the pandemic. He didnt want to give the information the call handler asked 
for, so he asked the call handler if they could cancel his transaction. 
The call handler explained that if he cancelled the transaction, he would still need to 
suspend Mr Ms online access as he hadnt completed the security questions. Mr M felt that 
he had little choice but to answer the security questions, so he complied with the request. 
The call handler facilitated the transfer of Mr Ms money and his online access wasnt 
affected after the call.
Mr M made a complaint to Bank of Scotland about their procedures. He said that online 
banking was supposed to save time, but it took more than an hour to complete a simple 
transaction. He said the call handler kept repeating that asking the security questions was 
for Mr Ms protection, however, he believed this was nonsense. 
Bank of Scotland partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. They said they would pay him £20 for 
not answering his call sooner. Bank of Scotland explained that they asked him to call them, 
so they knew the transfer was genuine. They explained that their advisers need to ask where 
the money is going and what it is for, even if it seems intrusive and invasive, to ensure he is 
not being scammed. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
He quoted the terms and conditions of the account and listened to the call Mr M had with the 
call handler. Our investigator concluded that it was reasonable for the confirmatory questions 
to be asked to protect their customers as allowed under the banks terms and conditions and 
he said that inevitably these questions will involve an extra inconvenience. 
Mr M asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. In summary he said it was 
not reasonable that he had to explain to the bank how he wished to spend his money, it 
seriously invaded his privacy and he regularly moved large amounts of money between 
financial institutions without being questioned of the purpose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to both Bank of Scotland and this service and Ive 
considered and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as 
a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Bank of Scotland to make changes to their policies 
and procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for 
complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints 
and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, 
make findings about whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments that a customer wants to take place. They can also ask customers to provide 
additional information about the transaction or to ask a customer to attend a branch with 
identification if they remain concerned. This can cause distress and inconvenience to a 
customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Mr M has mentioned that he has moved large amounts of money between different financial 
institutions before and these transactions have not been flagged. But Im unable to comment 
about transactions hes made in the past, as Im only able to look into the merits of the 
complaint that Mr M has brought to this service, regarding the £20,000 transaction he 
attempted to make with Bank of Scotland.
I appreciate that Mr M found Bank of Scotlands security procedures intrusive and invasive, 
especially as he had passed the general security questions at the beginning of the call. But 
Mr M was attempting to transfer £20,000 to a new payee on his account using his internet 
banking. So I cant say Im surprised that this transaction was flagged by Bank of Scotlands 
systems to ensure that it genuinely was Mr Ms choice to transfer the money and he wasnt 
being coerced by a fraudster to move money online.
I have listened to the phone call Mr M had with the Bank of Scotlands call handler. So I can 
understand the frustrations that Mr M had with the process after he waited more than thirty 
minutes to speak to him. While I believe the call didnt get off to the best of starts and there 
were times where the call handler and Mr M were speaking over each other, I was glad to 
hear that both parties were respectful of one another and let each other put their point of 
view across.The call handler explained that if Mr M did not want to answer the security questions then an 
alternative was to go into the branch. I have read all that Mr M has said about his personal 
situation at the time and the reasons why this wasnt practical, but I think Bank of Scotland 
were trying to offer alternatives here if Mr M didnt want to give the information over the 
phone. So I am persuaded they were trying to help him here, if Mr M didnt want to give them 
the information required over the phone. And the call handler clearly explains the 
implications of Mr M not answering the security questions. 
The call handler asks the amount that Mr M is trying to transfer and who it was being paid to, 
which Mr M confirms. Mr M then tells the call handler the purpose of the transfer without 
being asked for it. After this hes asked if this is the first time hes transferred to that payee 
from this account and how he attempted to make the payment (eg mobile phone, website 
etc). At this stage the call handler was going to process the payment after Mr M agreed to 
answer the security questions, so Im satisfied he was checking that the details that Mr M 
had answered online matched up. 
I cant agree that the questions which Bank of Scotland asked above were unreasonable as 
the £20,000 payment was flagged as being unusual and a potential security risk. I dont think 
this was unreasonable as it was a large payment. I also agree with Bank of Scotland that it 
stood out compared to his usual banking activity on that particular account as he had never 
made this payment to himself externally from that account before. So, Im satisfied Bank of 
Scotland acted fairly by relying on their terms and conditions, and internal security 
procedures by delaying this initial £20,000 payment until they were satisfied it was genuine. 
I also think it was fair that Bank of Scotland did not cancel the transaction when Mr M asked 
them to. I say this as the call handler explained that if he cancelled the transaction, then Mr 
M would have needed to visit the branch with identification, which would have caused Mr M 
problems based on his circumstances at the time. I do appreciate that being asked security 
questions can feel intrusive and isolating. However, I think its likely any frustration the call 
handler caused here was unintentional, due to the nature of the conversation and Mr M 
explained he was more frustrated with Bank of Scotlands procedures as opposed to the call 
handler himself. 
In summary, Bank of Scotland asked Mr M confirmatory questions which Mr M will have 
likely input online, as opposed to additional security questions which were unreasonable. So 
Im satisfied that the call handler was asking Mr M the answers to these questions to check 
the transaction was genuine. Bank of Scotland paid Mr M £20 for the length of the time on 
hold and Im satisfied the compensation paid was reasonable despite the fact there would 
always be an element of inconvenience in speaking to Bank of Scotland once a transaction 
has been flagged by their systems. So it follows that I wont be asking Bank of Scotland to 
do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman