DRN-2075924
The complaint
Miss W complained about an instalment loan she took out with Provident Personal Credit 
Limited (trading as Satsuma) and said this was unaffordable for her. 
What happened
Miss W took out a Satsuma loan for £1,000 in November 2018 which she was due to repay 
in 12 instalments of £166. The loan hasnt yet been paid.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss W and Satsuma told us about this loan. He 
didnt think that it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma to have asked Miss W for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. And there wasnt 
anything in the information she provided, or the information Satsuma shouldve been aware 
of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Miss W was saying. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Satsuma provided Miss W with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss W could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Miss Ws income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint. 
Before lending to Miss W, Satsuma asked her for information about her financial situation, 
such as her monthly income and outgoings. It also asked about any other loans she had to 
pay and carried out credit checks. 
Satsuma says it agreed to Miss Ws application after carrying out all the proper checks. And 
it relied on information Miss W provided about her monthly income and expenditure as well 
as information obtained from a credit reference agency. Satsuma said that, even after 
boosting her expenditure figure to build in a safety margin and give Miss W extra protection, 
the information it recorded for Miss W showed that the loan was affordable for her. 
This was Miss Ws first loan with Satsuma. So I think Satsuma could reasonably rely on 
information Miss W provided. Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan 
term, and taking into account the information it seems Miss W told Satsuma about her 
monthly income and what she was paying out, this repayment amount looked comfortably 
affordable for Miss W. And I havent seen anything in the information that Satsuma gathered 
about Miss W that makes me think it shouldve realised that Miss W was going to find it 
difficult to afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way. 
Im sorry that Miss W is in financial hardship and that making the loan repayments she 
signed up to is difficult for her. 
I accept that in reality Miss Ws actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in 
the information she provided, or the other information Satsuma obtained. 
But Satsuma was entitled to decide Miss Ws lending application based on the information it 
had available at the time. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Satsuma 
to ask Miss W to prove what she was declaring or check other information sources to verify 
what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that Miss W mentioned her concerns about being 
able to afford this extra borrowing on top of everything else she had to pay when she applied 
to Satsuma for this loan. So I wouldnt reasonably expect Satsuma to have had any reason 
to believe that she had money problems. 
And I dont think it was unreasonable for Satsuma to lend without making any more detailed 
enquiries into her circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, 
to suggest Miss W wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Miss W has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. 
I appreciate she feels strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will 
come as a disappointment. But financial hardship isnt enough on its own for me to be able 
to uphold her complaint. 
And I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
I remind Satsuma (or any third party) that it should discuss payment options with Miss W and 
treat her fairly and sympathetically. 
If Miss W needs further time to pay what she owes Satsuma and/or she would like help to 
sort out an agreed payment plan or advice on how to manage her finances theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide her with 
useful contact details if she gives us a call. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman