DRN-3164767
The complaint
 Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd charged him interest and late payment fees on money he 
doesnt believe he owes. He would like all fees and charges refunded, his credit file 
amended and compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
I appreciate NewDays points that its credit card statements and terms and conditions 
say how payments are to be made listing a variety of payment options with no 
reference  made to credits from trading accounts  as being an option
However, from the statements I have seen Mr W made three transfers of significant 
sums (several hundred pounds) in March and April 2021  considerably more than 
his contractual minimum payments. . I think Mr Ws intention was clear in that these 
payments were to reduce his balance. And whilst NewDays documentation doesnt 
specify transfers from trading accounts can be used to cover minimum payments it 
doesnt say its list of payment methods is absolute. So, I think Mr W could have 
reasonably thought such a payment  would be acceptable. 
Whilst the way Mr W made the payments might have automatically generated late 
payment fees and interest It seems unreasonable to me that NewDay didnt accept 
the payments Mr W made as covering the minimum payment due when he became 
aware of the situation and raised it with NewDay. It seems harsh, given the 
substantial payments Mr W made , for NewDAy to have charged fees which then 
impacted on Mr Ws credit file.  I think its reasonable to  remove the fees and 
charges and amend Mr Ws credit file. I also agree with our investigators 
recommendation of £200 for distress and inconvenience of dealing with this issue
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement NewDay Ltd should:-
remove all fees and charges connected to the payments made from Mr W trading 
account that were treated as credits rather than contractual minimum payments.
amend Mr Ws credit file to remove any negative information recorded linked to these 
payments
advise the debt collection agency that  the issue that led to its  involvement has been 
resolved;
pay Mr W £200 to recognise the inconvenience when he tried to resolve the
issue and the distress the issue caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman