DRN-3965791
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled her motor
insurance claim.
What happened
In January 2022 Miss O was involved in a collision. She said she was driving along when an
artic lorry proceeded to veer into her lane damaging the right-hand side of her vehicle.
In shock, she managed to obtain a partial registration and noted the lorry was owned by a
well know retailer. She reported the incident to Admiral the same day advising there was
CCTV where the incident occurred.
Admiral accepted the claim but held Miss O at fault for the accident as they hadnt been able
to trace the third party. They had tried to obtain CCTV but as this wasnt done at the time
Miss O registered the claim, the footage was no longer available. Miss O was unhappy with
Admirals liability decision and handling of the claim so made a complaint.
In their final response Admiral offered Miss O £70 compensation as they hadnt obtained the
CCTV in good time and had asked Miss O to chase the council for it herself. But as a partial
registration wasnt enough for them to locate the third party and they had no third party to
pursue they were satisfied with the liability decision.
Remaining unhappy Miss O referred her concerns to this service. Our investigator felt it was
reasonable for Admiral to record the claim as a fault claim. But that Admiral should pay £200
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unreasonable delays in requesting the
CCTV.
Miss O remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review it. In January 2023 I 
issued a provisional decision which said:
Admiral have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. Theyve already accepted
they shouldve done more to obtain the CCTV earlier in the claim. Had they done so its
possible they may have been able to identify the third-party. However, theres no guarantee
it wouldve captured the incident or been clear enough to see who was at fault.
Having reviewed the claim notes, and checked with Admiral, I cant see Admiral exhausted
all opportunities to trace the third-party. Given that Miss O provided a partial registration and
the name of a well-known retailer based in the UK, I think it would have been reasonable for
them to have contacted the retailer with the partial registration, time, date, and location of the
accident to see if there were lorries in the vicinity at that time. Had they done so, its possible
they may have been able to locate the third party. Given the passage of time its unlikely to
provide anything useful now.
I recognise that even if they had traced them, theres still no clear indication of liability as the
third-party couldve disputed it. And Miss Os version of events alone doesnt provide enough
for Admiral to come to a clear conclusion. So, I dont think the liability decision theyve come
to is unreasonable in the circumstances.
I note Miss O was asked by Admiral to chase the council for the CCTV and also took it upon
herself to contact the retailer that owned the lorry to see if she could help her own situation
as she felt let down by Admiral. Miss O shouldnt have had to do this.
Had Admiral carried out a thorough investigation its likely the claim outcome would be
clearer, in that, Miss O wouldve felt shed been treated fairly and that Admiral had done all
they could to resolve her claim.
As they didnt thoroughly investigate it, Miss O has taken her own time to try and conclude
things, chasing for the CCTV and contacting the retailer, which has caused distress and
inconvenience at an already stressful time.
Considering this I think Admiral should pay Miss O £350 in total for the distress and
inconvenience caused by the delays in requesting the CCTV, not doing all they could to
locate the third-party and for the lack of service provided.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss O accepted the decision and asked that I further consider the impact on her no claims 
bonus. Admiral didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Miss Os comments regarding her no claims bonus. I can see that the 
terms and conditions of her insurance policy say: claims that do not affect your bonus  
claims which are not your fault where we have recovered our money in full
As Ive found that, based on the evidence, it wasnt unreasonable for Admiral to come to the 
liability decision they did it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Admiral to reinstate the no claims 
bonus as a claim has been made and deemed at fault.
My final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay Miss O £350 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2023. 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman