DRN-3959365
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly defaulted his 
credit card account.
What happened
In 2020, Mr D was severely impacted by Covid-19. His work was affected, and he was
struggling financially. Also, he had a serious health condition and found himself homeless.
Virgin money supported him with a Short-Term Forbearance Plan for his credit card account.
This was applied in May 2020 for 3 months and then extended by another 3 months.
As Mr D was still in financial difficulty, he spoke to Virgin Money in November 2020. They
offered him a 6 month payment plan which, pending a review, could be extended by a further
3 months.
Mr D says the plan was verbally communicated with a requirement to pay 1% (£122.01) of
his balance, but only if he was in a position to do so. Also, no arrears, interest or charges
would be applied.
However, Mr D had been misinformed. Virgin Money expected the 1% to be paid each
month and stated this in a letter sent to Mr D on 28 November 2020. Mr D says he didnt
receive the letter and, because of his accommodation issues, he relied on the verbal
communication.
So, Mr D took payment breaks and Virgin Money sent arrears letters. Also, Virgin Money
didnt undertake a review after 6 months and, because the arrears built up, they issued a
default notice in September 2021. Mr D was unable to pay this and his account defaulted.
Mr D complained to Virgin Money as he felt the default was unfair. Virgin money disagreed
and wouldnt remove the default. They did though accept the review hadnt taken place and
that they had provided misinformation, so they credited his account with £50.
Mr D complained to our service. Our investigator said that even if the Virgin Money agent
had been clearer in November 2020, and the bank had contacted him at the end of the six
months, she wasnt persuaded he would have been able to maintain the payments. Also, as
banks can default an account after three missed payments, she didnt think Virgin Money did
anything wrong.
As Mr D remains dissatisfied this case has been referred to me to look at.
I issued the following 3 provisional decisions and received comments to each:
Provisional decision 1  issued 4 December 2022
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint. Before I issue my final 
decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply. Ill look at any more comments and 
evidence that I get by 1 January 2023. But unless the information changes my mind, my final 
decision is likely to be along the following lines.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a 
different view to the investigator.
As Mr D was severely impacted by Covid-19, I first considered the support offered by Virgin
Money together with business guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Having
done so, Im satisfied that by offering the extended Short-Term Forbearance Plan and then
an additional 1% 6 to 9 month repayment plan, Virgin Money followed this guidance and
tried to help Mr D.
Noting that Virgin Money accept Mr D was given misinformation about paying 1% if he could
afford to do so, I listened to all the calls and looked at file notes. I found it clear that this is
what Mr D was offered. Furthermore, I could also see that he was informed that he wouldnt
have to pay arrears at the end of the plan. Instead, these would be added to his balance
which I found logical.
I then considered Mr Ds circumstances together with the fact that Virgin Money had sent a
letter which stated the contrary  that 1% had to be paid each month. Also, Virgin Money
had sent Mr D arrears letters.
I found that Mr D was heavily reliant on verbal communication. This is because he was
homeless, was frequently changing address and relying upon others to both hold and pass
on his post. Also, he was vulnerable, had a serious health issue and his type of work meant
he was on the road. So, for these reasons, together with call comments where he sounds
convinced the verbal offer is in place and there had been a mix up over the way the arrears
were being calculated, Im persuaded that he didnt receive the letter dated 28 November
2020.
Also, Virgin Money recognise they made a misinformation error. This incorrect verbal offer
was noted on their system and, perhaps because of this, I cant see that the correct position
was explained to Mr D even when he made follow up calls. In addition, Mr D appeared
surprised to receive the verbal offer, so he checked and received verbal confirmation. Also,
Mr D had a further conversation confirming he wouldnt pay arrears. And the arrears letters
said there was no need to make contact If you have a payment arrangement on this
account.
It may have been an unlikely offer, contradicted by a letter which Mr D would have likely
received if he wasnt in a vulnerable position, but nevertheless it was an offer noted on Virgin
Moneys system. Also, there was an intent behind the offer. It was made upon Mr Ds
request for help when he described his position as precarious and explained this was
because of a combination of Covid-19 and his irregular agency work at that time. Also, the
offer was made after the representative undertook a detailed affordability check.
So, Im satisfied it was a mistake, and I think Virgin Money shouldve honoured the verbal
offer and not asked Mr D to pay the arrears and then default him, as the verbal offer meant it
was highly likely arrears would occur. Also, as Virgin Money accept they didnt undertake the
6 month review they committed to, I think they should have honoured the offer for a further 3
months.
Although I think this would have been the fair and reasonable action, it wouldnt be fair to
expect Virgin Money to hold an account open indefinitely without contractual payments. Also,
it wouldnt be fair on Mr D if he found himself in the position where his account is reinstatedbut, because of contractual payments being higher than 1% of the balance, he is then
defaulted again, impacting his credit file for a longer period.
I could see that Mr D started to consistently make payments again after his account was
defaulted in September 2021. This would have been in line with his commitment to pay his
debt when the 9-month plan concluded. However, whilst Mr D says the amount has recently
increased from approximately 1% of the balance, it will fall short of the contractual minimum
payment. 
So, although Mr D says he is now able to pay the contractual amount as he is in full-time 
employment, I have insufficient information on when Mr Ds financial circumstances
changed and whether they would allow him to both make and sustain contractual payments.
So, whilst Im sympathetic to Mr Ds circumstances and dont think he shouldve been asked
to pay the arrears or defaulted in September 2021, in the absence of this information Im not
asking Virgin Money to reverse the default.
However, I do think Virgin Money should compensate Mr D for their errors which have
caused Mr D distress and inconvenience. And I consider £250 to be a more suitable amount
of compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to partially uphold this
complaint and I require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Mr D £250
compensation. 
This includes any amounts it has already paid in relation to this complaint.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 1 January 2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
Above
Provisional decision 1 - responses
Both parties responded before the deadline.
Virgin Money didnt comment but agreed to pay the additional compensation.
Mr D submitted additional information on his permanent employment which commenced in
December 2021. Also, information on his income, expenditure, other credit cards and more
stable accommodation arrangements. In addition, Mr D provided information on his savings
together with plans to manage his credit card debts and secure permanent accommodation.
Mr D also said he double checked his correspondence files and he never received the Virgin
Money letter dated 28 November 2020. Also, he gave further information on the anxiety and
stress he experienced because of Virgin Moneys communication and management which
he said is wrong and unfair.
Provisional decision 2  issued 23 December 2022
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint. Before I issue my final 
decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply to my second revised provisional 
decision. Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 13 January 2023. But 
unless the information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following 
lines.
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thinking about everything again and, in light of Mr Ds comments, I again considered
whether the default should be lifted. Also, the level of compensation for the anxiety and
distress caused.
For the reasons detailed in my above first provisional decision, I still think Virgin Money
made a mistake. And, that they shouldve honoured a 9 month plan where payments werent
necessary, and arrears didnt accrue. If they had done so, Mr D wouldnt have been
defaulted in September 2021.
When considering Mr Ds payment record between September and December 2021,
together with the likelihood of a short-term plan prior to him recommencing permanent
employment, I think it more likely than not that he would have avoided a default prior to
December 2021. And Im satisfied that, since December 2021, he has been in a position to
make contractual payments to Virgin Money. So, I think the fair and reasonable action here
is for the default to be reversed and for Virgin Money to agree a way forward with Mr D.
Regarding the level of compensation, following a further review of the file notes, Im
persuaded that compensation should be higher than the £250. This is because Mr D was
vulnerable, and Im persuaded he was in a precarious position at the time of the mistake.
Also, Im satisfied that the mistake caused additional anxiety. In addition, it impacted on Mr
Ds health and wellbeing over a period of time. So, I think £500 compensation better reflects
the distress and inconvenience caused here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and I
require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to:
 Remove the default and any adverse information recorded between January 2021 and the 
date of the default
 Pay Mr D £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience, which includes any amounts 
it has already paid in relation to this complaint.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 13 January
2023. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set
out above.
Provisional decision 2  responses
In my provisional decision, I gave Virgin Money and Mr D the opportunity to provide any
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final
decision. I didnt receive a response from Virgin Money, however Mr D pointed out the
following:
 His consistent and increased payment history since the default occurred
 An unexplained balance anomaly in Virgin Moneys correspondence of 25 September
2022 showing he owed £1787.10 less than the balance at default
 He hadnt yet received any compensation and, if he were to do so, he would require
payment to his personal bank account or by crossed cheque
The difficulties hes likely to now have getting a mortgage due to his age and stricter
lending criteriaThe impact on his future
The unbelievable relentless anxiety and stress he had endured due to the default
The default action prevented him making interest free balance transfers on both his
Virgin Money account and another credit card.
Provisional decision 3  issued 20 January 2023
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further response from Virgin Money, for the reasons explained in my
above previous provisional decisions, I still think Virgin Money made a mistake here and
shouldnt have defaulted Mr Ds account in September 2021. So, I think the fair and
reasonable action here is for the default to be reversed and for Virgin Money to agree a way
forward with Mr D.
Regarding the level of compensation, I carefully considered Mr Ds comments together with
our publicly available guidance on compensation for distress or inconvenience. Having
done so, I think an award of £750 better recognises the considerable distress and
inconvenience caused, as well as the impact on his health, well-being and personal
circumstances which has been over many months.
I did consider Mr Ds point that he missed out on the zero interest rate deals with other
lenders and, although I understand Mr Ds frustration here, its difficult to say if Mr D could
have secured these. And considering Mr Ds payment and employment history since 2020 I
think its probably unlikely. So, I dont think it would be fair on Virgin Money to add this to the
amount of compensation Im awarding to Mr D.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and I
require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to:
Remove the default and any adverse information recorded between January 2021 and the 
date of the default
 Pay Mr D £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience less any amounts it has
already paid in relation to this complaint
Clarify the outstanding balance, explaining the balance discrepancy in their letter dated 25 
September 2022 and agree a way forward with Mr D
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 6 February
2023. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set
out above.
Provisional decision 3 - responses
I received a response from both parties. 
Virgin Money clarified their understanding of the provisional decision but didnt submit any 
new information or evidence. They did however comment that they felt the proposed 
compensation is excessive and should be closer to the £250 initially proposed.Mr D feels that the compensation amount is insufficient and requested further consideration 
of the points he raised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons explained in the above provisional decisions I think Virgin Money made a 
mistake here and shouldnt have defaulted Mr Ds account in September 2021. So, Im still 
upholding this compliant.
Regarding the compensation, I reflected upon the points raised and further reviewed the 
publicly available guidance together with the Financial Conduct Authorities guidance on 
vulnerable customers. 
However, I remain satisfied that the amount of £750 is a fair reflection for the distress and 
inconvenience caused here. The amount is a high award but, as explained in my provisional 
decision, I think it reflects the severe distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D, as well as 
the impact on his health, well-being and personal circumstances which has been over many 
months.
So, for the reasons explained in my last provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and I require Virgin Money to:
Remove the default and any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds account 
between January 2021 and the date of the default
Pay Mr D £750 compensation (with an agreed method of payment) for distress and 
inconvenience
Clarify the outstanding balance on Mr Ds account and agree a way forward with Mr 
D
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint and I require 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to:
 Remove the default and any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds account 
between January 2021 and the date of the default
 Pay Mr D £750 compensation (with an agreed method of payment) for distress and 
inconvenience
 Clarify the outstanding balance on Mr Ds account and agree a way forward with Mr 
D
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman