DRN-1904449
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Mini Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mini Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss B was a new car with a price of £21,527.63 and I 
consider that it was reasonable for her to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Miss B in February 2019 and she complained to the dealer 
about an issue with its battery in October 2019 when it had been driven for about 
4,700 miles; 
the car was repaired by the dealer but the issue continued and Miss B was supplied 
with a trickle charger in November 2019 to regulate the charge to the battery;
Miss B continued to have issues with the cars battery  and also had other issues 
including with the cars brakes, tyres and keys - so she complained to Mini Financial 
Services;
it offered to refund to her one monthly payment under the agreement as a gesture of 
goodwill but said that shed accepted a repair of the car and that the first fault wasnt 
until eight months after the point of sale so wasnt present or developing at the point 
of sale and Miss B didnt have the right to reject the car;
Miss B didnt accept that offer and complained to this service;
our investigator said that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and recommended that 
Mini Financial Services should: collect the car and cancel the agreement; refund 
Miss Bs deposit (with interest); remove information about the agreement from 
Miss B's credit file; pay her £300 compensation; and refund 5% of the monthly 
instalments that it had collected since the trickle charger was fitted (with interest);
Miss B accepted that recommendation and has provided receipts for deposit 
payments of £500 and £1,500 that she made to the dealer in February 2019 - but 
Mini Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that there were issues with the cars battery in 
October 2019 and the evidence that Ive seen shows that those issues continued 
after the car had been repaired and after the dealer had provided a trickle charger in 
November 2019  and Miss B has also complained about other issues with the car;
I dont consider it to be reasonable to expect a new car to have the issues about 
which Miss B has complained so soon after it was supplied to her and after shed 
only driven about 4,700 miles in it; and
the repairs that have been attempted by the dealer, including the supply of a trickle 
charger, havent properly dealt with those issues and I consider it to be more likely 
than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B.
Putting things right
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mini Financial 
Services to allow Miss B to reject the car. So I find that it should end the hire purchase 
agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Miss B  both at no cost to her.
The agreement shows that Miss B made an advance payment of £1,531 for the car and the 
invoice from the dealer shows that she made a part payment of £500. Miss B has provided 
receipts to show that she made deposit payments of £500 and £1,500 to the dealer. I find 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Mini Financial Services to refund the deposit 
payments of £2,000 to Miss B, with interest.
Miss Bs use of the car has been affected by the issues that shes experienced. Shes 
provided evidence to show that the cars mileage was 9,650 in August 2020 (and the 
agreement included an annual limit of 8,000 miles). I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Mini Financial Services to refund to her 5% of the monthly payments that shes made 
under the agreement since the trickle charger was supplied to her in November 2019, with 
interest. 
These events will also have caused distress and inconvenience to Miss B. I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Mini Financial Services to pay £300 to Miss B to 
compensate her for that distress and inconvenience. I also find that it should remove any 
information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on Miss Bs credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited, trading as Mini Financial Services, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Miss B  both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Miss B the deposit payments totalling £2,000 that she made for the 
car.3. Refund to Miss B 5% of the monthly payments that shes made under the 
agreement since the trickle charger was supplied in November 2019.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Miss Bs credit file.
6. Pay £300 to Miss B to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Mini Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Mini Financial Services must give Miss B a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman