DRN-3567675
The complaint
Miss T complains that Link Market Services Trustees Limited sent information about 
Subscription Rights for her share dealing account to a previous address, so it was out of 
time to sell by the time she received it, leaving her out of pocket. 
What happened
Miss T held a share dealing account which was administered by Link Market Services 
Trustees Limited (Link). They offered nominee participants an opportunity to sell their 
Subscription Rights free of any fees or commissions. However, Miss T says that for 
Shareholders to take advantage of this offer, they were required to be signed up to the group 
share dealing terms and conditions and place their instruction online by 12 January 2021. 
Where no instruction was received, the Subscription Rights would lapse without 
compensation. 
Miss T says, Link sent her Subscription Rights post to a previous address, so it was out of 
time by the time she received it. In February 2021, she contacted Link as she says she 
hadnt received any information; she was told a copy of the letter they sent via post, would 
be sent again within a week. She says this wasnt received until June 2021 after months of 
chasing this. To resolve the complaint, she would like the value of her Subscription Rights to 
be paid to her. 
Link say they sent the post to their registered address on the account on 30 December 2020 
as they say her preferred method of communication was post. After she complained, they 
accepted misinformation had been given in relation to the original post in December 2020  
the incorrectly told her it was sent via post and email. They also say the mix-up with the 
previous address and current address was to do with the two accounts she held, the 
nominee account and the employee register account which noted her previous address. 
They say the nominee account was the correct account which did have her current address 
and so the Subscription Rights communication was sent to the correct address. So, they 
didnt uphold this element of her complaint and no compensation was offered. However, they 
did accept theyd provided poor service in dealing with her complaints, so they offered 
Miss T a total of £75.00 compensation for this. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Miss T through her representative, brought her complaint to this 
service. The investigator here agreed with Link. She said they had sent the communications 
to the correct address and were not responsible for any post that hadnt been received. In 
terms of the customer service issues raised, Link had already accepted its failings here and 
offered Miss T £75.00 in compensation which the investigator said was fair. 
 
Link accepted the investigators view but Miss T didnt, so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important first to outline what my role as an Ombudsman is. It is to impartially 
investigate the specific complaint brought against Link to reach a fair and reasonable 
conclusion based on the evidence provided. I am not looking to punish a business where 
there has been any wrongdoing or to tell a business how to operate. Any concerns about the 
way a busines operates should be taken to the Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates 
the UKs financial industry. 
The two key issues Miss T complains about are that the Subscription Rights communications 
were sent to her previous address and so she didnt receive this in time to take up the offer 
and was left out of pocket as a result. Secondly, the issues around customer service 
including mis-information, not receiving call backs, not receiving a copy of the letter and 
doing numerous chasers to obtain information. Link issued two final response letters for the 
two separate complaints Miss T made and offered her £25.00 for customer service failings in 
April 2021. The second final response letter was issued in July 2021 and upheld the 
customer service element of Miss Ts complaint again. Here Link offered her an additional 
£50.00 in recognition of their failings. Although I havent mentioned each point from the 
complaints individually, please be assured Ive considered both complaints here.
Link didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint about Subscription Rights communications being sent 
in December 2020. They have provided evidence of the letter being sent to the current 
address which theyve confirmed was noted on the correct account  the nominee account. I 
appreciate what Miss T says, and I can understand why she believes the letter was sent to 
her previous address, particularly as shes had to use this to pass security when shes called 
in. However, I also accept Links explanation that her employee register still had her previous 
address and wasnt updated because the account wasnt active. She was initially brought 
through security on this account before the nominee account was located and she was 
asked to confirm her current address.  
Her concerns around the way the address was covered when sending the previous 
communications are perfectly legitimate concerns given the circumstances, but it doesnt 
mean the business sent this to the previous address. Changes made in the way the 
business share data could very well explain this situation and I accept this as a plausible 
explanation. With everything Ive seen, I am persuaded Link did send the letter to the correct 
address and have satisfied their obligations, so I am not upholding this part of the complaint. 
Link has already accepted their failings in relation to customer service and have upheld this 
in both complaints, so I see no value in going through these points here again. The issue 
Miss T has is around the redress awarded. She doesnt feel £75.00 adequately 
compensates her for the distress and inconvenience she suffered in dealing with these 
complaints so, Ive considered in detail what happened. 
The impact administrative errors can have will vary depending on each individual situation. I 
appreciate Miss T feels strongly about the way Link has dealt with her complaint particularly 
as shes has had to take time to deal with the complaint and being told incorrect information 
would have added to the impact on her time. But even with this in mind, I cant say there has 
been any significant or more lasting impact from these errors. Receiving the information she 
requested in a more timely manner and being given accurate information would certainly 
have saved her some time at least but essentially wouldnt have changed the outcome of the 
situation for her. The initial contact she made with Link was in February 2021, so she was 
already out of time to take advantage of the offer to sell her Subscription Rights and 
accurate communications from Link later wouldnt have changed this outcome.That said I appreciate the time shes taken to chase Link for several months but where my 
role here is not to punish a business, I have to accept that Link admitted errors were made 
and I do think their offer to pay £75.00 compensation is in line with what we would offer in 
this situation. As such, I will be asking Link to make the remainder payment to Miss T, if this 
hasnt already been paid.
Putting things right
Im not persuaded Link sent the Subscription Rights information to her previous address so 
dont uphold this part of the complaint. As Miss T didnt place her instruction for the 
Subscription Rights before the deadline, her rights lapsed without any compensation. 
I do agree the customer service Miss T received was poor, but I dont think this warrants an 
additional amount on top of the £75.00 compensation already offered. Link should make this 
payment of £75.00 to Miss T with credit given for payments already made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding this complaint against Link Market Services Trustees 
Limited and they should pay Miss T £75.00 compensation with credit for payments already 
made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman