DRN-3805928
The complaint
Mrs H complains to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited that she was mis-sold a bond. She says 
she was told her investment was FCA backed and would be safe.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
In 2017, Mrs H invested £15,000 in a B&G Plc 3-Year Fixed Monthly Income Bond. Sales 
of this bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from 
Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for 
investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for 
advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to 
discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium 
from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mrs Hs investment in the bond
Mrs H explained she came across Galliums website after searching online for government 
bonds. She completed her online application on 21 December 2017.
Mrs H says she had limited investment experience and understood she was protected by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Whilst there are some call recordings between Mrs H 
and Gallium, these dont include the date of sale, so Ive not relied on them.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short 
term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck 
went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mrs H has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
Mrs H completed her online application on 21 December 2017.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mrs H underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet 
the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Miss 
W was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mrs Hs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. It said Mrs H had been given sufficient informaiton 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mrs Hs 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Hs complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs H as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for 
her - was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the 
FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Mrs H wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs H to invest. For these 
reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint 
and for Gallium to compensate Mrs H for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mrs Hs complaint
Regardless of label, Mrs H was required to confirm that she met the requirements of 
a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mrs H giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs H made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a 
communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I 
also consider to be relevant here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the releavant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs H into certifying herself as 
belonging in a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by 
changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the 
category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mrs H fairly 
or acting in her best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mrs 
H, it is unlikely she would have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mrs H. In the circumstances Mrs H 
would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should 
have concluded it should not promote the bond to Mrs H.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs Hs complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs H would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium 
to compensate Mrs H for her loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
H as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in an 
inappropriate investment.I take the view that Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs H's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest as set out below.
Pay Mrs H £300 for distress caused by the total loss of the investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
3-Year 
Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
bondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs H agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs H that she repays to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs H wanted to achieve a reasonable return without significant risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs H's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs H would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs H in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman