DRN-3169168
The complaint
Mr B complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank failed to return some 
money he sent to one of its customers in error.
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive provided a summary of 
what happened. 
Mr B has an account with a high street bank, Company A.
In February 2021, using his online banking facility, he made a transfer from his 
Company A account to an account at Tesco in the name of another consumer who Ill 
refer to as Ms M, in error. 
In March 2021 he got in contact with Company A to get the money back and it in turn 
contacted Tesco and asked for it to be returned.
Tesco wrote to Ms M and explained the money would be reversed after a 10-day 
notice period.
When this reversal was unsuccessful, Mr B complained to Tesco but it didnt think it 
had done anything wrong. 
Tesco explained when they attempted the reversal, it was unsuccessful and was 
rejected. It said the reversal would only have been successful if the funds were 
available on the account on the day.
Mr B brought his complaint to this Service. Our investigator didnt uphold it and said 
she was satisfied Tesco had done what it was required to do.
Mr B asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B proactively made the incorrect transfer himself and Ive seen no argument to 
suggest Tesco was responsible for the payment being made incorrectly.
Having looked at the evidence, I can see Tesco contacted Ms M and explained what 
had happened and gave 10 days notice of its intention to return the funds.
Tesco went ahead with its attempt to return the funds after the notice period but this 
was unsuccessful. I cant hold Tesco responsible for this as, on balance, it seems the 
funds werent available to be returned.
Im satisfied that in contacting its customer and attempting to return the funds, Tesco 
has done what Id expect it to do. And had cooperated with Company As efforts to 
recover the money for Mr B.
Mr B has received information from a consumer advice charity that suggests he 
should have received a warning before making the transfer and this would have 
prevented the error from happening.
But warnings of this type are only provided when new payees are set up rather than 
when a payment is made to an existing payee as was the case with Mr Bs transfer.
Additionally, any warning would be provided by the sending bank  in this case, 
Company A - not by the beneficiary bank so Im satisfied this wasnt something 
Tesco would have been expected to do.
Overall, Im satisfied Tesco has done what Id expect it to do in the circumstances 
and I wont be asking it to do anymore. I consider any remaining dispute between 
Mr B and Ms M over the return of the funds to be a civil matter and he may wish to 
seek appropriate advice about what his options are next.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman