DRN-3745506
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Experian Limited charged him each month for the CreditExpert 
service, when hed thought he was making a one-off payment.
What happened
In 2019, Mr M signed up for a monthly subscription to Experians CreditExpert service. He 
was charged £14.99 each month per the terms he agreed to. He explained he was only 
doing this to get a copy of his file as a once-off.
In 2022, Mr M cancelled the subscription and complained. He pointed out that he hadnt 
logged in since that initial month.
Experian said theyd made it clear that it was a subscription and not a one-off payment. But 
as a goodwill gesture, they paid Mr M £125 and refunded his last £14.99 payment, paying 
him a total of £139.99.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that it wouldve been frustrating for Mr M to realise he was still paying for a 
service he wasnt actively using. However, I should explain that we would only award 
redress if a business has got something substantially wrong.
Here, Experian were required to set out the subscription in a way that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading.
Ive looked at the process involved when Mr M upgraded his membership. I can see that the 
upgrade option explained that this would involve a monthly fee of £14.99. The signup page 
then had a bold, highlighted header saying it would cost £14.99/month. The key bullet points 
also said the customer would be charged £14.99, and this would be a subscription, which 
would renew every month until the customer cancelled it. The page linked to the terms and 
conditions, which also set out the terms of the subscription clearly. And before agreeing to 
them, it reminded the customer that they would be paying £14.99 per month for their 
subscription. Then to sign up for the service, it required Mr Ms active consent.
Mr M was then sent a welcome email to confirm the subscription hed signed up to. And he 
was sent regular emails, which reminded him of his membership and his right to cancel.
So Experian made it very clear that the CreditExpert service was a subscription, which would 
be paid monthly. This information was displayed prominently and repeatedly, and was not 
hidden away or ambiguous. There was no option for a one-off payment, and there was 
nothing which said or reasonably implied that this was a one-off payment or anything other 
than a subscription.
I am satisfied that Experian displayed this monthly subscription in a way that was clear, fair, 
and not misleading.
Mr M argued that if theyd made it clear this was a subscription, he wouldve cancelled it 
after the first month. But Im afraid this logic is circular. Businesses are required to make 
things clear in a general sense; they are not required to guarantee that no customer will ever 
misinterpret them. Customers are people, and people will sometimes make mistakes. Here, 
it looks like Mr M made a mistake in thinking this was a one-off payment, despite it being set 
out clearly as a subscription, and despite there being nothing to reasonably suggest that this 
was a one-off payment.
So I find that the error here was Mr Ms, not Experians. And while it is understandable to 
make a human error, it would not be fair or reasonable for me to hold Experian responsible 
for Mr Ms error, when Experian have not done anything wrong themselves.
Mr M pointed out that he didnt use the service after his first month, and I understand where 
hes coming from. But again, thats not due to any error by Experian. Experian provided the 
service Mr M paid for, and even sent him reminders and alerts about it. It was available that 
whole time  Mr Ms lack of use of the service was not due to any error by Experian.
Mr M felt that Experian hadnt followed the principles of treating customers fairly. But Im 
afraid I dont agree. Experian treated Mr M fairly by making things clear when he signed up, 
and by providing the service that was agreed to. Treating customers fairly doesnt really 
extend to refunding payments that were made clear, that the customer actively agreed to, 
that were taken in line with the agreement, where the service purchased was correctly made 
available, and where the business made no error. And it would not be reasonable for me to 
tell Experian to make such a refund.
I understand that Mr M is unhappy with the way that these subscription services work in 
general. But were not the regulator and I cannot change the way things work across the 
board, so Im not best placed to comment on Mr Ms points about how the system as a whole 
should change. I can only consider what happened in this individual complaint, based on the 
laws and regulations in place at the time. And Ive found that Experian did not do anything 
substantially wrong here.
Mr M also pointed out that the £139.99 hed received was much less than hed paid over the 
years. But per the above, Experian were not required to refund anything at all  they had 
taken these payments in line with what Mr M agreed to, and theyd provided what he paid 
for. Experian only paid him this as a gesture of goodwill. This goodwill payment was not an 
admittance of fault  they were just being sympathetic to Mr Ms situation.
Lastly, I understand Mr M felt it was suspect that Experian had so readily directed him to our 
service. However, financial businesses are required to direct customers to our service in 
their complaint responses, regardless of the outcome of the case. Otherwise the customer 
might not know they can come to us.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman