DRN-3916128
The complaint
Miss B complains AutoMoney Limited supplied her with a car that wasnt of satisfactory 
quality under a hire purchase agreement. She also complains the agreement was 
unaffordable for her. 
What happened
In January 2022, Miss B acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from 
AutoMoney. The cash price of the car was £9,143. Miss B part-exchanged her existing car 
and the proceeds of that were used as a deposit (£937.50). She was required to pay an 
initial repayment of £281.48 followed by 58 monthly repayments of £232.48. There was an 
optional final payment of £331.48 if she wanted to purchase the car at the end of the 
agreement. 
In July 2022, the car broke down while Miss B was driving it. The car was recovered to a 
local garage. Miss B contacted AutoMoney to arrange repairs to the car. AutoMoney 
arranged an inspection by a qualified third party which concluded that there was broken 
hose which caused a coolant leak. It said that coolant loss ought to have been evident to 
anyone regularly checking coolant levels and it appeared that rather than being topped up 
with more coolant, plain water had been used for hundreds or possibly a few thousand miles.
AutoMoney therefore didnt agree to assist Miss B with the costs of repairs as she had driven 
the car almost 6,000 miles. It concluded that the fault was therefore not present at the point 
of supply and had been caused by lack of proper maintenance.  
Miss B complained to AutoMoney and wanted to hand the car back and end the hire 
purchase agreement. She also said that she could no longer afford the monthly repayments 
because of a change in her circumstances as a result of not having a working car. She said 
that had appropriate affordability checks been completed at the outset AutoMoney wouldnt 
have lent to her. 
AutoMoney didnt uphold her complaint. It said that the faults with the car werent its 
responsibility as they had developed after the point of supply and were due to Miss B not 
maintaining the coolant levels in the car. It said that it had carried out appropriate checks 
before lending which demonstrated Miss B could afford the payments at the time of the 
application. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B so she didnt think it would be 
reasonable to require AutoMoney to allow rejection of the car or to say it should pay for any 
repairs. She didnt think AutoMoney had made an unfair lending decision at the time it 
agreed to enter into the hire purchase agreement with Miss B. 
Miss B didnt agree. In summary, she said the car had been serviced prior to her taking 
delivery of it, she had also had a service done which checked the oil levels only a few days 
before the car broke down. She said there was nothing further she could have done to 
prevent the issue and it was unfair that she had to cover the costs of the repairs. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The lending decision
In deciding whether AutoMoney acted fairly and reasonably in lending to Miss B, Ive had in 
mind the rules and guidance within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (known as CONC) 
section of the regulators handbook. 
Prior to agreeing to the finance, AutoMoney were required to ensure the agreement would 
be affordable to Miss B. It had to completed proportionate checks to satisfy itself of this. 
There isnt a set list of checks AutoMoney had to complete, but in deciding what was 
reasonable and proportionate it needed to consider things such as (but not limited to): the 
amount borrowed, the size of the repayment, the total repayable, the term and Miss Bs 
circumstances. 
Miss B declared a monthly income of £1,200 on her application. AutoMoney says information 
provided by a credit reference agency confirmed this to be broadly accurate. The credit 
check AutoMoney completed showed that Miss B had some historic defaults, the last of 
which was around nineteen months prior to the application and she still had outstanding 
balances on those to repay. She only had three active accounts showing, two current 
accounts and a hire purchase agreement which was to be settled with the part-exchange 
into this new agreement. So, this indicated that other than repaying those defaulted debts, 
Miss B would have no other credit commitments except for the AutoMoney hire purchase 
agreement. 
It's arguable that AutoMoneys affordability checks might have gone far enough. But given 
the historic payment difficulties and Miss Bs relatively modest monthly income compared to 
the size and term of the loan, it could also be argued that AutoMoney should have done 
more. However, regardless of which it is, I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome 
Ive reached. This is because even if AutoMoney had gone as far as to verify Miss Bs 
income and expenditure in greater detail, I havent been presented with anything to 
persuade me that she couldnt reasonably afford the repayments at the time. 
The bank statements Miss B has provided to us indicate that the loan appeared to be 
affordable, so I cant see that AutoMoney would ever have likely concluded otherwise no 
matter how thorough their checks were. I therefore dont think AutoMoney made an unfair 
lending decision.
I understand Miss Bs circumstances have since changed and she can no longer afford the 
repayments now. She would need to discuss her circumstances with AutoMoney and the 
options available to her. 
The quality of the car
Under the hire purchase agreement AutoMoney is also the supplier of the car and is 
therefore responsible for a complaint about its quality. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) implies a term into any contract to supply goods that those goods will be of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is taken to be what a reasonable person would expect, 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all other relevant 
circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include  but arent limited to  the age and mileage of the car.
The car that was supplied to Miss B was nearly eight years old and had travelled almost 
80,000 miles. The cash price of the car was around £9,000. So, what would be considered 
satisfactory would be very different to a brand new car. 
The car would however still need to be free from faults, but I think there is a reasonable 
expectation that certain components in the car are likely to be worn and in need of 
replacement sooner than on a brand new car. There might also be a reasonable expectation 
that more regular maintenance might be required and that some components would be more 
prone to failure as they were nearer the end of their expected life cycle.
Miss B says that the car was serviced just before she took possession of it and that she took 
it to a garage for another service a few days before it broke down. She says the garage that 
serviced it a few days before had checked the oil and coolant levels. While the invoice for 
that service doesnt show coolant levels were checked, the report by the roadside mechanic 
that initially assisted Miss B following the breakdown noted that coolant levels were ok. This 
initially appears to be inconsistent with what the independent inspection concluded. 
However, I note that the roadside mechanic also says it needed to top up the expansion tank 
(which they did with water) because it was empty. This suggests the levels might not have 
been ok and means Ive placed less reliance on the content of that report.  
This means the evidence isnt entirely clear and consistent as to the exact cause of the fault. 
However, what is clear is that the engine wont start due to damage caused to a head 
gasket. The independent inspection concludes this damage was caused because of the 
issue with a leaking hose causing coolant loss. From everything Ive seen, Im persuaded 
thats most likely to be the case. The issue therefore is whether AutoMoney is responsible 
for putting that right. 
From everything Ive seen it appears the fault materialised some time after the car was 
supplied rather than it being something that was already occurring or developing when 
Miss B took possession of it. I say this because there has been no persuasive evidence 
provided to indicate that she would have been able to drive almost 6,000 miles while this 
fault was developing. 
Ive also not seen anything to persuade me that a fault of this nature is unexpected or 
unusual for a car of this age and mileage. The hose which burst would understandably have 
worn over time and while very unfortunate for Miss B that it happened so soon after she took 
possession of the car, it appears to be an issue related to normal wear and tear associated 
with age and use, rather than any inherent fault with the car.
I accept that Miss B likely did all that she reasonably could to maintain the car and I accept 
that no warning lights told her there was a coolant leak. However, despite this, the only way 
I could reasonably direct AutoMoney to cover the repair costs is if the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. Just because the car has developed a 
fault some time later, that doesnt automatically mean it was of unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied. In this specific case, the faults appear to have occurred due to age related wear 
and tear to certain components rather than due to any defect with the car. It is unfortunate 
that component caused further damage to other parts of the car, but this isnt something 
I could reasonably hold AutoMoney responsible for. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman