DRN-2921034
The complaint
Mrs E complains that AXA Insurance UK plc mishandled her claim on a motor insurance
policy.
  
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a sports utility vehicle first registered in 2013. Mrs E
had the vehicle on a finance agreement. She also had GAP insurance.
For the year from late January 2020, Mrs E had the car insured on a policy with AXA. Mrs E
was the policyholder. The policy also covered her son as a named driver. Mrs E agreed to
pay the yearly premium by instalments. Claims were subject to a policy excess of £450.00.
In February 2020, Mrs Es son parked the vehicle at his girlfriends house. Unfortunately, on
about 14 February 2020, someone stole the car and its contents.
Mrs E made a claim to AXA. It provided a courtesy car but only for a couple of weeks. AXA
paid Mrs E £300.00 for personal belongings.
On about 22 April 2020, AXA offered £23,775.00 for the lost car (less the policy excess of
£450.00). AXA paid the balance to the finance company.
In early May 2020, Mrs E complained to AXA that it was mishandling her claim.
In late May 2020, AXA agreed to increase its valuation to £24,460.00 and it paid the balance
to the finance company. The total amount AXA paid the finance company wasnt enough to
clear the finance agreement.
In mid-June 2020, AXA acknowledged Mrs Es complaint.
In July 2020, Mrs E paid the balance due to AXA for the insurance premium.
In October 2020, Mrs E brought her complaint to us.
AXA wrote a final response dated 21 December 2020. It apologised for delay and offered
Mrs E £250.00, which she didnt accept and AXA didnt pay.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that:
AXA was entitled to deduct the amount of the outstanding policy premiums from the 
settlement figure it paid to the finance company and to ask Mrs E to pay the shortfall;
AXA provided Mrs E a courtesy car for the period she was entitled to under the policy 
terms;
AXA paid Mrs E the maximum amount she was entitled to under the policy terms for 
the personal belongings;
Although there were delays during the claim process, AXA alone wasnt responsible 
for any delay and the claim was settled within an acceptable timescale;
AXAs handling of the claim wasnt the cause of the anxiety and stress Mrs E 
suffered after her car was stolen;
The £250.00 offer was fair and reasonable.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs E 
and to AXA on 16 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
Keeping in mind the extent to which I held AXA responsible for Mrs Es distress and
inconvenience, I found its offer of £250.00 fair and reasonable.
As that offer post-dated the eight-week period and Mrs Es complaint to us, I was 
minded to uphold her complaint in part and direct AXA to pay her £250.00 for distress 
and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mrs E or from AXA, my provisional decision was that 
I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct AXA Insurance UK plc to pay Mrs E 
£250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs E accepts the provisional decision. She says that living where she and her husband live 
without public transport was a major cause of her stress.
AXA hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
So I see no reason to change my view.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E has explained that she expected to use the SUV to get to work during the week. Her
son had a van for work. At weekends the SUV was available for him to drive and the van
was available for her.
I was sorry to hear from Mrs E that in January 2020, her husband received a diagnosis of
cancer.
When she took out the insurance in January 2020, it was subject to policy terms. They
included a term that if there was a claim followed by cancellation of the policy, the
instalments of premium had to be paid to the end of the policy year and might be deducted
from the settlement of the claim.
The policy terms also provided that AXA would provide a courtesy car for a maximum of 14
days if her vehicle was a total loss.The policy terms provided that the maximum claim for personal belongings was £300.00.
The policy terms also included the following:
Finance or hire purchase agreements
If you have bought your car under a finance or hire purchase agreement, or are
leasing it, any money owed to the company or bank involved will be paid directly to
that company or bank first and any balance of the agreed settlement sum will then be
paid to you.
None of those policy terms are unusual. And I cant say any of them is unfair.
The theft of the SUV was bound to involve Mrs E in some inconvenience  especially if the
SUV remained missing for more than 14 days.
AXA took the courtesy car back within a couple of weeks. Mrs E has said her son needed
the van for work. So Mrs E was in a difficult situation. But I cant say that AXA shouldve let
her keep the courtesy car longer.
She has told us that from 10 March 2020 a friend lent her a vehicle and she paid him £50.00
per week. Her husband had hospital visits, but she carried on working until after his surgery
on 19 March 2020. After he left hospital, she took annual leave and sick leave.
After the first lockdown in late March 2020, Mrs Es son couldnt work. But he took the van to
live with his girlfriend.
Mrs E returned to work - at weekends until the middle of May 2020.
AXA took until 22 April 2020 to make an offer of settlement. And AXA has apologised for
delay. I dont consider that AXA treated Mrs E unfairly by paying the finance company
directly.
The GAP insurer queried the valuation of the SUV. And AXA took until late May 2020 to
review and increase it.
I can see that the GAP insurer wouldnt pay out until after AXA had settled Mrs Es claim.
Mrs E has told us that the GAP insurer didnt pay out until the middle of June 2020. And it
was July 2020 before she could buy another vehicle.
As she had made her complaint in early May 2020, AXA shouldve sent a final response
within eight weeks, that is by about early July 2020.
Mrs E had a very difficult time between January and July 2020.
But I cant say that AXA did anything wrong by withdrawing the courtesy car, paying £300.00
for personal belongings, paying the finance company direct or asking for payment of the
balance of the premium.
AXA has apologised for delay in dealing with the claim. And I accept that this contributed to
the delay in Mrs E getting another vehicle.
AXA has also apologised for its delay in its final response to the complaint. And I dont
condone such lateness. But its acknowledgment in June 2020 had told Mrs E of her right to
bring her complaint to us. And Mrs E didnt accept the offer of £250.00. So I dont considerthat the lateness of the final response caused her any prejudice.
  
Putting things right
Keeping in mind the extent to which I hold AXA responsible for Mrs Es distress and
inconvenience, I find its offer of £250.00 fair and reasonable. As that offer postdates the
eight-week period and Mrs Es complaint to us, I will uphold her complaint in part and direct 
AXA to pay her £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct AXA Insurance UK plc to pay Mrs E £250.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman