DRN-3062829
The complaint
Mrs M complains that a finance incentive was incorrectly described to her and this induced 
her to take out a finance agreement with Volkswagen Financial Service (UK) Limited.
What happened
Mrs M entered into negotiations to buy a new car. As part of her research Mrs M looked at 
buying a new Audi on a finance deal which had no repayments for the first three months. 
Mrs M explains that she had the money to buy the car outright but was persuaded to take 
the finance deal to benefit from the first three months free. This was called 3 months on us. 
Mrs M explained that she rushed to complete the purchase of the car and take out the 
finance agreement in order to take advantage of the offer.
Some months later Mrs M called VWFS for a settlement figure. Mrs M was upset to discover 
that the finance outstanding did not reflect that the 3 monthly instalments had been made. 
When Mrs M complained she discovered that the offer worked in a different way to what she 
had been led to believe. VWFS offered Mrs M £500 to reflect the inconvenience of the 
misunderstandings but Mrs M wanted the value of 3 monthly instalments applied to her 
finance agreement and so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms complaint. She thought that VWFS hadnt done 
anything wrong. She thought that the explanation of the finance incentive didnt clearly 
explain how it worked but she thought that this was not the sole reason Mrs M bought the 
car. She thought that as Mrs M was getting the benefit of the incentive in the form of lower 
interest on the agreement then she hadnt lost out either.
Mrs M disagreed and replied to say in summary that the only reason for taking out the 
finance was to take advantage of the three monthly repayments and the reason that the 
finance wasnt settled in February after the three month repayments had been made was 
because of the discrepancy with the settlement figure. Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known to the parties and so I wont repeat them in detail in this decision. 
Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my conclusions.
Negotiations to buy a new car encompass a number of factors including the make and model 
of the car together with discussions about features and also consideration of the price and 
method of funding the purchase.
I wasnt present when these discussions were taking place and Mrs M has explained that the 
discussions took place mainly over the telephone although she watched a promotional video 
about the offer. Mrs M has explained that she was attracted to the finance deal because 
there was a dealer contribution and 3 months rentals were paid by the dealership. 
I dont doubt Mrs M when she says that this was an attractive offer that was too good to 
miss. But I cant say that this was the only reason she bought the car on finance. Even if 
Mrs M did have the money to buy the car outright, taking the finance meant that Mrs M 
continued to have the benefit of that money and she was also paying nothing for the car for 3 
months. After the 3 months Mrs M was happy with the payments and these were in line with 
what she was expecting to pay over the period that she had agreed to.
Mrs M didnt settle the finance as soon as the free 3 months were up, and she explained that 
this was because she was unhappy with the settlement figure. Mrs M has indicated that she 
has sold the car and settled the finance because of the stress caused. Mrs M has continued 
to pay the monthly repayments and so I cant conclude that it was always her intention to 
repay the finance as soon as the three months were up. I think it is more likely that she took 
the finance to take advantage of the free three months and it was part of her overall decision 
making in relation to the car.
Although the finance deal has not been structured in the way she expected I cant say, 
based on the evidence I have seen that this was a material misstatement. I say this because 
Mrs M was told she wouldnt have to pay anything for the first three months and that the 
repayments were not added into the agreement later. The dealership did make a contribution 
to the finance agreement equivalent to three months rentals in order to discount the interest 
rate across the agreement. So, Mrs M was paying the price she agreed for the car and the 
interest rate on the agreement was clearly set out.
I do understand why Mrs M feels unhappy and considers that the campaign is misleading. I 
think that the material terms of the finance were properly explained in the documents. Given 
what Mrs M has said about her circumstances at the time I dont think there is enough 
evidence for me to conclude she would have paid cash for the car if the terms of the 3 
months on us had been more clearly explained.
VWFS acknowledged that there had been misunderstandings and offered Mrs M £500 as a 
goodwill gesture. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and Mrs M should 
approach the business if she wishes to accept this offer. 
For these reasons I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
          
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman