DRN-2434019
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit 
card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs B says Capital One should not have allowed her to open the credit card account as it 
was clear she had a poor credit score and credit history. She says her circumstances 
significantly changed in 2016 and would like Capital One to refund her interest payments 
and charges.
Capital One says the account was opened in March 2014 and Mrs B told it she was earning 
over £30,000 a year with additional income of £15,000 to be considered. It says it carried out 
appropriate checks and says there were no recorded defaults in the previous six months and 
also considered Mrs Bs payment record on other credit card accounts. It also says Mrs B 
made required payments until late 2017.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Capital One had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks and concluded the 
lending was affordable.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and in summary says her circumstances changed and 
Capital One ought to have asked to see her bank statements at the time of the account 
opening.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I realise 
Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision.
I accept that any lending or the providing of credit must be affordable. Lenders must carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks on any application but those checks, and the level 
of those checks, will vary depending on the type of lending and the amount.
I have looked at Capital Ones records and can see this account was opened in March 2014 
and that Mrs B declared a total income of about £32,000 with additional income to be 
considered of £15,000. Im satisfied that Capital One checked Mrs Bs credit file and 
considered her previous defaults and that there had been no adverse information recorded 
on the credit file in the last six months. So, Im satisfied Capital One carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks on Mrs Bs application and Im satisfied it gave her what I think is a 
relatively modest credit limit of £1,500.
I can see from Mrs Bs account statements that from 2014 until the end of 2017 Mrs B made 
the required monthly payments and managed her account appropriately. I think the problems 
started in late 2017 and can see that Mrs B has told us that her circumstances changed 
significantly in 2016. I am sorry to hear that, but I dont think Capital One could reasonably 
have known that in early 2014. And I think that as the account was appropriately managed 
for well over two years that provides the best evidence that the account was affordable in 
2014 when it was first opened.
Im satisfied that overall reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out. I would not 
have expected Capital One to have asked to have seen Mrs Bs bank statements as I think it 
had checked her credit file and considered her management of other credit card accounts. It 
follows that I dont think Capital One acted irresponsibly by approving the credit card account 
and so I cant fairly order it to refund any interest or charges as Mrs B would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman