DRN-3883558
The complaint
Mr F has complained about what he considers to have been delays created by Halifax Share 
Dealing Limited in the sale proceeds of shares he held being counted as tradable funds for 
reinvestment. As such, Mr F considers that he has lost out on a number of shares in which 
he could have reinvested had the delay not been incurred.
What happened
On 15 January 2021 (a Saturday), Mr F placed an order to sell 14,600 units in his holding of 
Rathbone Unit Trust Management Global Opportunities InstI Acc within his Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr Fs order was then executed at the next valuation point on the following Monday - 18 
January 2021. Mr F then logged in to his account on 18 and 19 January 2021 to place 
further trades in the Liontrust Global Technology Fund with the proceeds, but the funds 
hadnt yet been allocated to his account.
The price of those shares then increased up to the date that Mr F was then able to place the 
new trade on 21 January 2021.
Mr F spoke about this with Halifax on 22 January 2021, which it then treated as a complaint, 
and to which it responded by letter on 26 January 2021, saying that it had up until the 
settlement date of 22 January 2021 to credit the sale proceeds to Mr Fs account. It further 
said that, if it received the funds sooner from the fund manager, it would endeavour to credit 
them to the SIPP account as soon as practically possible.
It confirmed that the sum of £50,246.54 was credited to Mr Fs account on 20 January 2021, 
which it noted Mr F then used to reinvest in another holding.
Mr F emailed and spoke to Halifax several times following this in February and March 2021, 
saying that he didnt think that his complaint had been properly dealt with, and on 15 March 
2021, Halifax said that it would be reopening Mr Fs complaint for further investigation.
Mr F wrote to Halifax on 31 March 2021, reiterating his complaint about the delay in 
receiving the trade proceeds into his SIPP account. He said that Halifaxs actions had been 
contrary to the SIPP terms and conditions, which he said set out the following:
Receipt of proceeds on the sale of investments
9.4 If you instruct us to sell investments the net sale proceeds received by us will be credited 
to the account for your SIPP on the dealing date stated on the trade confirmation. For your 
convenience, sales proceeds from sales of investments held in the account for your SIPP 
will count as tradable funds from the date of your order for the purposes of buying other 
investments only.
Mr F also complained about the way Halifax had dealt with his concerns. Mr F referred the 
matter to this service on the same date.
Halifax contacted Mr F further on 1 July 2021, saying that funds were traded differently to 
equities and it was reliant upon third parties when trading in them. As such, timescales 
varied due to the different times and days on which the fund managers create the price for 
any given day, and then the distribution of information to all of the market counterparties 
involved.
It further said that, once it received the price, the bargain reference number was created, 
which in turn then allocated the available funds to the SIPP account prior to the execution of 
the trade.
Halifax said that it had content about the trading of funds on its Order Execution Policy and 
Funds Centre, and that it thought that, as an experienced funds trader, Mr F would have 
been aware of these processes.
Mr F disagreed, asking that Halifax direct him to where it was set out in the SIPP 
documentation that funds were traded differently to equities. He said it wasnt set out either 
in the Order Execution Policy or in the Funds Centre.
Mr F reiterated that the delay in crediting his account with the sale proceeds was contrary to 
Clause 9.4 of the SIPP terms and conditions.
On 27 July 2021, Halifax wrote to Mr F saying that it had located further information which it 
hoped would clarify the matter of how funds were traded. This was set out as follows:
Funds (open ended investment companies & unit trusts)
"Fund trades can only be executed with the fund's management company"...
"Unlike shares, funds only trade once a day." 
"The price achieved will be confirmed to you within the trade confirmation"
This, Halifax said, was confirmation that funds and shares are dealt with differently. It added 
that the trade confirmation would only appear once it had received the price communicated 
to it to create the bargain for the trade. Until that point, it said, Mr Fs fund order would 
appear in pending deals, but Mr F would have received the price for the day of the next 
assured valuation point (AVP) from when he placed the order.
It then set out the timescales and process for trading in funds, as follows:
1. Customer places the fund order online.
2. The next AVP passes.
3. The order is accepted and the fund is traded (for purchases, the money will be taken at 
this point)
4. Usually two days after the trade is placed Halifax receives the price back from Cofunds - 
for sales, the net balance of the trade becomes available to invest.
And then, three to four days after the trade is placed, settlement occurs, and at this
point the net balance of the sale becomes available to withdraw, although this could vary.
Halifax said that it had passed feedback to the relevant department for this to be made 
clearer online for its customers. However, it said that, as an execution only broker, it would 
expect its customers would be aware of how open ended investment companies (OEICs) 
would be traded.Mr F remained of the view that this was contrary to clause 9.4 of the SIPP terms and 
conditions.
One of our investigators considered the matter and issued his initial assessment on 7 June 
2022, saying in summary that he thought there had been a delay which was contrary to 
clause 9.4 in the terms and conditions. He said that the order should have been sent to the 
fund manager on 18 January 2021 to achieve the AVP on the same day. The units should 
then have been sold and the funds made available for investment on the following day  19 
January 2021.
Halifax disagreed, however, saying in summary the following:
Fund trading was specialist by nature, with variances which differed from standard 
share trading. The standard terms referred to relate to the standard trading of shares, 
with separate literature available for guidance on trading funds.
This difference was recognised by Mr F himself in his claim, who had said that he 
had hoped the funds would be made available for reinvestment two days after the 
date of his order. This expectation clearly differed from the terms within clause 9.4.
The timescale of a fund trade was largely determined by the time of receipt of 
confirmation of the obtained price from the underlying fund manager  this could vary 
and so there was nothing binding in its agreement relating to this.
For the sale proceeds for funds, the amount wouldnt be known until a bargain had 
been created by the broker after the fund trade had been executed with the 
underlying fund manager.
The bargain was created once the broker received the execution details from the 
fund manager and these were keyed to the customers account.
At that point, the customer was provided with a trade confirmation and was able to 
view the trade details online  which included the cash now available for 
reinvestment.
It set out the following guidance which was available to customers online:
Trading support   Investing   Halifax
When will I be able to see my fund trade?
Funds are traded differently to shares. Funds are normally priced once each day at a 
time called the valuation point. The price per unit for the fund will be set by the 
valuation of the assets. For most funds, if you place your order before 11.15 am, the 
trade will be priced at 12 noon. Any order placed after 11.15 am would not be priced 
until the following working day at 12 noon. The completed trade can take a couple of 
days to show within your account.
When you place a buy order for a fund you can only set an amount you wish to 
invest. The Fund Manager will receive your order at the next valuation point and will 
invest your money at the new fund price (the future price). Your order will then be 
allocated to your account within a couple of days.
In this instance, Halifax received confirmation of the obtained price from the 
underlying fund manager and created the bargain by keying it to Mr Fs account at 
12.20pm on 20 January 2021. This was the earliest opportunity to upload the details 
of the order to Mr Fs account and he then reinvested his funds later that day.In conclusion, Halifax said that it didnt think there had been any breach of the customer 
agreement, and that, as an experienced trader, Mr F would be aware of the variances which 
apply to this kind of trade. The sale proceeds werent available to trade until 20 January 
2021 and so it was unable to honour a price which might have been available earlier than 
this.
The investigator then issued a further assessment on 8 July 2022, in which he said that 
Halifaxs order execution policy set out the following:
Funds (Open-ended Investment Companies and Unit trusts
Fund trades can only be executed with the funds management company so market
counterparties dont compete for these orders. Unlike shares, funds trade once a day. When
you buy or sell in a fund, we send the order to the funds manager for execution at the next
valuation point. Most funds are priced once a day at the Assured Valuation Point (AVP),
when its assets are valued and the price per unit is set. As an example, for funds with a AVP
of 12 noon, orders would ordinarily need to be placed by 11:15 to meet the days cut off time.
Any orders placed after this time would not be placed with the fund manager until the next
working day. Each fund can have different AVPs and cut-off time. The price achieved will be
confirmed to you within the trade confirmation.
He further noted that Halifaxs online trading support said the following:
When will I be able to see my fund trade?
Funds are normally priced once each day at a time called the valuation point. The price per
unit for the fund will be set by the valuation of the assets. For most funds, if you place your
order before 11:15 am, the trade would be priced at 12 noon. Any order placed after 11:15
am would not be priced until the following day. The completed trade can take a couple of
days to show within your account.
When you place a buy order for a fund you can only set an amount you wish to invest. The
fund manager will receive your order at the next valuation point and invest your money at the
new fund price (the future price). Your order will then be allocated to your account within a
couple of days.
The investigator said that, as the order wasnt executed by the fund manager until 20 
January 2021, he couldnt conclude that there had been a delay caused by Halifax or that it 
had breached its terms  there were no specific time limits on fund trades, he said.
Mr F disagreed, however, reiterating the timeline for what had happened, and noting the 
trade confirmation after it had happened at the end of Monday 18 January 2021 said that 
this trade was dealt with by the Fund Manager and that the proceeds have been credited 
to your appropriate account  i.e. that this used the past tense.
Clause 7.2 said that tradeable funds would include amounts that will be received in respect 
of any sell order that has been executed. According to the past tense used above in the 
trade confirmation, this meant that Mr F should then have had the tradeable funds, he said.
Clause 9.4 of the terms and conditions didnt differentiate between the sale of shares and 
other types of investment, and Halifax has provided no documentation evidencing that it only 
applied to shares, Mr F further said.
Mr F therefore considered that, as the trade was dealt with on 18 January 2021, the 
proceeds should have been available for reinvestment early on 19 January 2021.Specifically addressing Halifaxs response to the initial assessment, Mr F said that 
statements contained online such as the Trading Support section couldnt be considered to 
be part of the contractual agreement between him and Halifax, especially as their existence 
in January 2021 hadnt been established. 
It also contradicted clause 9.4 and couldnt be considered to override it. Clause 9.4 must 
therefore apply to all sell trades, Mr F said.
He further said that Halifax hadnt confirmed when the trade was executed, only that it had 
been keyed into his account on 20 January 2020. But the trade confirmation said that it had 
been executed on 18 January 2021.
Mr F added that, on 18 July 2022, hed begun another partial sale of units in the same fund, 
and according to an attached screenshot, it said that the funds would be available for 
reinvestment immediately after execution.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view, saying that Halifax Share dealing 
Limited was mainly focussed on share dealing, as the name suggested, and this was also 
reflected in its terms and conditions. The terms didnt have specific provisions for dealing 
with funds.
As to the execution set out in the trade confirmation provided by Mr F, this was the point at 
which the underlying fund manager executed the order, not Halifax.
And regarding the points relating to the policy wording of the documents, he didnt think that 
Halifax had breached any agreement with Mr F as the terms and conditions were focussed 
upon share dealing. Although there were no specific terms relating to dealing in funds, the 
investigator said that hed considered whether Halifax had actioned the request in a timely 
manner, and he thought it had.
Mr F disagreed, reiterating his view that Halifax hadnt provided evidence that clause 9.4 
didnt apply to the sale of funds as well as shares. Halifaxs own order execution policy also 
indicated that the term execution applied to the action of the fund manager, not to 
subsequent action taken by Halifax. Specifically, Halifax hadnt said that the term related to 
the time and date of it keying the trade confirmation into a customers account.
All of Halifaxs documentation  including the confirmation stage of the placement of the 
order, the trade confirmation after the orders execution, and clauses 7.2 and 9.4 of the SIPP 
terms and conditions - indicated that the sale proceeds would be available for reinvestment 
at the time of execution (or earlier).
Mr F also didnt think the name  Halifax Share Dealing Limited  was relevant in defining 
the scope of its business. He said that it dealt with many different types of investments, and 
the SIPP terms and conditions referred throughout to investments.
As to the term execution, Mr F agreed that this didnt refer to the date and time of Halifax 
keying the trade confirmation into a customers account, but was described as follows in the 
order execution policy:
"Fund trades can only be executed with the fund's management company so market
counterparties do not compete for those orders. Unlike shares, funds only trade once a
day. When you buy or sell units in a fund, we send the order to the fund manager for
execution at the next valuation point."It also couldnt reasonably be the case that Halifax could retain the funds after the execution 
of the trade for an undefined period of time, Mr F said.
Mr F added that the terms and conditions were part of the agreement between him and 
Halifax, and it hadnt offered any evidence that the terms only related to share dealing. 
He also didnt agree that Halifax had acted in a timely manner, saying that there were four 
points relating to when the proceeds would be available for reinvestment:
1. During the confirmation stage of the placement of the order, which said that funds 
would be available for reinvestment following the trades execution  by the fund 
manager, not Halifax.
2. After the order was executed, on the trade confirmation  a record sent to Mr F 
from Halifax and which said that proceeds have been credited to your 
appropriate account.
3. Documented in clauses 7.2 and 9.4 of the SIPP terms and conditions.
Mr F reiterated his view that the date and time of execution was at the end of Monday 18 
January 2021 (he thought at this point at midnight) and as the sale proceeds werent keyed 
into his account until 12.20pm on Wednesday 20 January 2021, at least 36 hours had 
elapsed by that point.
In response, the investigator said that, as agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it 
would be referred to an ombudsman for review. He asked both parties for any final 
comments before that referral.
Mr F replied, saying that he hadnt seen any documentation which would demonstrate that 
clause 9.4 didnt apply to the sale of funds rather than just shares, or any documentation 
which would apply to the sale of the funds if this was different, nor any documentation 
relating to the delay of over 36 hours between the execution of the trade and the updating of 
his SIPP account.
Mr F said that these unanswered aspects formed the basis of his rejection of the 
investigators assessment.
Mr F then provided more information about the timescale for a recent trade which he thought 
would be useful, as follows:
He placed the order to buy at 20:47 on Tuesday 02 August 2022.
The Valuation Point was 12:00 on Wednesday 03 August 2022.
He received an email confirmation of the trade execution, timestamped 15:47 on
Wednesday 03 August 2022.
He viewed the purchased units in his account online at 17:17 on Wednesday 03 
August 2022.
He viewed the Trade Confirmation web page on-line at 17:24 on Wednesday 03 
August 2022.
He downloaded the Trade Confirmation PDF at 14:28 on Thursday 04 August 2022.
Mr F said that, on both confirmations, the trade was shown as dealt (executed) by the Fund 
Manager on Wednesday 03 August 00:00. The trade was executed at the first available 
valuation point and the details were entered onto his account within a few hours at most, Mr 
F added. He said that he had expected a similar timescale for the sale of his funds in 
January 2021.The investigator referred this to Halifax for its comments, to which it replied that the 
timescales for all funds trades were determined by the underlying fund manager, which was 
outside of its control. It referred the investigator back to the online wording which said that 
the completed trade could take a couple of days to show in a customers account.
He conveyed this to Mr F, but Mr F noted that Halifax hadnt specifically commented on the 
difference in timing for the two trades. Rather, it had referred to a generic statement on its 
website, which he couldnt accept as overriding the commitments made in: clause 9.4 of the 
terms and conditions; during the placement of a funds trade on the online confirmation page; 
and in the trade confirmation itself.
Mr F also noted Halifaxs comment that the timing of all funds trades is outside of its control 
and that it couldnt be held liable for any delay in the processing on such trades. If that was 
the case, then the statements made elsewhere by Halifax were misleading, Mr F said, and it 
didnt seem to be the case that it had taken any steps to rectify such contradictions.
Mr F reiterated that the basis of his complaint was that the fund sale was executed on 18 
January 2021, as shown on the trade confirmation, but he now realised that the timestamp of 
midnight was just a placeholder  i.e. it wasnt filled in by the computer system. The time of 
execution would have been the valuation point, which was 12pm. And if that was the case, 
then there was a delay of over 48 hours between the execution of the funds sale and the 
availability of the proceeds in his account, Mr F said, and Halifax hadnt offered an 
explanation for that delay.
The investigator then requested the confirmation from Halifax which it had received from the 
underlying fund manager on 20 January 2021.
Halifax responded to say that it used an outsourced provider (Aegon) for fund trading and 
settlement and it therefore didnt receive any information directly from the fund manager. 
Aegon aggregated orders from all of its institutional clients and therefore there were no 
separate trade confirmations pertaining to just Halifax or any of its individual customers.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
As part of that review, I asked the investigator to enquire further of Halifax as to the actual 
process for its employees to know that they can key in/allocate the funds to a consumers 
account, what the catalyst for this was, e.g. confirmation from Aegon that the sale had been 
processed, and when it had in fact received this.
I also asked as to when the trade confirmation had been produced and provided to Mr F, 
along with clarification of its interpretation of section 7.2 of the SIPP terms, which suggested 
that although the trade may not have been settled by 19 January 2021, Mr F ought to have 
still been able to trade using the funds which would be available by virtue of the actual trade 
which had been executed the day before. 
In response, Halifax said that, whilst reviewing the case, it had established that there was an 
IT issue around the time when Mr Fs executed trade was due to be added to his account.
It had determined that the funds arising from the trade should have been available within this 
account to use on 19 January 2021.
It therefore offered to make a full apology to Mr F, to place him in the position he would 
otherwise have been, had he been able to place his purchase of the further shares on 19 
January 2021, and also to make a further payment of £250 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr F in respect of the matter.But it added, for information, that fund trades didnt work in the same way as equities traded 
and so the funds from the sale in question would never have been available immediately 
after the order was executed. It said that it would need to wait until the trade confirmation 
was received from the underlying fund manager before the sale proceeds were available to 
invest.
The investigator put this offer to Mr F, saying that it seemed to be a reasonable way of 
resolving the matter.
In response, Mr F queried the terms of Halifaxs offer, in particular whether the sum offered 
was intended to be the full settlement or was intended to be paid in addition to adding the 
extra shares in his fund into his account.
Mr F also said that, over the 22 months since he had raised the issue, he had spent 30 to 40 
hours dealing with the complaint. As such, he said, the suggested offer in respect of distress 
and inconvenience didnt seem adequate.
As to Halifaxs comment relating to the timing of funds being available after a fund trade, Mr 
F said that he had never asserted that fund trades worked in the same way as equities 
trades. The suggestion that funds would be available immediately after the sale of a fund 
holding derived of Halifaxs own terms and conditions. If it was instead Halifaxs position that 
it needed to wait until it received the trade confirmation before making the sale proceeds 
available to a client, then it should be obliged by either this service or another regulatory 
body to make this clear to clients in its documentation. Otherwise, it was misleading, Mr F 
said.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im sympathetic to several of the points made by Mr F - both before and 
after the offer was made by Halifax (which I address further below). 
Id firstly say that I think the available evidence  in particular the trade confirmation - 
supports the position that the trade was place, or executed, with the underlying fund 
manager on Monday 18 January 2021 and that after that, it was then a matter of when the 
funds were assigned to Mr Fs SIPP account.
Halifax didnt seem to dispute this. My understanding of its original (and ongoing) point is 
that, whilst the trade may be placed with the underlying fund manager, it can take time for it 
to then receive confirmation of this and then be able to key in or allocate the tradable sale 
proceeds to a customers account.
Mr F has provided evidence of more recent trades when shares that he bought were 
allocated to his account on the date of the trade itself and that he received the trade 
confirmation on the same day. And this might reasonably support the wording within the 
terms relating to the funds being available immediately. 
Mr F has further disputed that there exists a provision within the terms and conditions for his 
SIPP for there to be a delay of several days in which the funds can be allocated to his 
account. The SIPP terms and conditions formed, as Mr F has said, the fundamental basis of 
the contract between him and Halifax.Ive considered those terms as follows:
7. Funding and withdrawing amounts from the account for your SIPP
7.2 Tradable funds are the money held in the account for your SIPP, minus any amounts 
that will be required to settle any buy order that has been executed but not yet settled, plus 
amounts that will be received in respect of any sell order that has been executed but not yet 
settled.
This indicates that, although the trade may not have been settled until 22 January 2021, Mr 
F ought to have still been able to trade using the funds which would be available by virtue of 
the actual trade which had been executed on 18 January 2021.
But as identified by Halifax, the problem here is that, until the confirmation of trade is 
received from the underlying fund manager, Halifax would be unaware of how much money 
had been realised from the sell trade and so how much tradable funds there should be in 
the account.
I think this section might arguably provide for a situation in which a company such as Halifax 
would have received confirmation of the amount which would be received in respect of the 
sell deal, but where the funds couldnt yet be allocated to the account.
But there is then the matter of section 9.
9. Settlement
9.3 Where we carry out a deal for you, so long as you have complied with your obligations, 
the account for your SIPP balance will reflect the cash proceeds and the investments 
relating to that deal on the dealing date, although the cash proceeds of a sale order will only 
become available funds on the settlement date.
Receipt of proceeds on the sale of investments
9.4 If you instruct us to sell investments the net sale proceeds received by us will be credited 
to the account for your SIPP on the dealing date stated on the trade confirmation. For your 
convenience, sales proceeds from sales of investments held in the account for your SIPP 
will count as tradable funds from the date of your order for the purposes of buying other 
investments only. Sales proceeds will not become available funds until the settlement date.
There was provision for the actual settlement date to differ from the date on which the trade 
was placed. The settlement date on the trade confirmation for the disputed transaction in 
January 2021 was 22 January 2021, but as Halifax said in its initial response to Mr Fs 
complaint, although it had until that date to allocate the sale proceeds to Mr Fs account, it 
would endeavour to do so sooner if confirmation from the underlying fund manager was 
received before that date. 
And this is what happened here. Mr Fs account was credited with the sale proceeds on 20 
January 2021  so two days before the settlement date set out on the trade confirmation.
Ive noted Mr Fs original concern that such periods might be open ended and that this 
couldnt be deemed to be a reasonable position. But I dont think thats the case  as 
indicated above, there is a defined settlement date, but if confirmation is received before that 
from the underlying fund manager, the funds can be allocated sooner.
But the issue here isnt about the settlement date, at which points the funds become available and can actually be withdrawn  rather its the point at which there would be 
tradable funds within the SIPP which could be used for reinvestment. And I agree that the 
above terms seem to indicate that there will be tradable funds from the date of the sell 
order.
As commented by Halifax, I think Mr F was sufficiently well informed about the mechanics of 
such transactions that he wouldnt have expected the tradable funds to be available in his 
account on the deal date  Monday 18 January 2021. This is borne out by his own 
comment that he expected there to be tradable funds by 19 January 2021. And Mr F has 
clarified in response to Halifaxs offer that he has never maintained that fund traded work in 
the same way as equities trades. Hes pointed out that it was Halifaxs own terms which 
suggested this.
And I think Mr F has a point. It may not have been possible for Halifax to provide Mr F with 
tradable funds on the deal date itself if it was reliant on information relating to the sale 
proceeds from the third party fund manager. This would mean that Halifax couldnt adhere to 
clause 9.4, due to it being dependent upon the information provided by a third party  the 
fund manager  as to what sale proceeds could be allocated to Mr Fs account. And so in a 
SIPP where many different types of investment may be held, clause 9.4 could be described 
 for situations in which trade proceeds wouldnt immediately be available - as misleading.
Mr F has suggested that either this service  or an alternative regulator body  require 
Halifax to alter its terms and conditions relating to the sale of funds, or at least make it 
clearer how the process might differ for different types of trades. As a service, were unable 
to require Halifax to change its processes  we deal with individual complaints. That would 
be a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority. But Id in any case invite Halifax to consider 
the aspect of the clarity of its terms around different types of trades carefully.
Putting things right
Halifax has now confirmed that Mr Fs trade proceeds ought to have been available to him 
on 19 January 2021. And I think its offer is reasonable  and to clarify, this should put him in 
the position he would otherwise have been, had his subsequent purchase of the further 
shareholding not been delayed. 
This should mean that Mr F will have the correct number of shares in his account, reflecting 
those which he could have bought on 19 January 2021, rather than the number he was 
actually able to buy two days later. In other words, Halifax should reconstruct Mr Fs 
account, and this should also reflect any additional dividends which Mr F would have 
received by way of that higher shareholding.
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr F has said relating to the amount offer for distress 
and inconvenience. We do expect that the pursuit of a complaint may take some time, and 
whilst complaint handling isnt itself a regulated activity, we can consider a general level of 
customer service a business has provided. And in situations where a business has behaved 
unreasonably, we might consider significant awards in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience it may have caused to an individual. 
But I dont think thats the situation here. Ive noted what Mr F has said about the time taken 
to resolve his complaint, and I think its fair to say that Halifax could have reached the 
conclusion it now has in respect of the offer its made to Mr F much sooner  and without Mr 
F needing to refer the matter to this service.
But I need to consider both the individual impact on Mr F and the awards which this service 
might typically make in similar situations. And having done so, whilst I recognise that this has been time consuming for Mr F, I think Halifax has been reasonably communicative and 
responsive in its dealings with Mr F.
As such, and again, taking into account other awards which this service might typically make 
in similar circumstances, I think the amount of £250 is appropriate here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Halifax Share Dealing Limited to 
put Mr F in the position he would otherwise have been but for its error, and to pay him the 
sum of £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman