DRN-4491012
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him poor customer service.
What happened
Mr G says he rang Barclays and during the authentication when he was in the queue, he 
said there was a message informing him that his phone number was registered so he had 
passed security, and they also asked other questions, which he says he passed. When he 
spoke to a call handler who asked for his name and Mr G gave a shortened version of his 
forename and his full surname, Mr G says the call handler told him that he had failed data 
protection and he must ring back. Mr G phoned Barclays again and he complained that he 
never uses his full forename in any authentication process on the phone, and hes never had 
a problem. 
Barclays thanked Mr G for sharing his concerns with them, and his feedback had been 
recorded. Mr G brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld Mr Gs 
complaint. She said Barclays arent able to change his name on their system, as the details 
held need to match his identification documents. She said that as Mr G initially passed the 
telephone verification, she felt further questions could have been asked to confirm that the 
adviser was talking to the right person. She said she was unable to ask Barclays to update 
their systems, so Mr G will need to state his full name moving forward to prevent failing 
security in the future. But as she thought the adviser could have done more, she said 
Barclays should pay Mr G for the inconvenience caused. Mr G asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint as he felt more compensation was proportionate for what happened. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr G that it is not within this services remit to tell a business to make 
changes to their systems to allow preferred names to be included on their systems, or for 
preferred names to automatically pass security. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Barclays to make changes to 
their policies and procedures, if necessary.
I understand Barclays has a duty to ensure they are speaking to the right customer, 
otherwise this would not only compromise their security, but also potentially Mr Gs security if 
someone else was able to access his account. But on this occasion, as Mr G had already 
passed the security before he was connected to a call handler, then when Mr G gave his 
name to the call handler, Im persuaded they should reasonably have known Mr G had 
shortened his forename by a syllable.
But Mr G did not help mitigate what happened here. I say this because the call handler 
asked if that was his full name. And while Mr G may have always used his shortened 
forename, that wasnt what the call handler asked him, he asked for his full name, which Mr 
G didnt give the call handler this information based on the identification they held for him on 
their system. If he had given them his full name, then he would have helped mitigate what 
happened next  him being asked to ring back.
But that being said, I do think the call handler could have done more before he asked Mr G 
to ring back. This is acknowledged by the complaint notes that Barclays have sent me as a 
handler says that the call handler did not ask further questions, and to avoid similar incidents 
in the future they were raising this feedback. 
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. And Im persuaded that 
£30 is proportionate for what happened here. Mr G was inconvenienced by having to call 
back Barclays, but he didnt help mitigate the situation, which is what we would expect him to 
do when he was asked for his full name  not his preferred name. But as the call handler 
could have done more to ensure it was genuinely Mr G he was talking to, especially as the 
pre-call verification appears to have been successful, then it follows Ill be asking Barclays to 
put things right for Mr G.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that Barclays pays Mr G £30 for inconvenience, which I think is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr G £30 for inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman