DRN-1736740
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Phoenix Life Limited wrongly advised him to take out four unit-linked 
investment plans and a whole of life with critical illness policy. He said he had no investment 
experience, no alternatives were discussed, and his circumstances at the time meant he 
didn't need any life or critical illness cover.
What happened
The investment plans were started between 1987 and 1993, and Mr G maintained each of 
them for their full 10-year commitment. He took out the whole of life policy in 1989, stopped 
paying premiums in 1996 and surrendered it in 2003.
Phoenix rejected Mr Gs complaint, saying it was satisfied all five recommendations had 
been suitable. It said most of the plans were paid for by Mr Gs stepfather or his company 
and he was a businessman with a healthy salary by the time of the later plans and so was in 
a position to make these payments into a medium-term savings plan. It said the cost of life 
cover was minimal and simply sufficient to meet the tax-qualifying rules.
An investigator at this service felt there wasnt sufficient evidence to conclude that the 
investment plans had been inappropriate but didnt believe the evidence supported the 
recommendation to take out a life policy with critical illness, particularly given he only had 
five years outstanding on his mortgage.
He felt the advisors record demonstrated the advice was questionable, recording that as Mr 
G already had three investment plans (TPPs): I recommend that he takes out LA this time 
instead of another TPP.' He also said: 'The client at first was not convinced about the need 
for L.A. but eventually saw the benefits, and agreed to take out a LA plan for £100,000.'
This, he said, didnt indicate why Mr G wanted a critical illness plan and it wasnt appropriate 
to make a recommendation for a critical illness policy purely because he already had three 
other investment plans. If the advisor had identified that Mr G had a need for this the 
reasons should have been clearly recorded. He couldnt see any evidence to show how the 
advisor had concluded Mr G needed £100,000 critical illness cover.
Overall, he felt Mr G had been willing to make regular payments into savings plans and, if 
properly advised, he would more likely than not have invested these monthly sums into 
another 10-year investment plan. Redress should therefore be on this basis, using this 
services standard redressed formula.
Phoenix accepted the investigators view.
Mr Gs representative said he still felt the recommendation to take out the investment plans 
had not been suitable, particularly given these included unnecessary life cover. He said Mr G 
was 22 and 23 respectively when the fist two plans were recommended; there had been no 
assessment of his appetite for risk and there was insufficient diversification in the plans. Instead, PEPs would have been more tax efficient given Mr G was a higher rate taxpayer, 
the lower charges, and the absence of life insurance deductions. The returns had been 
appalling, primarily due to the unnecessary life cover costs.
The investigator said that Mr G had previous investment and didnt accept the investments 
were too risky. Given the dates of the investments, he said Phoenix should use the Bank of 
England base rate plus 1% as the basis for calculating Mr Gs potential loss re the unsuitable 
life insurance policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and mainly for the same reasons.
As Phoenix has now agreed to pay compensation in relation to the life insurance policy, and 
using the formula this service recommends, I will not comment further on this issue other 
than to say I agree with the investigators assessment.
When looking at the recommended savings plans, its important to explain that my job is to 
decide whether a business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake, not whether it 
might have done things differently (such as made a different recommendation).
In this context I do not think there is sufficient evidence to safely conclude that the advisor 
did offer poor or unsuitable advice. As Phoenix said, the cost of the life cover was small 
given Mr Gs age, and designed to deliver tax-efficient returns. I therefore dont believe this 
in itself renders recommendations unreasonable.
There is no evidence to suggest Mr G was not in a position to commit to the 10 year time 
periods, particularly given he did not personally pay towards many of the plans. I am also 
satisfied that his money was put in sufficiently diversified funds. The fact that other products 
such as PEPs might have been equally appropriate and might, with hindsight, have delivered 
higher returns does not mean these plans were unsuitable at the time.
Putting things right
I instruct Phoenix Life to compare the amount Mr G received when he surrendered his life 
policy with what he would have got if the same monthly payments had delivered a return 
equivalent to the Bank of Englands base rate plus 1%. If this shows a loss, it must pay this 
and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of surrender to the date of settlement 
of this complaint. It should deduct the appropriate tax from the 8% interest only. Depending 
on his circumstances, Mr G may be able to reclaim this from HMRC.
My final decision
I therefore instruct Phoenix Life Limited to pay compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman