DRN-1616366
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave him incorrect information about its policy 
relating to consent to let on a mortgage.
What happened
Mr M had a residential mortgage with Lloyds. The mortgage had a fixed rate of interest until 
November 2019.
In August 2018, due to a change in his circumstances, Mr M applied to Lloyds for permission 
to let out his property. Lloyds agreed to Mr Ms request and wrote to him on 21 August 2018 
confirming this. It explained the consent would initially run until the end of November 2019 
and set out the terms of its agreement  which included that the mortgage could not be 
transferred to another mortgage product while the consent was in place.
After this, in September 2018, Mr M contacted the mortgage advisor at Lloyds who had 
helped with his initial mortgage application, as he had some further questions about the 
consent to let. The mortgage adviser incorrectly told Mr M that he would be able to apply to 
switch interest rate products when his existing deal expired, even if the consent to let was in 
place. 
Mr M contacted Lloyds in September 2019 to ask about switching rates, as his fixed rate was 
due to in November 2019. Lloyds said he was unable to switch while the consent to let was 
in place.
Mr M complained to Lloyds that hed been provided incorrect information by the mortgage 
advisor hed spoken to. As a result, he felt he should be allowed to switch to a new rate.
Lloyds acknowledged that Mr M had been given incorrect information. It paid him £300 for 
the upset caused by this. But it didnt agree to allow a rate switch as, although incorrect 
information had been provided, it had applied its policy correctly.
Unhappy with this response Mr M complained to our service. He said if he hadnt been given 
this incorrect information he may not have gone ahead with the consent to let and could 
instead have looked at re-mortgaging on a buy-to-let basis or sold the property. Mr M said he 
had now re-mortgaged to another lender.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He agreed that Lloyds provided incorrect 
information. But he felt that the £300 already paid by Lloyds was a fair resolution to the 
complaint as he felt Lloyds had applied its policy correctly.
Mr M did not agree. He said that he had no reason to think that the information provided by 
the adviser was incorrect. He said hed proceeded with his plans based on this incorrect 
information and due to this he wouldve incurred a significant cost over the remaining term. 
Hed lessened this loss by moving to another lender but still felt it had caused him to incur 
additional cost.
As Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has provided us with details of its consent to let policy. Having reviewed this Im 
satisfied this shows that, at the point Mr M applied for consent to let and when he later came 
to request a new interest rate deal, Lloyds policy was that it would not allow a new interest 
rate product while consent was in place.
Ive also seen evidence that indicates this was explained to Mr M before he applied for 
consent to let. Lloyds records show Mr M applied for this online in August 2018. Ive seen 
the declaration he wouldve been required to complete when doing so  and system notes 
indicating he agreed to this declaration. This included acknowledging that his mortgage 
would remain on its current product for the letting period and that if the interest rate product 
expired while the property was let, the mortgage would revert to the relevant variable rate 
without the option of being able to apply for a new product. This was confirmed in the letter 
Lloyds sent him on 21 August 2018, confirming it had agreed to his request.
Based on this information, Im satisfied that when Lloyds declined his request to switch to a 
new interest rate product it was acting in line with its lending policy. And that Mr M was not 
treated differently to any other customers. So, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly.
It isnt in dispute that, in email correspondence with a mortgage advisor at Lloyds in 
September 2018, Mr M was provided conflicting, incorrect information about Lloyds policy. I 
do though note this was a month after hed applied for consent to let and hed already been 
provided with information about Lloyds policy.
As it isnt in dispute that an error was made by Lloyds, Ive gone on to think about what the 
fair way to address that error is. 
Although incorrect information was provided, I dont think itd be reasonable to require Lloyds 
to effectively make that true, by honouring something Im satisfied Mr M was never entitled 
to. So, again I dont think Lloyds was wrong when it declined the request for a new interest 
rate.
Mr M has said that if he had been given correct information in September 2018 he mayve 
acted differently  either by applying for a buy-to-let mortgage to replace his existing 
mortgage or by selling the property outright. But both of those wouldve resulted in him 
incurring an early repayment charge as his existing mortgage was still within its fixed rate 
period. So, I think it is unlikely hed have done this.
Mr Ms existing mortgage interest rate deal expired at the end of November 2019. And he 
and Lloyds has confirmed he then re-mortgaged to another lender at the start of December 
2019. On balance I think if he hadnt been incorrectly informed of Lloyds policy, this is still 
the likely the course of action he would always have taken, as this meant that no early 
repayment charge would be paid and that he could continue to let the property, with a 
different interest rate to Lloyds standard variable rate, which seems to be what Mr M 
wanted.
Mr M said that, not finding out about this incorrect information until September 2019 meant 
he had to act quickly to find a new mortgage elsewhere and that this led to him paying a 
higher fee than he might otherwise have done. I dont doubt that having a shorter time frame to apply for an alternative mortgage wouldve made matters more stressful than they needed 
to be. But as Ive said, I think this is likely what he would always have done  completed his 
fixed rate under the consent to let and then re-mortgaged elsewhere. So, Im satisfied hed 
have always likely needed to pay a fee to a new lender. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the shortened time frame prevented Mr M from applying for any particular 
mortgages. So, I dont agree that this caused him to incur a higher fee than he would 
otherwise have done. And overall therefore, I dont think the incorrect information provided 
by Lloyds has caused him to incur any costs that he otherwise wouldnt have.
I dont doubt that it was upsetting form Mr M to find out that hed been provided with incorrect 
information. And as Ive said, I imagine this caused him some inconvenience in terms of 
having to arrange his new mortgage more quickly in 2019. But in the circumstances, I think 
the £300 already paid by Lloyds is a fair and reasonable way to address the upset caused. 
So, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I dont think Lloyds needs to do 
any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman