DRN-3885565
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt 
complete enough affordability checks before approving her Safety Net facility. She said the 
facility put her into a cycle of re-borrowing where as soon as shed paid her facility, shed 
need to borrow again in order to cover her bills.
 
What happened
Ms M approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in June 2018. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Ms M was not advanced a payday loan. 
Ms M was initially given a facility with a £300 credit limit on 18 June 2018. Her limit was 
increased on a further six occasions with her final increase  taking the credit limit to £1,000 
by October 2019. Ms Ms credit limit was then decreased on two occasions, taking her limit 
to £910 in April 2022.  
SNCs statement of account shows that as of November 2022 an outstanding balance 
remains due. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ms complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried 
out before granting this facility were likely proportionate and show didnt uphold the 
complaint about the facility being granted or the credit limit increases that took Ms Ms limit 
to £1,000. 
The adjudicator also concluded that due to the way Ms M used the facility, SNC should have 
prevented Ms M from taking further drawdowns after 15 October 2020. At this point in time, 
the adjudicator was concerned at the way Ms M was using the facility as Ms M would appear 
to repay what was owed and then come back fairly quickly for further borrowing.  The 
complaint was partly upheld. 
Ms M acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment and she didnt have anything 
further to add. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment, and Ive summarised its comments below.  
There were periods of time when Ms M didnt use the facility to its fullest extent. 
There are also times when Ms M didnt drawdown on the facility for a number of 
months. 
Ms M had a sufficient amount of disposable income each month to afford the 
repayments.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
SNC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M could 
repay the facility in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that SNC was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay the facility  not just whether the facility was 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the facility being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
To start with, Ms M wasnt given a payday loan. Instead, she was provided with a credit 
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintains read-only access to 
their bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumer finance and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Ms Ms expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Ms Ms facility was approved for £300 SNC needed to satisfy itself that 
Ms M would be in a position to make the repayment of £20, by carrying out a proportionate 
check. 
As Ms M appears to have accepted the outcome that was reached by the adjudicator. So, I 
no longer think SNCs decision to approve the facility is in dispute. Neither do I think are the 
credit limit increases up to £1,000 are in dispute. As no dispute remains, I wont be making a 
finding about those aspects of the complaint. 
Instead, this decision will focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Ms Ms facility whilst 
she held it and whether there was a point which SNC should have halted any further 
borrowing on it. The adjudicator suggested this point was in reached in October 2020. At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in 
CONC and how it applies to this case. 
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Ms Ms use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC had a good indication of Ms Ms actual financial position, because 
throughout the time of her having the facility it had read-only access to her bank account. I 
also think, by October 2020 SNC had seen enough to have realised that Ms Ms repayment 
of the facility was now unsustainable. 
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Ms M to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Ms M returned for further borrowing. After all, if Ms M was 
drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from her account this ought 
to have indicated that SNC was causing her to once again borrow the funds that SNC had 
just taken. 
By monitoring the facility  as it was required to do, SNC wouldve realised that Ms M would 
typically repay her facility, and then within a day or so, shed draw back up to her available 
credit limit. But this pattern had been ongoing since the start of the lending relationship. 
I accept that in this time there were two periods where Ms M wasnt indebted to SNC.  These 
are between October 2018 and April 2019 and then between May 2020 to August 2020. 
However, while this may show, that for these periods, Ms M didnt have a need for credit. I 
dont think it undermines the point that Ive made about how Ms M used the facility between 
its inception and the uphold point of October 2020. 
When considering all of the information SNC had available to it about Ms Ms circumstances 
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by October 2020, it was 
clear that the facility had become unsustainable - and simply collecting the full outstanding 
balance on the account and then allowing Ms M to once again borrow the funds that had 
been recently collected was detrimental to her financial situation. 
For example, in September 2020, Ms M over the course of the month borrowed £2,000 from 
SNC and made repayments of £2,232. The amount Ms M repaid was actually the same as 
her monthly income  and on top of this she still had living costs to pay such as repaying 
another personal loan and a credit card. A similar patter can also be observed in 
February 2020  she repaid SNC over £1,500 against an income of around £1,800.
After the point that the complaint has been upheld, the above pattern broadly continued, I 
accept that Ms M didnt always fully utilise the available credit but she still on a regular basis 
returned for further funds after SNC had collected its payment. It isnt clear to me, how SNC thought Ms M would be able to manage her monthly finances, 
when there are times, as demonstrated above, where almost of all her income would be 
used to repay the facility. She would then have no choice but to return to SNC for further 
credit, in order to fill the hole in her finances, caused by making the payments to it. 
So, when SNC allowed Ms M to continue using the facility after October 2020, Ms M had 
demonstrated that she wasnt using the facility as SNC had intended, she was borrowing 
down and repaying the facility in the same month, and therefore was in effect taking multiple 
payday loans because she wasnt benefiting from or making use of the interest free period of 
time. 
Overall and having thought about everything I think that SNC shouldve proactively 
intervened and contacted Ms M to arrange for her to repay what she owed within a 
reasonable period of time.
 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 
15 October 2020.
B) Treat all payments Ms M has made towards their account since 15 October 2020 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Ms M wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms M. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Ms Ms credit file 
from 15 October 2020.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Ms M as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman