DRN-3896274
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C have complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). 
They arent happy about the way it dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as LV are responsible for it, Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mrs and Mr C had a problem in relation to subsidence and made a claim under their home 
insurance policy a number of years ago. They complained to LV and this Service about the 
ongoing delay in dealing with their claim and the poor service they have received.   
They have been in alternative accommodation for a prolonged period of time and have 
complained to this Service as they feel LV have delayed their claim and caused them a fair 
degree of stress and inconvenience. Mrs and Mr C maintain that the subsidence at the 
property hasnt been fixed to a satisfactory standard and feel that the methods of repair 
suggested by LV in relation to their bay windows is unnecessary. 
Our Investigator looked into things for Mrs and Mr C but didnt uphold their complaint. 
Although he sympathised with the difficult position they had found themselves in he didnt 
think LV had acted unfairly. He acknowledged that the claim was difficult and drawn out, but 
he thought LVs suggested way forward (to look again at the subsidence issue and to repair 
the bay windows in line with building control guidance) seemed fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs and Mr C didnt agree and sent a lot of further information which they felt supported their 
position. But, having considered this our investigator maintained that LV had acted 
reasonably. 
As Mrs and Mr C still didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can understand how all of this has impacted greatly on Mrs and Mr C. They 
have been out of their home for a prolonged period of time and Im sure the claim has had 
an effect on their quality of life. However, a lot of the difficulties they have faced stem from 
the claim itself and the entrenched position taken. In looking to advance this complaint Ill 
look to focus on the key remaining issues and the advancement of the claim.
I also think its really important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the 
information provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something 
thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it 
relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but 
merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This 
also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
Although I can understand why Mrs and Mr C have lost faith in how the claim has been dealt 
with to date I dont think LVs suggestions of how to move the claim forward are 
unreasonable. And I know they are frustrated with the time taken to resolve the claim, which 
has inevitably had a negative impact on the house which has lay empty, but I think they 
couldve engaged with the proposed repairs earlier which would have moved the claim on. 
Mrs and Mr C dont feel that the subsidence problems have been fully addressed to date. 
But LV has agreed to look into this and to undertake further work to ensure stability if 
necessary which seems reasonable. And LV will provide the relevant guarantees for any 
work undertaken which I would expect to be long lasting. 
However, it appears the major sticking point and reason why the property hasnt been 
repaired relates to how repairs to the bay window should be undertaken. I understand that 
Mrs and Mr C arent happy about the proposals LV have made here which has significantly 
delayed matters. But LV has outlined that it needs to progress the repairs to the bay 
windows in the way it has suggested in order to meet building control regulations and to 
advance the claim as a whole which seems reasonable. 
I know Mrs and Mr C dispute this and feel that their own method of repair is sufficient. But LV 
has agreed to allow them to instruct their own firm to fit and supply the windows which LV 
will pay for in order to move the claim forward. However, understandably, LV has said that it 
would be Mrs and Mr Cs responsibility to gain building control sign off and to take 
responsibility for any issues that may arise from choosing this way forward in relation to the 
bay windows only. And LV would want to see appropriate priced quotations for the work 
which seems reasonable. 
I know Mrs and Mr C havent accepted this as a way forward, although I havent been given 
a detailed reason why, but this seems a fair way to advance things. I say this as this seems 
to be the main sticking point that is preventing the work and claim moving forward. And as 
LV as highlighted I dont think it would be fair for LV to have to pay for alternative 
accommodation indefinitely. 
Turning to a few of the other issues Mrs and Mr C have raised in their complaint which has 
impacted their health. Again, I have some sympathy for the difficult circumstances Mrs and 
Mr C have faced. But given they could have agreed a way forward with LV before now I dont 
think I can hold it responsible for all the continuing difficulties they have faced. 
I know there have been difficulties in relation to the property being left empty which is 
understandable. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to say that LV was responsible for the 
property being broken into (such as leaving the property insecure). And any outstanding 
damage or remedial work will be rectified once the bay window is reinstated and the claim 
moved forward. I know Mrs and Mr C were also worried about the fact they could end up 
homeless and forced to move out of the AA, but I think LV acted reasonably in looking to 
ensure the AA was appropriate and reasonable. The landlord of the AA needed to undertake 
some work on the property and LV agreed to pay an increased rent for a period in order to 
ensure they could stay in the property, having tried to secure other AA in the area, which 
seems fair in the circumstances. And I note that Mrs and Mr C have faced other issues, such 
as increased costs. But LV has paid for a larger detached property for a significant period of 
time and given the contribution Mrs and Mr C have made to the delays I think they have 
acted more than reasonably here. Given all of this, I think LV has acted fairly. Ill simply leave it to Mrs and Mr C to agree a way 
forward with LV so that the claim can be finalised as soon as practicable, especially as I 
understand the cost of AA has already exceeded the policy limit. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman