DRN-3144911
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under his parts and garage cover insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for 
it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr M had a problem with his car that he thought was related to the tracking. As he was near 
to a garage and just believed the problem was minor and in relation to the tracking on his car 
he called into the garage. To his surprise his car had a problem with the rear axle so he 
contacted Acromas Insurances agent in order that they could consider the claim and inspect 
the vehicle if necessary.
But Acromas declined the claim. It said Mr M should have contacted its agent and any claim 
could only follow a breakdown recovery drivers attendance as outlined under the policy 
terms and conditions. 
Mr M complained about this and said that given the seemingly minor nature of the claim 
initially and the pandemic this seemed excessive. The agent advised Mr M that he should 
call Acromas about every incident or issue with his car no matter how minor the problem was 
in order to make a claim under the policy. As Mr M remained unhappy about this he 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M but didnt uphold his complaint. She accepted 
that Acromas hadnt done anything wrong as it simply followed its terms and conditions in 
declining the claim. And as Mr M didnt call for a breakdown agent before taking the car to a 
garage and having the problem diagnosed the claim was excluded.
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M, but Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr M feels frustrated, but he was fully aware that he needed to make 
contact with Acromas in order to report any problems before taking the car to a garage to be 
checked or repaired. Mr M was very clear that he knew about this and how the policy 
operated during his first call to Acromas when he called to try and claim. He explained that 
he knew he hadnt followed the correct process but hoped the claim would still be 
considered. 
But Mr Ms policy was linked to his breakdown policy and served to support certain repairs 
following any breakdown of his car. The policy isnt a general motor warranty for his car. And 
the terms and conditions, which Mr M was fully aware of, make it clear that he needed to 
contact Acromas in the first instance. The policy says that Acromas will not meet a claim 
when You referred the failure to a garage before You called for assistance and says the 
policy would pay towards the costs of repair or replacement to insured parts, labour and 
VAT following a Breakdown which occurs during the Period of Insurance' which is very clear.
I understand Mr Ms general point that he wanted to limit contact during the pandemic, but 
he hadnt broken down. He just felt the problem was minor and dropped into the garage, so I 
dont think he was looking to avoid extra contact during the pandemic here. It is clear from 
his telephone calls that Mr M just thought he had a minor problem and that is why he went to 
his local garage. But the policy doesnt cover issues identified by his own garage, perhaps 
when a car is generally checked over or serviced, not approved by Acromas following a 
breakdown.
Given all of this and the terms and conditions of the policy, that Mr M was fully aware of, I 
dont think it would be fair on Acromas to step outside these now by asking it to consider the 
claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman