DRN-2083795
The complaint
Mr M complains that Frank G Gates Ltd (Gates) mis-sold him a payment protection
insurance policy (PPI).
What happened
In 2006, Mr M took out finance to buy a vehicle. At the same time Gates sold him a single 
premium PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She thought the insurance policy wasnt suitable for
Mr M and Gates shouldnt have recommended it to him. Gates disagreed. It says that it 
would have explained the insurance to Mr M and he would have understood what he was 
buying. Gates also argued that the insurance was right for Mr M and provided him with 
useful benefits.
As Gates didnt agree with our adjudicators view this complaint has now been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint and I explain why below.
Gates recommended this policy to Mr M. So, it had the responsibility to take steps to make 
sure that it was right for him. Having looked at the information about the policy and Mr Ms 
circumstances, I dont think Gates did this.
Mr M has told us that at the time of the sale he was in secure employment and the company 
he worked for offered a sickness package.
I think its unlikely Mr M had enough information to decide whether the policy offered value 
for money or that Gates took this into account when recommending the policy to him. 
Although Gates did set out the cost of the policy within the finance agreement, very little 
information is shown about the specific benefits of the policy. For example, that Mr M was 
only able to claim for 12 months in relation to unemployment.
Given the cost of the policy over the full term and the limits to the length of a claim, whilst Mr 
M could potentially make use of the policy, I think it was quite limited when it came to 
unemployment cover.
I would have expected Gates to draw this information to Mr Ms attention when the policy 
was being sold, and to also to take this into account when determining whether the policy 
was suitable for his needs. I cant see enough evidence that this was done.
I think Mr M lost out because of what Gates did wrong.
Putting things right
Mr M should be put back into the position he wouldve been in if he hadnt bought the policy.
So, Gates must:
Refund the premiums Mr M paid for the policy.
Add simple interest to the amount Mr M paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back (the rate of interest is 8% a year).
HM Revenue & Customs requires Gates to take off tax from this interest. Gates must give Mr
M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Frank G
Gates Ltd to pay him compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman