DRN-3607415
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with U K Insurance Limiteds (UKIs) handling of a claim he made for 
subsidence damage to his property.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022, explaining that I was intending 
to partially uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
again in full detail here. But to summarise:
Mr W noticed cracking damage at his property in 2007. He commissioned a 
visual inspection by a structural engineer, who concluded that the property 
was suffering from minor subsidence.
In 2013 Mr W reported the claim to UKI. It appointed a firm of subsidence 
specialists to assess the claim on its behalf. They completed a visual 
inspection and concluded the property wasnt suffering from subsidence, but 
lateral movement. Based on this Mr Ws claim was refused.
UKI told Mr W he needed to carry out structural repairs in order for it to renew 
and continue cover. UKI says it wrote to Mr W several times to check whether 
this had been done but received no response until after the policy had been 
allowed to lapse.
In 2017 Mr W instructed a builder to come and price the repair works UKI told 
him he needed to carry out. The builder refused to do any works as he 
believed the property was suffering from ongoing subsidence. He 
recommended Mr W should obtain a structural survey.
In 2018 Mr W obtained a structural survey which concluded the damage was 
as a result of ongoing, progressive subsidence, likely due to a leak from the 
below ground drainage. Mr W reported this to UKI and it agreed to carry out a 
drainage survey and monitoring for three months before reviewing its claim 
decision. Following this, it maintained its decision to decline the claim as it 
said there was no progressive movement evidenced.
A separate complaint, regarding the claim decision, was brought to our 
service. At around the same time Mr W obtained further comments from his 
surveyor stating three months wasnt sufficient time for monitoring and 
maintaining their conclusions regarding the ongoing subsidence.
Our investigator recommended that an independent surveyor should be 
appointed to decisively conclude whether or not there was subsidence at 
Mr Ws property. This was accepted and that complaint with our service was 
closed. 
An independent surveyor was appointed who considered all reports and 
evidence which had been gathered previously as well as carrying out their 
own site visit. They concluded that the property had clearly been experiencing 
ongoing, progressive subsidence, since at least 2007.
UKI agreed to accept and settle the claim for subsidence damage. It also 
reimbursed Mr W for the surveyors fees he had incurred. And, following a 
complaint from Mr W, it paid 8% simple interest on that amount from the date 
Mr W was out of pocket to the date he was reimbursed. UKI also accepted 
that the claim journey and level of service Mr W had been provided had been 
poor. It offered him £3,000 compensation to reflect this. 
The above offer is the subject of this complaint. Mr W feels that £3,000 is too low and 
doesnt sufficiently recognise the impact of UKIs errors. He also feels he should be 
compensated for loss of rent, loss of earnings and time spent administering the 
claim. Overall, he is seeking costs in the region of £230,000.
Another of our investigators considered this complaint. She concluded that UKIs 
offer of compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr W didnt 
accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
There has been extensive background to this complaint, and numerous issues raised 
at various points, as the claim has been ongoing since 2013. In this decision, Ill 
focus on what I believe to be the key issues, based on the evidence and arguments I 
have seen, rather than commenting specifically on every issue. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy to either side, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my 
role within it. But in reaching my decision, I have considered everything that both 
sides have said and provided.
It isnt in dispute that UKIs claim decision in 2013 was incorrect, nor that the level of 
investigations it completed to reach the decision were inadequate. It also isnt in 
dispute that the decision to maintain the repudiation in 2018 was incorrect. UKI has 
accepted all of this. It has accepted it is responsible for covering the claim for 
damage caused by subsidence, it has reimbursed Mr W for his surveyors costs and 
it has made an offer of compensation. 
Mr W is seeking to be compensated for both financial loss and the distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered as a result of UKIs mistakes. Ill consider these 
elements separately.
Financial loss
Mr W says he has experienced financial loss in several ways as a result of UKI 
incorrectly declining his claim in 2013, and again in 2018.Mr W says that had the claim been accepted in 2013 as it ought to have been, he 
would have been able to rent out the property from 2015. He says he would have 
rented it as a house in multiple occupation (HMO) at a rental value of £1,325 per 
month.
I appreciate Mr Ws assertion that his intention was to rent the property in the future. 
But as I understand it, at the time of the claim and since, this property has been 
Mr Ws primary residence. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that he has ever rented 
it out or sought to do so. Nor have I seen any evidence to confirm that it could have 
been rented as an HMO or at what rate. And, given it is Mr Ws primary residence, if 
he intended to rent it out, he would have incurred costs residing elsewhere too.
Based on all of the above, I dont consider that Mr W has suffered a loss of rent as 
hes suggested. So, Im not minded to make an award for these alleged, hypothetical 
losses.
Mr W has also suggested that his property should be classed as an asset to his 
business. But due to UKIs mistake, he says hes been unable to take advantage of 
the asset and thus, it has become a liability. So, he feels UKI should contribute 
toward the cost of his mortgage. 
Again, the evidence suggests that this property is Mr Ws primary residence. So, in 
my view, Mr W would always have been responsible for paying the mortgage, in his 
personal capacity. So, Im not minded to make an award for these costs either.
Mr W says he has suffered an actual financial loss as a result of the time he has 
spent administering the claim and complaint, including lost earnings when attending 
site visits and time spent communicating with UKI and its agents. Hes calculated this 
time to be 13 full days and says he considers £150 per day to be a fair amount.
In order for me to compensate for actual financial loss, Id need to see evidence of 
those losses and that they were solely due to UKI. In this case, Ive seen nothing to 
confirm Mr Ws stated rate of pay, nor anything to show that he actually incurred 
these losses on the dates specified, or solely due to UKI. 
In any event, 10 of the 13 days Mr W has specified are for attending site visits, 
investigation meetings etc. While I appreciate that he likely needed to attend a 
slightly higher number of these meetings, owing to UKIs mistakes, Mr W would 
always have been required to make himself available for the majority of these visits  
even if everything had gone as it should have done from the outset. Some level of 
inconvenience is to be expected when making a building insurance claim, and this 
isnt necessarily the fault of the insurer. So, even if Id been provided with persuasive 
evidence of Mr Ws alleged losses, which I havent, I wouldnt consider it fair to 
compensate in the manner, or for the timeframe, he has suggested.
That said, spending time communicating on, or attending visits, for a claim which ran 
for much longer than it should have, and was incorrectly declined initially, would 
clearly have been frustrating. So, Ill consider the impact of this in the distress and 
inconvenience section below.
Distress and inconvenience
UKI accepts that its initial claim decisions were wrong and that, even after being 
presented with additional expert evidence, it took too long for the claim to be 
accepted. It has acknowledged and apologised for this and has offered £3,000 
compensation for the impact of its errors.Mr W has explained the impact UKIs mistake has had on him since UKIs incorrect 
repudiation of his claim in 2013. He says living in a house full of cracks has seriously 
reduced his enjoyment of the property. He also says the knowledge that his property 
was uninsured as a result of UKI refusing to continue cover unless he carried out 
repairs, valued in the tens of thousands of pounds (which UKI actually should always 
have been responsible for), has caused him a great deal of stress and has 
significantly contributed to the deterioration of his mental health. He says he should 
be awarded compensation of £50 per day, for each day between UKIs initial 
incorrect repudiation of the claim and the date it agreed to accept the claim. This 
amounts to around £140,000.
I should first highlight that when considering compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, Ive considered everything thats happened in order to decide what 
level of award is fair, overall, to put right the impact of UKIs mistakes. The award I 
consider to be appropriate is to compensate for the level of impact to Mr W. It is not 
designed to punish UKI for having made the errors, or to act as a form of deterrent 
(as Mr W has suggested it ought to).
The award I make here will not be calculated based on a daily or hourly rate. Rather 
Ill consider the overall impact the businesss mistake has had on Mr W to decide on 
a fair and reasonable amount of compensation, overall. Ive also considered the 
actions of Mr W and whether he did all he could to mitigate the impact of the 
businesss error.
I accept that Mr W has experienced distress and inconvenience for the entire period 
of time he has put forward. However, by his own admission, he initially accepted 
UKIs claim decision (despite disagreeing with it) and didnt make any attempt to 
challenge it again until 2018  some five years later. It was only at this stage that 
Mr W discovered UKIs decision had been incorrect, based on the opinion of his 
builder and subsequent surveyor. And it was only from this point that he resumed his 
attempts to have the claim investigated and paid. So, I think its fair to say that the 
level of inconvenience Mr W has suffered was greater between 2018 and 2021 than 
it was between 2013 and 2018. But that isnt to say that Mr W wasnt impacted at all 
between 2013 and 2018, I think its clear that he was. 
In terms of the impact of the cracking Mr W had to live with, I can understand that this 
would have reduced his ability to enjoy his property. But Im also mindful of the fact 
that the cracks werent so significant that they caused the property to be 
uninhabitable. So, despite some loss of enjoyment, Mr W was still able to live in his 
home during this period.
UKI has said in reaching the £3,000 figure, it considered the fact that Mr W didnt 
dispute the initial repudiation for five years. Mr W says he wasnt in a position to do 
so. He says he couldnt afford to carry out the repairs, which UKI erroneously told 
him were his responsibility, until 2017. And it was only at this point that he obtained 
further expert opinion stating UKIs decision was incorrect. Hes also explained that 
his mental health deteriorated during this time, which he attributes to UKIs claim 
decision and the worry of having an uninsured property which he couldnt afford to 
fix.Ive thought carefully about this point. I accept that Mr W was prompted to resume his 
claim and complaint by the comments of his builder in 2017. But by his own 
admission, he disagreed with the claim decision when it was made at the time. So, I 
think Mr W could have complained to UKI about it at the time, and/or approached our 
service, free of charge, as he has done now. So, like our investigator, I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to hold UKI solely responsible for the full length of time 
the claim has taken to get to this stage.
That having been said, its clear that everything thats happened has stemmed from 
UKIs initial error. And when it was given the chance to review that error in 2018, it 
compounded its mistake by carrying out inadequate further investigations and 
maintaining its incorrect decision. All the while Mr W was left unable to fully enjoy his 
home, stressed and worried about the fact that he couldnt insure or repair it, and 
needing to spend time and effort fighting to get his claim accepted  as it appears it 
should have been from the outset, based on the weight of expert opinion. And in 
Mr Ws particular circumstances, the impact of these errors was greater than it might 
have been to others, owing to his health issues.
Having carefully considered everything that happened, alongside everything Mr W 
has told about the impact to him, I dont think UKIs offer of £3,000 goes far enough. I 
think Mr W has suffered distress and inconvenience, as well as pain and suffering (in 
terms of the ongoing impact to his mental health) over a period of many years, 
because of UKIs mistakes. For these reasons, Im currently minded to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint, in part, and to direct UKI to increase the compensation to £5,000. 
I appreciate this amount is significantly lower than Mr W is seeking. But having 
carefully considered the circumstances of the complaint, in my view, its sufficient to 
fairly reflect the impact I think has solely been caused by UKI.
I said I was intending to direct UKI to pay Mr W a total £5,000 compensation, for the impact 
of its poor handling of his claim since 2013.
I asked both sides to send me any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI said it disagreed with my provisional decision. It questioned why Id focused solely on 
the length of time the claim took and not commented on the fact that it took Mr W around five 
years from first noticing damage to bring his claim. It said it fully accepted mistakes were 
made but overall, it feels the £3,000 offered is fair and reasonable.
Mr W also disagreed with my provisional decision. He raised several points in response 
which Ill summarise below. But as with my provisional decision, Ill not respond to each and 
every point raised. Ill focus only on those which are material to reaching a fair and 
reasonable decision. Again, this isnt meant as a discourtesy to Mr W, it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr W said:
He disagrees that he didnt contact UKI prior to his policy lapsing and says he has 
provided evidence to show that he did.
His complaint has evolved since he submitted it, but I have considered it in its initial 
iteration. Hes no longer seeking to claim for loss of rent. The costs hes seeking 
amount to £142,150 plus whatever I consider to be a fair amount of compensation for 
the inconvenience to his business.In terms of his claim for inconvenience to his business, Ive focused too much on 
actual financial loss and mortgage costs, what he is seeking is compensation for 
impact to his business as a result of UKIs handling of his claim.
He provided information regarding his earnings in 2012 which were significantly 
higher than £150 per day. So, he says he feels hes been generous to only request 
that amount.
Additional investigations and site visits werent required. If his claim could be 
declined based on a visual inspection, it stands to reason it could have been 
accepted also.
He didnt complain about the decision to decline the claim in 2013 because he felt he 
had already given it his best shot in providing an engineers report. Ive also made 
the assumption that he knew about our service, but UKI didnt signpost him to us 
when it declined his claim, and so he wasnt aware and couldnt have come to us at 
the time.
He says I have the ability to facilitate remorse on the part of UKI by awarding a 
higher amount of compensation. The impact on him continues to this day.
He feels the award will allow UKI to set a new precedent for calculating annual 
compensation. He also feels the award I have made has only been made so that it 
fits within one of our services published award brackets.
Hes concerned that the wording of my award (a total amount of £5,000) could 
prevent UKI from considering compensation on any future complaint he may need to 
bring.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the additional comments and evidence provided in response to 
my provisional decision. As both sides provided responses, Ill address each in turn below.
UKIs response
UKI has highlighted that it took Mr W five years from noticing damage to bring his claim and 
a further five years from the initial repudiation to challenge it. It also says Mr W took several 
months to respond to communications about the renewal.
I fully considered these aspects of the claim history when reaching my provisional 
conclusions. Mr W has explained that after discovering the damage initially, he wasnt in a 
suitable financial position to bring his claim. While I accept that the terms of the policy may 
have allowed UKI to refuse to deal with the claim based on this, the fact is that it didnt. It 
decided to investigate the claim and subsequently incorrectly declined it  leading to the 
sequence of events that resulted in this complaint. I dont think UKI can fairly use the fact 
that it decided not to refuse the claim, based on late notification, as any sort of mitigation for 
the impact of the errors it later made.Similarly, I considered Mr W took around five years after the repudiation to challenge it, and I 
commented on this in my provisional decision. Mr W has explained that his health 
deteriorated, and his financial position remained poor, so he wasnt able to instruct a builder 
to carry out the repairs which hed incorrectly been told he was responsible for. It was only 
when he was well enough, and financially able to begin the process of the repairs, that he 
discovered there was likely still ongoing subsidence at his property. 
Ultimately, I think UKI are partly responsible for the five-year period, between the initial 
repudiation and the challenge, as well as being mostly responsible for the overall length of 
time this claim took to be correctly accepted, from the point it was initially raised. So, UKIs 
points havent changed my provisional conclusions. 
Mr Ws response
Mr W says he has evidenced that UKI is incorrect to say he didnt contact it prior to his 
renewal date. Hes provided an automatic response he received to an online enquiry he sent 
on 6 December 2013 which was three days prior to his renewal date. He also says he made 
numerous unsuccessful attempts to make contact by phone but was kept on hold for long 
periods before the calls were disconnected. Mr W says UKI is the party at fault for his policy 
lapsing, not himself.
Ive not seen any supporting evidence that Mr W made calls to UKI at the time. Nor have I 
seen evidence of what the online enquiry said. But based on the evidence, I do accept that 
Mr W contacted UKI prior to his policy lapsing.
The reason Mr Ws policy lapsed was because the remedial works required hadnt yet been 
completed. Its now apparent that it shouldnt have been left to Mr W to carry out this work. 
UKI has accepted the claim and will be carrying out the required repairs.
In addition to settling the claim, I think UKI ought to be prepared to offer Mr W cover moving 
forward (subject to him paying the relevant premiums for it). I think any policy it offers should 
be priced as if Mr W was an existing customer with a previous subsidence claim, rather than 
a new external customer with a subsidence claim. I say this because if everything had gone 
as it should have from the outset, the claim would have been accepted in 2013 and UKI 
would have been required to offer Mr W a renewal in line with the above, under the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidance on continuation of cover following a 
subsidence claim. But I should point out that any offer of cover UKI makes to Mr W would 
still be subject to its remaining underwriting criteria  and I think thats fair.
Mr W highlighted that his complaint has evolved since he brought it to our service. I 
addressed the complaint as it was referred to us, for completeness. But as Mr W has made it 
clear he no longer wishes to make a claim for loss of rent, Ill not comment further on that.
In terms of Mr Ws comments on the inconvenience to his business, Ive seen no evidence 
that UKIs handling of this claim has impacted or inconvenienced this. The property in 
question is a personal asset, rather than a business asset. And Ive seen no evidence that 
the time Mr W spent dealing with this (non-commercial) insurance claim caused any 
detriment to his business either. So, Ill not be making any award for inconvenience to 
Mr Ws business.
Mr W has provided further information about the earnings of his previous business, up to 
April 2012, to support his claim for £150 per day for lost earnings. This new information 
hasnt changed my provisional conclusions. I say this because the claim wasnt made until 
mid-2013, so Mr Ws businesss earnings in 2011/2012 arent proof of losses he allegedly 
incurred in 2013.In any event, even if I were satisfied that Mr W had proven his earnings at the time were 
£150 per day or more, I still havent been provided with any persuasive evidence to show 
that he actually lost out on these amounts on the dates he has specified, solely as a result of 
UKIs actions.
As I stated in my provisional decision, I think its likely that even if the claim had been 
correctly investigated and accepted initially, the majority of the site visits would still have 
been required. So, even if I accepted the amount claimed by Mr W (which I dont for the 
reasons stated) or that he incurred those losses on the dates specified (which hasnt been 
evidenced) I dont think I could reasonably conclude that those alleged losses were all 
caused solely by something UKI did wrong.
Ultimately my provisional decision on this point remains unchanged. Taking into account 
everything Ive seen, Ill not be awarding costs for loss of earnings. 
The remainder of Mr Ws points centre on the compensation award I provisionally decided 
was fair and reasonable. Mr W highlights that he didnt know about our service, so says its 
unfair to suggest he could have come to us sooner. 
Ive thought about Mr Ws point here. But I still dont think I can hold UKI solely responsible 
for the five-year period between the initial repudiation and his challenge. Mr W has admitted 
he disagreed with the decision from the outset. So, whether he knew about our service or 
not, he could still have raised a complaint with UKI at the time, and had he done so he would 
have been signposted to our service. I say this because UKI are obligated to provide referral 
rights to our service when they respond to a complaint. I appreciate Mr W felt that he had 
already done everything he could at the time, and I sympathise. But taking everything into 
account, I dont think it would be fair to hold UKI solely responsible for the full time the claim 
took to resolve.
In terms of the amount of the compensation award, both our investigator and I have 
explained that our awards are not intended to be punitive. Neither do we expect businesses 
to use them to develop a precedent for amounts per annum (or per any other timescale). We 
consider each individual case on its own merits. Thats what I have done in this case. And 
having considered everything that happened I think a total of £5,000 is sufficient to fairly 
compensate Mr W for the impact of the errors, which are the subject of this complaint, and 
which are solely attributable to UKI.
To alleviate Mr Ws concerns, this award should not have any bearing on any separate 
complaints he may currently have with UKI, nor any potential future complaints he may 
make. The total amount Im awarding is for the issues covered as part of this complaint only.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint in part. 
U K Insurance Limited must:
Pay Mr W a total of £5,000 compensation, for the impact of its poor handling of his 
claim from 2013 to the point of this complaint.
Offer Mr W cover moving forward in line with the principles of the ABIs guidance on 
continuation of cover following a subsidence claim  subject to its remaining 
underwriting criteria and Mr W paying the relevant premiums.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman