DRN-1637902
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to carry out an international 
transfer, and then reneged on a promise to reimburse them for the resulting financial losses.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a joint account with Barclays. In 2019 Mr C tried to send a sum of money 
in a foreign currency (a five-figure sum in sterling) by international transfer. He did this online 
using Barclays website, and the payment instructions appeared to be accepted. A few days 
later, when he learned that the payment had not in fact been made, he contacted the bank 
and was told that this had been due to a system error. This was not in fact true, but relying 
on what he was told Mr C tried again, and then tried a third time. Meanwhile, the bank 
repeatedly assured him that as the problem had been the banks fault, the bank would 
refund Mr C what he had lost due to the changing exchange rate.
Eventually the matter was investigated properly, and Barclays realised that the reason the 
payment had not been completed was not because of a system error. It was because the 
purpose of the payment, as described by Mr C during the payment process, did not comply 
with the relevant regulations in the recipients country, and so the payment had been 
blocked. When Barclays finally told Mr C what was wrong, he changed the payment purpose 
and the payment was accepted.
Barclays accepted that it had made an error by failing to explain that in the first place, and 
offered to pay Mr C the money he had lost due to the exchange rate changing since the 
second payment attempt, because the second attempt would have been successful if the 
bank had told him the real reason why the first payment attempt had failed. This came to 
about £105. But since the first payment attempt had always been bound to fail, through no 
fault of Barclays, the bank did not agree to refund him the difference in exchange rates 
between the first and second payment attempts, which came to nearly £600. Barclays also 
offered to pay Mr C another £200 because it had wrongly promised him a refund which it 
was no longer going to pay him.
Mr C did not accept that offer, and so he and his wife brought this complaint to our Service. 
But our investigator did not uphold it. She did not think it would be fair to ask Barclays to pay 
compensation for the payment not being completed the first time when this was not its fault. 
She decided that Barclays offer was fair. Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his case. 
He emphasised that he had spent a lot of time and money on the phone to Barclays trying to 
resolve this matter (and offered to show us his phone bills to prove it).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says that while he was setting up the first payment online, he was on the phone to 
Barclays while a member of staff talked him through the process step by step, and told him 
what to write for the payment purpose. So he argues that Barclays is responsible for the 
original payment attempt failing. Barclays has provided all of the relevant call recordings and 
there is no evidence of this call. But since there is evidence that this did happen in a later 
call, I accept Mr Cs recollection that it also happened in the first call. However, I wouldnt 
expect a Barclays call handler to know the regulations that apply in a foreign country, or to 
know when a payment might be blocked under foreign regulations. So I think the call handler 
probably only intended to guide Mr C through the steps required by Barclays website, rather 
than undertaking to advise him about what a bank in a foreign country would or would not 
accept for the payment to be completed. Therefore I do not think that Barclays is responsible 
for the original payment not being carried out.
The rest of the facts of this case are not in dispute. The bank accepts that it made a mistake 
by telling Mr C the wrong reason why the original payment attempt failed, and accepts that 
the second attempt would have succeeded if it had given him the correct information at the 
time. The bank also accepts that it told Mr C several times that it would refund him the 
difference between the amount of the payment in sterling at the time of the first payment 
attempt and at the time of the successful payment due to the exchange rates at those times. 
Barclays withdrew that offer once it realised that the first payment would never have been 
accepted, for reasons outside of its control. It has offered to pay for the failure of the second 
payment attempt, and also £200 compensation for making a more generous offer and then 
withdrawing it. So it falls to me to decide whether that revised offer is fair.
The banks original offer was based on a misunderstanding by a member of staff who was 
mistaken about what had gone wrong. The bank changed its offer when it realised what had 
really happened. In those circumstances, I dont think the right remedy is to hold the bank to 
its original offer, but rather to compensate Mr and Mrs C for their disappointment at learning 
that they would receive a smaller refund than they had been told to expect. For that, and for 
wasting Mr Cs time, I think £200 is in line with what this Service would typically award, and 
so I think the banks offer is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr and Mrs C to decide 
whether to accept the banks offer of £304.96.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman