DRN-3352376
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the decision reached by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance PLC 
(RSA), following a claim he made for damage to his property.
What happened
Mr E first reported cracking damage to his property in 2017. RSA instructed a loss adjuster 
to investigate the claim on its behalf.
The loss adjuster carried out various investigations into the cause of damage. Their 
conclusions were that Mr Es property was suffering from clay shrinkage induced 
subsidence, which was being caused by the water demands of a nearby tree. They also 
concluded that damage reported to the roof and a floor slab were historic, and predated 
inception of RSAs policy, and/or were caused by a lack of maintenance.
The offending tree was removed, and RSA accepted Mr Es claim for the cracking damage 
caused by the non-historic subsidence movement. But it didnt accept the claim for damage 
to the roof or floor slab. 
Mr E complained about RSAs claim decision in 2020. RSA provided a final response letter 
to this complaint in July 2020, maintaining its decision and not upholding Mr Es complaint. 
This final response addressed Mr Es concerns about whether damage to the garage 
building predated the inception of his policy and whether the cause of damage was the trees, 
or something else.
Mr E raised a further complaint with RSA in 2021. He said his property continued to suffer 
movement damage despite removal of the tree, which had resulted in new cracks and old 
repairs opening up. Broadly summarised, Mr E split his complaint into four points:
The continued refusal of RSAs loss adjuster to accept that movement to the floor 
and roof is recent, despite Mr E having provided evidence to support this.
The loss adjusters insistence that the damage had been caused by trees, despite 
further cracks appearing since removal of the trees.
The loss adjusters rejection of the findings of Mr Es own structural engineers report.
Mr Es loss of faith in RSAs contractor due to his insistence that new cracks are 
actually pre-existing cracks which were unable to be accessed previously. Mr E said 
the fact is there are new cracks, and some of the previously repaired cracks have 
reopened. He said the new cracks would not have been missed previously as they 
can be seen from the inside.
In its response to our service, RSA didnt consent to us looking at Mr Es concerns about the 
first three complaint issues above. It said it had answered these complaint points in a final 
response letter sent in July 2020 and Mr E hadnt referred his complaint about those issues 
to our service on time.
Our investigator considered this and issued a jurisdiction assessment to both sides. She 
concluded that our service didnt have the power to consider those issues because Mr E had 
brought them out of time. She also said there werent any exceptional circumstances which 
would have impacted Mr Es ability to bring his complaint about those issues in time. But our 
investigator also concluded that we did have the power to consider the fourth complaint 
point.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, the issue of whether our service had the 
power to consider Mr Es complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman to decide. 
I issued a decision on which issues our service had the power to consider, and which we 
didnt, in February 2022. I reached the same conclusions as our investigator, that the first 
three points couldnt be considered, for the same reasons.
Our investigator considered the fourth element of Mr Es complaint. She explained that the 
reports and responses from RSA, at the time, suggested the cracks werent new but rather 
were existing cracks which werent able to be inspected initially due to access issues. So, 
she didnt think these cracks demonstrated the property was still moving. She highlighted 
that RSA had agreed to cover the repairs to these cracks, which she thought was fair and 
reasonable.
Our investigator also addressed Mr Es concern with how long it took RSA to provide a final 
response to his complaint. She acknowledged that it didnt issue the December 2021 final 
response letter within the eight weeks required by the industry regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). But she explained that RSA had written to Mr E within that time to 
explain that it wouldnt be able to provide a full response in time, and to let him know that, 
because of this, he could refer his complaint to our service. Based on this, she didnt think 
RSAs late response had significantly impacted Mr E, his claim, or his rights to refer his 
concerns to our service.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, the complaint has been passed back to me 
for a decision on the elements which are within our power to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues Im considering in this decision are the alleged new cracking and reopening of 
previous repairs, and RSA failing to issue its final response letter on time. But I also note that 
Mr Es primary concern still seems to be that his property is still moving, and that RSA has 
ignored the expert report he provided. Ill address each of these issues separately below. 
Concern that the property is still moving
Having reviewed Mr Es response to our investigators opinion, it seems that his primary 
concern remains that he believes his property is still suffering from subsidence movement. 
He believes RSA was wrong to conclude the cause of damage was the tree. He says his 
expert report highlighted nearby bamboo plants as a more likely cause. He says RSA was 
wrong to conclude his property had stopped moving and he feels it has discounted the 
expert report he obtained in February 2020.I explained in my jurisdiction decision that RSA had considered Mr Es expert report but 
concluded that the cause of movement at the property was the tree, which was removed. 
Following a period of monitoring, RSA concluded that the property had stabilised and offered 
to settle the claim for the damage which it accepted was caused by subsidence while it was 
the insurer of Mr Es policy.
As I explained in my jurisdiction decision, Mr E referred his complaint about these issues to 
our service out of time. So, our service has no power to consider the conclusions RSA 
reached on these issues  based on the evidence it had at the time of its decision. If Mr E 
wants RSA to reassess its position on this, he should decide whether to obtain new expert 
evidence to present to RSA for consideration. Should he do this, and remain unhappy with 
RSAs conclusions, then our service could potentially consider those new concerns, based 
on new evidence, as a new complaint  subject to it being referred to us in time.
New cracking damage
Mr E says the fact there has been new damage demonstrates that the property is still 
moving. RSA says the damage isnt new, but rather is to an area of the property which 
wasnt able to be inspected at the time.
The contemporaneous evidence Ive seen supports RSAs position here. I say this because 
the December 2017 report completed by RSAs loss adjuster explains that the rear 
projection wasnt able to be fully inspected, but that damage was suspected. The portion 
which was able to be inspected also showed previous crack repairs.
RSA has also explained that when these new areas of damage were reported, in 
September 2020, it sent its contractors back to the site to inspect it. RSA has provided the 
comments received from the contractors at the time, which state:
We have called into the above and looked at the crack, which is as per the enclosed 
site plan, which is in an area which is not accessible and was not including (sic) in 
the scope of works, to access would mean removing the fence, and building a 
scaffold platform on the other side of the wall as there is a drop of approximately 6m. 
Probably why it was not included on the Tech Report/Day1 as cannot be seen.
We could not locate the bracket photo, but checked the RH Wall low level and some 
of the bricks have cracks in them and are opening up, also we notice a bit of 
movement around one of the windows externally as a gap has appeared to the RHS 
of one of the window lintels."
I do not consider these are new cracks but are simply located in areas not viewed 
before due to accessibility.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that the 
cracks reported are more likely to have been existing cracks rather than new cracks.
Ive seen that following the contractors revisit, RSA approved repairs to these cracks, in 
addition to the works it had already approved. So, taking everything into account, I think RSA 
has dealt with this issue fairly and reasonably by agreeing to cover the missed crack repairs.
Late final response letter
Mr E has also complained that RSA failed to respond to his complaint within the eight weeks 
set out by the FCA.As our investigator explained, its not our services role to punish businesses if they breach 
FCA rules. And complaint handling, isnt one of the regulated activities which our service has 
the power to consider either. But that having been said, we can consider the impact of a 
businesss actions when complaint handling, where those actions are ancillary to a regulated 
activity.
Mr E raised his second complaint with RSA on 5 July 2021 which meant RSA ought to have 
issued its final response letter by 18 August 2021. But it didnt do so until December 2021. 
RSA has accepted that the time it took to investigate and respond to Mr Es complaint was, 
far from ideal. But it has also pointed out that it wrote to Mr E on 16 August 2021 to explain 
that it wouldnt be able to provide its final response letter in time, and to advise him that he 
could now refer his concerns to our service if he remained unhappy. This is what I would 
have expected it to do in these circumstances.
At this stage, Mr E could have referred his complaint to our service should he have remained 
unhappy. So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mr E has been significantly 
impacted by RSA failing to issue its second final response letter on time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr E complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman