DRN-4064501
The complaint
Mr B and Ms J complain about esure Insurance Limiteds valuation of their car after it was 
written off following an accident.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
At the relevant times, Mr B and Ms J had car insurance underwritten by esure.
In short, Mr B and Ms Js car was involved in an accident which wasnt their fault. They 
made a claim to esure and the car was declared a write off.
After some discussions, esure offered Mr B and Ms J a settlement of £14,027.
Mr B and Ms J werent happy with this. They thought the car should be valued at over 
£16,000. So, they made a complaint to esure.
esure didnt uphold their complaint, so Mr B and Ms J brought it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think esure had done anything wrong.
Mr B and Ms J disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Id like to say how sorry I was to hear about the accident involving the car. 
Through no fault of her own, Ms J suffered not insignificant physical injury and has 
understandably been less confident when driving afterwards. I hope she is now fully 
recovered.
As our investigator explained to Mr B and Ms J, its our view that the fair way for insurers to 
value cars which have been written off is to use industry recognised trade guides.
Mr B and Ms Js policy says this is what esure will do in the event their car is written off. And 
thats exactly what esure did. They took valuations for the car from four of the recognised 
trade guides and offered Mr B and Ms J the average of those four valuations.
After we received the complaint, our investigator checked another industry guide, which 
gave a valuation within the same range.  
In short, Im satisfied esure have acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Mr B and Ms Js 
claim and have valued their car in the way we would recommend.
Mr B and Ms J have provided several advertisements of cars of the same make, model and 
age for sale at slightly higher prices.
I can understand Mr B and Ms Js point, but the prices at which used cars are advertised 
dont reflect the prices actually paid. More accurately, they reflect the best price the seller 
would hope to achieve for their car. 
The industry guides, by contrast, are based on the actual prices paid for cars. And thats why 
we take the view that insurers should use the guides when valuing cars which have been 
written off.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr B and Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman