DRN-4018094
The complaint
Ms G has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) increased her policy premiums. 
She also had to pay an extra excess following unsuccessful treatment. 
What happened
Ms G had a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA. She had an operation 
in 2021 but her problem returned and so she had the same operation again in 2022. BUPA 
accepted the claims but Ms G remained unhappy with the outcome of the treatment. 
As a result of the claims, Ms Gs premiums went up at renewal and she wasnt happy about 
the excesses shed had to pay twice.
Ms G complained to BUPA and it explained how it worked her premiums out. The number of 
claims made was a factor, amongst other things, such as medical inflation and age. 
Unhappy with BUPAs response to her complaint, Ms G referred her complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think BUPA had done anything wrong. It 
had applied the excesses in line with the policy terms and conditions and had also increased 
the premiums fairly. 
Ms G disagreed, and in summary, she said she didnt want two operations for the same 
problem  and both operations were unsuccessful in treating her problem. She says she is 
being financially penalised for this. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. Ill explain why. 
This complaint relates to premium pricing. Ms G is unhappy that BUPA increased her 
premiums at renewal as a result of an unsuccessful operation which she had to have 
repeated. So I will be looking at whether BUPA fairly increased Ms Gs premiums in line with 
how it increases premiums for other customers in similar situations as Ms G. 
Ms G has also raised additional concerns about consultation fees which didnt form part of 
her complaint to BUPA or this investigation and so I will not be commenting on those 
concerns. My decision is limited to the increased premiums and excess payments. 
In relation to the increased premiums, Im satisfied BUPA hasnt treated Ms G 
unfairly or differently to other customers in similar situations. It has provided its 
pricing information which I cant share as its commercially sensitive. But I can 
reassure Ms G that I have checked it carefully and BUPA has correctly calculated 
and increased her premium in line with the different factors it considers such as the 
number of claims made on the policy, age and location. 
Ms G has said that the first operation was unsuccessful which led to the need for the 
same operation again a year later. And she feels it is unfair for her to be penalised 
through premium increases. As the insurer, BUPA isnt responsible for the quality of 
treatment Ms G received and it is entitled to increase premiums based on the number 
of claims paid. 
Ms G is also unhappy about having to pay a second excess for the repeat treatment 
but as set out in BUPAs terms and conditions, an excess is payable per person per 
policy yeareven if your treatment is continuing. I appreciate why Ms G is unhappy 
about paying for something twice, when the first operation was unsuccessful. And Im 
sorry to hear the treatment didnt work. But BUPA cant be held responsible for the 
standard of treatment or outcome of the treatment - the treatment provider is 
responsible for that.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman