DRN-4339712
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to set up a direct debit to make 
payments to her new credit card and failed to provide her with credit card statements. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs P opened a credit card account with Nationwide. She didnt use the 
account until July 2022.
When she opened the account Mrs P asked Nationwide to set up a direct debit from a joint 
account held with her husband to pay the balance on the credit card account in full each 
month. Mrs P thought Nationwide had done this and didnt make any manual payments to 
the account.
In August 2022 Nationwide applied late payment fees to the account. It also applied a 
temporary block to the card. It sent letters to Mrs P advising her that she had missed 
payments and that two lots of late payment fees had been applied to the account. Mrs P 
received these letters in September 2022.
Mrs P called Nationwide to find out what had happened and made a payment to clear the 
balance. Nationwide refunded one of the late payment fees but said it couldnt refund the 
second for policy reasons.
Mrs P complained to Nationwide. She said shed made it clear when she opened the account 
that she wanted the direct debit set up. She also said she hadnt received monthly 
statements and hadnt been advised that these were available online. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint, so she complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint. I found that, having promised 
Mrs P that it would set up the direct debit, Nationwide shouldve done so. Alternatively, it 
shouldve contacted Mrs P and explained that it had been unable to set up the direct debit. 
I listened to the calls between Mrs P and Nationwide and said I thought that Mrs P had been 
left with a clear impression that the direct debit would be set without anything further needed 
on her part. 
I considered the argument put forward by Nationwide that Mrs P couldve logged on online 
and viewed her statements and that if she had done so she wouldve seen that the direct 
debit hadnt been set up and that there was an account balance. I found that Mrs P had no 
reason to log online because as far as she was concerned, Nationwide had followed her 
instructions in setting up the direct debit to pay the balance in full each month. Nationwide 
had also suggested that Mrs P shouldve noticed that the direct debits werent coming out of 
her account each month, but I found that Mrs P wouldnt necessarily have been aware of this 
because the instruction was to set up the direct debit from the joint account she shared with 
her husband, which was an account managed by her husband.
I also looked at the letters sent to Mrs P about the late payments and found that these 
werent sent until September 2022. I said that Nationwide couldve done more to 
communicate with Mrs P sooner than this and I found it likely that had they done so, Mrs P 
wouldve settled the account straightaway and avoided the second late payment charge.
I decided that Nationwide should remove the second late payment charge from the account 
and pay compensation of £100 to Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience caused as a 
result of its failure to set up the direct debit.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise. 
Both parties responded and said they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has adduced any further evidence or made any further arguments. In the 
circumstances, I see no reason to reach a conclusion which is different to that which I set out 
in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society must clear the second late payment from Mrs Ps account and 
pay Mrs P compensation of £100.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Nationwide Building Society must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman