DRN-2122459
The complaint
Mr H complains about the sale of a life and critical illness policy to protect a commercial 
mortgage. ReAssure Limited has since taken over responsibility for the sale, so Ill refer to its 
actions throughout this decision. Mr H doesnt think the policy was necessary and wants 
ReAssure to refund the set-up charges and return the premiums hes paid. Mr H is also 
concerned about ReAssures handling of his data. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
found no evidence ReAssure charged Mr H a set-up fee for the policy. Nor could he see how 
Mr H had been disadvantaged when his data was shared with ReAssure by its predecessor. 
In terms of the suitability of the policy, our investigator thought ReAssure had done nothing 
wrong. He said it provided the cover Mr H needed to protect his mortgage, whilst meeting his 
objective to reduce the amount he was paying. 
Mr H didnt accept what our investigator said and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He 
said he had no need for the policy and got no benefit from it. He also wanted ReAssure to 
confirm it has destroyed all his personal data. Mr H maintained that at no time did he give 
consent for ReAssure to access his data. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr H feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
I should first clarify that Mr Hs complaint is against ReAssure. I can see that hes questioned 
how this can be the case, given his policy was cancelled in 2004 and ReAssure took over 
responsibly from the previous insurer in 2008. And Mr H has also suggested that weve been 
unable to say hes suffered any detriment because the policy was cancelled before 
ReAssure took over responsibility for it. But ReAssure has confirmed that it became the 
owner of, and took full legal responsibility for, all life policies sold by its predecessor, 
including the sale and administration of those policies. And so, my consideration of this 
complaint hasnt been influenced in any way by the timing of ReAssures involvement. 
Rather Ive looked at whether anything has gone wrong, and if so, whether there was an 
impact on Mr H. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. Ive also looked at information provided by Mr H 
about a related complaint against ReAssures predecessor.  But Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Data
Mr H is very concerned that ReAssure holds his personal data. He said he didnt give his 
permission, and wants the data destroyed. Because Mr H no longer had an active policy at 
the time ReAssure took over responsibility for the company that sold his policy, ReAssure 
said he might not have been contacted about the transfer of business. That doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me. And as our investigator has already explained, theres no evidence to 
suggest that ReAssure having access to Mr Hs data has in any way caused him harm or 
detriment. 
Furthermore, as ReAssure explained to Mr H in November 2019, because in 2008 it took 
over responsibility for the sale and administration of all policies, regardless of whether the 
policy had previously been cancelled  it was issued with the relevant sales paperwork. This 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me. And because complaints about historic sales are 
common, its sensible for data to be retained to allow such complaints to be investigated  as 
has been possible in Mr Hs case. So, I cant say ReAssure did anything wrong here. 
In terms of Mr Hs request for ReAssure to destroy the data it holds, I can see ReAssure has 
explained this process to him in a letter dated 25 November 2019. I appreciate Mr H has 
already spoken to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) about this matter. They 
remain the correct body to deal with any ongoing concerns he might have about the 
retention of his personal data or breaches of the Data Protection Act. 
Set-up charges
Ive looked at all the information produced at the time the policy was sold to Mr H. And I cant 
find any evidence to show he was charged a set-up fee or indeed any additional fees. The 
monthly premium is consistently documented as being £43.04, with no mention of any 
additional fees or charges. So, I cant see what ReAssure has done wrong here. Our 
investigator gave Mr H the opportunity to provide more information in support of his 
concerns, but I cant see that any further evidence was forthcoming. 
Mis-sale
Mr Hs main concern is that he didnt need the life and critical illness policy ReAssure sold 
him as he already had enough cover for the mortgage - and he says it was ReAssure who 
approached him about taking out a new policy. ReAssure has said it was a requirement of 
Mr Hs mortgage that he have insurance in place to cover the amount borrowed in the event 
of his death or critical illness. And it was his choice to cancel the existing policy and set up a 
new one. ReAssure also said Mr H approached them to get cheaper cover. 
I dont know for certain who instigated the sale of the policy. But I dont think that has a 
bearing here. Mr H also doesnt dispute that it was a requirement of the mortgage to have 
insurance in place. So, I must decide, based on the available documentation, whether the 
policy ReAssure sold Mr H was suitable and met his objectives at the time. 
The Fact Find document clearly shows Mr Hs intention as being to replace the cover he 
already had with a cheaper policy  and that he was happy to consider the more competitive 
prices on offer from ReAssure. The Fact Find goes on to show that Mr H accepted the 
advice that he take out a new decreasing term policy with ReAssure for 15 years (the time 
left on his mortgage) with a monthly premium of £43.04. His previous policy offered him the 
same level of cover but cost him £44.86 a month. 
So, ReAssure sold Mr H a like-for-like policy for a cheaper price that ensured his mortgage 
would be paid off in the event of his death or diagnoses with a listed critical illness. This seems to me to have been suitable cover for Mr Hs needs, as well as meeting his objective 
to find a cheaper policy. So, I cant say ReAssure did anything wrong in selling Mr H the life 
and critical illness policy and wont be asking it to refund the premiums hes paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman