DRN-3792280
The complaint
Mr C complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has declined his claim for storm damage under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr C made a claim on his home insurance following a storm that had 
caused some of the tiles on his roof to come loose. This allowed water to enter one of the 
upstairs bedrooms of the property.
QIC sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. His report said that the roof had previous tile 
repairs and that it was coming to the end of its lifespan. He said the damage was due to 
wear and tear and not covered under the policy. The internal damage was minor staining to 
the bedroom ceiling and wall. As the external claim was declined, and the policy did not 
include accidental damage, QIC also declined Mr Cs claim for the internal damage.
Mr C complained to QIC. He didnt agree that the damage was due to wear and tear. He said 
that his roof had been in a good state of repair and that the damage was caused by the 
storm. He said that the surveyor didnt examine the roof properly as he didnt go into the roof 
but examined it from ground level outside.  
QICs in-house surveyor reviewed the claim and agreed that the damage was due to wear 
and tear. QIC accepted that there were storm conditions but referred to the exclusions 
section of its policy which says that cover doesnt include wear and tear or anything that 
happens gradually. It concluded that the damage was not a direct result of the storm but was 
caused by a gradually ongoing process which was highlighted by the strong winds. It 
declined to deal with the internal damage as the policy didnt include accidental damage. It 
also thought that the surveyor had carried out an adequate inspection of the property. 
Mr C didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service. He has now replaced the whole 
roof and he would like QIC to cover this cost. 
Our investigator initially thought that the surveyors report showed evidence of wear and tear 
and that the damage wasnt covered under the policy. Mr C then provided a copy of a report 
he had obtained from a roofer in December 2020. This said that apart from a couple of 
slipped tiles which were replaced, the roof was in a good state of repair.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. As the report showed the roof had been in good 
condition a year before the storm, she didnt think it reasonable for QIC to say the damage 
was down to wear and tear. She didnt think it fair for QIC to cover the full cost of replacing 
the roof but said it should pay what it would have cost to repair the roof had it accepted the 
claim initially. It should also cover the internal damage which was caused as a result of the 
damage to the roof. She awarded £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. QIC 
said that its position remained the same and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only the damage 
caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the 
damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim 
unless it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. 
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy  and I can see that it 
includes storm damage under section one but that it doesnt cover anything that happens 
gradually. The general exclusions apply to all sections and exclude any gradual or 
maintenance-related loss or damage including loss or damage as a result of gradual causes 
including: - wear and tear and gradual deterioration. 
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, we ask three questions: 
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld.  I will look at each point separately and consider the 
external and internal damage.
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
QIC accept that there were wind speeds up to 78mph and that this satisfies the definition of 
a storm under the terms of its policy. Ive therefore not considered this further. 
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
 
Strong winds are known to dislodge roof tiles and cause damage to internal decorations 
where rainwater has got into the property. Im satisfied the damage to the slate roof and the 
internal damage to Mr Cs bedroom is consistent with damage typically caused by a storm. 
Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
Ive reviewed QICs surveyors report and comments, the photos and Mr Cs report. Ive also 
taken into consideration the comments made by QIC and Mr C. On balance I think that the 
storm was the main cause of damage and Ill explain why.
Its clear from the photos and the two reports that there have been previous repairs. These 
are evidenced by the metal clips that can be seen in the photos of the roof. However, just 
because a roof has been repaired in the past doesnt mean that its not in a good state of 
repair now. It can demonstrate that the property owner has made efforts to properly maintain 
the roof  and I think in this instance Mr C has. 
Mr C obtained his report just before he purchased the property. He arranged for a full 
inspection to assess the condition of the roof. The roofer confirmed that the roof itself was in 
good working order and, apart from four slipped tiles, he found no further deterioration. That 
was only just over a year before the storm. I think it unlikely that the roof would have 
deteriorated so much in a year that wear and tear was the main cause of the damage. QIC say that the metal clips from previous repairs are evidence of nail fatigue where the 
fixings have failed over time. However, QIC didnt carry out a full survey of the roof, and I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that the fixings were failing over the extent of the roof. 
The tile fixings were thought to be in good condition a year before and the tiles did not slip in 
normal weather conditions. The storm was described as having violent storm force gusts and 
I think it more likely that these gusts were what caused the tiles to come loose.
Mr Cs roofer went up into the loft area to examine the roof from the inside as well as going 
up to the roof to do the repairs. He carried out a more extensive inspection of the roof than 
QICs surveyor who viewed the property from the ground. Whilst I accept that its often 
possible to spot the signs of damage and the cause without going up to the roof itself, this is 
something I bear in mind when considering the surveyors report.
QICs surveyors view is clear  due to the number of tiles that have slipped and the number 
of old tile repairs, he believes the damage is due to wear and tear. QIC has defined wear 
and tear as anything gradual that occurs over a significant period of time. It says that it 
expects customers to carry out regular maintenance to keep something in a good state of 
repair. I think Mr C did this. He had his roof inspected and repairs carried out only a year or 
so before the storm. The roof was said to be in a good state of repair. There were wind gusts 
up to 78mph on the day of the storm, and so on balance I think it more likely that the storm 
was the main cause of the damage.
Mr C has now had his whole roof replaced. I dont think it reasonable to expect QIC to cover 
the full cost of this. Mr C chose to replace the roof rather than carry out specific repairs. The 
policy would only have covered the necessary repairs as the whole roof was not damaged in 
the storm. I think it fair for QIC to pay Mr C what it would have cost to repair the roof had the 
claim been accepted at the start. It should also pay interest at 8% from the date that Mr C 
paid for the repair to his roof to the date that QIC make payment to him.
As I think the damage to the roof was caused by the storm, the policy will also cover the 
internal damage that was caused by water ingress as a result of the storm. QIC must 
therefore arrange for the internal repairs to be carried out.
I think an award of £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair. Mr C has had 
the inconvenience of having to resolve the repairs without assistance and has had to live 
with the internal damage in the bedroom since the storm.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to:
  pay Mr C what it would have cost to carry out the repairs to the roof had the claim 
been accepted initially, plus interest at 8% from the date Mr C replaced his roof to 
the date that payment is made to Mr C; 
  carry out the internal repairs to the bedroom; and
  pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman