DRN-3452148
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the suitability of the advice she received from The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) to take out a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) plan in 1998. She thinks shes lost out financially as a result and 
would like to be in the position shed now be in had she received suitable advice.
What happened
Mrs G was employed by her county council as a nursery nurse and was a member of its 
occupational pension scheme. On 19 March 1998 she met with an adviser from Prudential to 
discuss retirement planning. She was 40 at the time of the meeting, and it was noted she 
hoped to retire aged 60 and to increase her retirement provision to two thirds of her final 
salary. As a result of the meeting Mrs G agreed to take out a Prudential FSAVC plan, 
making contributions of £75 per month over 20 years.
On 27 March 1998 Prudential wrote to Mrs G. This letter contained her Personal Financial 
Review Summary Report. In this letter was the formal recommendation to take out the 
FSAVC plan and confirmation that Mrs G had decided to accept the recommendation.
In July 2020, using a representative, Mrs G complained to Prudential about the advice she 
received in 1998. Among a number of other generic complaint points, the representative said 
that Mrs G hadnt been made aware of the in-house scheme alternatives to the FSAVC, and 
no comparison had been made about the likely lower charges of those options. It said that if 
Mrs G had been made aware, she would have chosen the most suitable in-house 
alternative.
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint. It said, in summary:
The FSAVC was suitable for Mrs Gs circumstances at the time and she was 
provided documentation which explained how the policy worked.
The available in-house options were discussed, along with the FSAVC, and a copy of 
the leaflet Additional Voluntary Contributions  some important features  was 
provided, which included details about the relative merits of both the FSAVC plan 
and an in-house arrangement, including the cost implications.
Although its representative had explained the benefits of each option, they couldnt 
give specific advice on the in-house options. And the leaflet explained Mrs G could 
contact her employers scheme to discuss this if she wished.
But Mrs G wasnt happy with this response, so brought the complaint to our service where 
one of our investigators looked into the matter. But he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He thought that Prudential had complied with the regulators requirements at the 
time of the advice, so didnt agree that the FSAVC had been mis-sold.
Mrs G, through her representative, didnt agree. She said that making consumers aware of 
the generic differences between the FSAVC and in-house plans through the leaflet wasnt 
enough. There needed to be a discussion which included the likelihood of lower charges for 
the AVC, and there was very little documentation of what discussion took place, and it 
appeared Prudential hadnt discussed the charges difference. She said that if shed been 
properly advised she wouldve most likely chosen to contribute to her occupational schemes 
AVC over the FSAVC given the likely difference in charges between the products.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain.
As a starting point I want to highlight that the adviser was directly employed by Prudential so 
was a tied adviser. This meant he could only recommend products which were offered by 
Prudential. He couldnt actively recommend or give details of any other products from any 
other product providers, including Mrs Gs in-house options.  
The regulatory body at the time had put guidance in place which tied advisers were expected 
to adhere to when making recommendations for FSAVCs. It was expected that although they 
couldnt actively recommend the in-house options, they shouldve known they were available 
and mentioned to consumers the generic benefits, including the following:
Money purchase AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC.
Added years might have been available under a defined benefit occupational 
scheme, particularly in the public sector - these provided a guaranteed benefit linked 
to salary and an additional component of tax-free cash, neither of which were 
available under an FSAVC. 
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house option. 
In May 1996 the regulator issued an update called RU20 which set out the procedures it 
expected product providers to follow, although this wasnt new guidance but restating what 
was already in place. The update said that a tied adviser shouldnt recommend their own 
companys FSAVC until they had: 
Drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative. 
Discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking account, 
among other things, of the features described in the article). 
Directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information 
on the in-scheme option. 
The differences included in the discussions shouldve included, among a number of topics, 
the difference in charges and expense deductions. It shouldve been pointed out that the 
charges associated with the in-house AVC option were likely to be lower than those 
applicable to the FSAVC policy. 
So Ive looked carefully at the documents Prudential has provided to evidence what was 
discussed and agreed at the time of the recommendation in 1998, particularly with respect to 
whether it satisfied the RU20 requirements.
Prudential have been unable to provide any record or notes of the discussions it had with Mrs G during the meeting on 19 March 1998. But I have seen a copy of the fact find in 
which it recorded details of Mrs Gs personal circumstances. In this document Mrs Gs 
primary goal was recorded as Retirement with the following generic objectives highlighted:
understanding your retirement benefits
achieving an earlier retirement
maintaining your hobbies, interests and travel in retirement
And all the sections of the form which did not relate to retirement or income were scored 
through and marked N/A or Not disclosed. Her attitude to investment risk was recorded 
as 2 out of 4  which was described as very cautious. The contents of this record havent 
been disputed, so I accept they are likely to be accurate. So Im satisfied it is likely that 
Mrs Gs main focus during the meeting on 19 March 1998 was increasing her potential 
retirement income, with a view to retiring at age 60 whilst taking little risk with her 
investments. And I can also see that at that meeting she accepted Prudentials advice to 
take out its FSAVC plan and contribute £75 per month for 20 years.
On 27 March 1998 Prudential wrote to Mrs G with its Personal Financial Review Summary 
Report. Having read this, Im satisfied it constituted Prudentials formal recommendation of 
the advice given during the earlier meeting. This recommendation letter contained the 
following:
I advise you to make further retirement provision in order to try and achieve your 
desired retirement income. I recommend that you effect a Prudential Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution Plan. I advise you to contribute up to the 
maximum inland revenue limits. Together we have established that this is not 
currently affordable and that you should commence contributions at a lower 
amount. This meets your needs by providing [illegible] efficient disciplined way of 
investing towards your desired retirement income. I also advise you to review your 
contribution levels on an annual basis or more regularly, dependant on your 
circumstances. I have discussed with you the features of a with-profits fund and we 
established that this is consistent with your very cautious attitude to risk.
It went on to say:
I have given you a copy of the leaflet AVC  some important features and have 
explained the contents to you.
So although there is no record of the actual discussion between Prudential and Mrs G, given 
the contents of neither the 19 March 1998 meeting notes or the recommendation letter have 
been disputed, I think on balance that the discussion probably did happen. And I think it 
probably wouldve generally followed the subjects included in the leaflet described.
But what I need to decide, is whether I think that this discussion and the contents of the 
leaflet were enough to satisfy the requirements of RU20. And Im satisfied Prudential did 
enough in this regard.
As Ive said, I think it likely that the discussion occurred during the meeting on 19 March 
1998, and probably generally followed the format of the leaflet Mrs G was given, a copy of 
which I have seen. And I can see that the purpose of additional contributions was 
documented, along with the fact that Mrs Gs employer would provide an in-house AVC 
facility, details of which could be obtained from her employer or pension scheme trustees. 
So Im satisfied that this met the first and third parts of the main requirements of RU20. This 
would have allowed Mrs G to find out more about the in-house AVC alternative. And I think 
the statement did confirm that the adviser drew Mrs Gs attention to an in-scheme alternative as it referred to in-house AVCs. 
And although I think the various options probably were discussed in generic terms, as was 
required, the leaflet explaining the differences was also provided to Mrs G. This leaflet 
referenced the differences in charges and fees between the FSAVC and the in-house 
options under the heading Cost:
It is difficult to be specific with regard to the difference in costs between AVCs and 
FSAVCs as product structures vary considerably. The cost of running your AVC or 
FSAVC is important as it will affect your final benefits, however you should also take 
into account other factors such as the funds you are investing in and the financial 
strength of your provider to be able to select the appropriate investments that make 
up these funds in the case of with profit plans.
In many cases the employer bears some, or all of the administration costs whereas 
in the case of an FSAVC these costs are borne by the customer
Im satisfied that this, when taken in conjunction with the discussion that probably occurred, 
makes it sufficiently clear that the charges associated with the in-house options were likely to 
be lower than with the FSAVC. 
So I dont agree Prudential didnt do enough in explaining the differences between the 
FSAVC and her in-house options, and Im satisfied it fulfilled its obligations for tied advisers 
under RU20 when recommending FSAVCs to a consumer. Im satisfied that Mrs G was 
made aware of the availability of AVCs and that charges were likely to be potentially lower 
than the FSAVC option. Im also satisfied she was made sufficiently aware of the potential 
for her to purchase added years as an alternative. 
Given her circumstances and objectives at the time of the advice, Im satisfied an FSAVC 
was not unsuitable for her.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman