DRN-2406493
The complaint
Miss S complains that TSB Bank PLC closed her bank account and wont return money held 
in the account to her. 
What happened
Miss S had an account with TSB. When Miss S opened her account, she told the bank that 
she intended to use the account to receive her wages, which were around £2,000 each 
month and pay bills.
On 10 December 2019, a faster payment for £2,000 was made into Miss Ss account. The 
money was withdrawn in cash on the same day. On 15 December 2019, a faster payment 
for £3,000 was made into the account from the same payee as the £2,000 credit. 
TSB took the view that it needed to look into the payments and how Miss S was operating 
her account. TSB spoke to Miss S and asked her about the payments. Miss S told the bank 
the £2,000 payment was a gift from her employer. And the £3,000 was wages shed earnt. 
Miss S gave the bank copies of her payslip, P45, statements from her employers account 
and letters from HMRC to show she was entitled to the funds.
TSB reviewed the information Miss S had provided.  But it wasnt satisfied it showed Miss S 
was entitled to the money. So, it didnt release the £3,000 to her. TSB also decided to close 
Miss Ss account and gave her 60 days notice.
Miss S wasnt happy with this response, so she brought her complaint to our service where 
an investigator considered it. The investigator reviewed the information Miss S had provided 
and agreed with the banks assessment. He also said that TSB hadnt done anything wrong 
when it reviewed and closed Miss Ss account. 
Miss S didnt accept the investigators view. She said shed provided all she could about the 
payments into her account. And she wants her money. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss S feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from whats 
shes said to us and to TSB. Whilst I appreciate Miss Ss frustration, its important to point 
out that the only thing in question here is whether TSB has done what it should have done. 
And I think it has. Ill explain why.
The investigator was right to point out that TSB has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
TSB may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. And ask questions 
about payments into and out of an account. If TSB didnt comply with its obligations it could 
risk serious sanction.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for TSB to block Miss Ss account and ask Miss S for information about the money which 
had been paid into her account. TSB has explained that this was its standard procedure, and 
I accept that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Miss S inconvenience, I cant say TSB 
treated her unfairly.
Miss S says the money going into her account on 15 December 2019 was two months 
salary. Miss S has provided paperwork she says shows she is entitled to the £3,000 which 
was paid into her account. Having looked at the documents, I dont agree, and I can 
understand why the bank had concerns. And hasnt released the money to her. 
I say this because the pay slip Miss S has provided is dated 5 January 2020, which is after 
the money was paid into her account. I can also see that the HMRC letter shows Miss S as 
starting her employment on 6 January 2020 and ending on 5 January 2020  a day earlier, 
which doesnt make any sense. And makes me question the authenticity of the documents 
Miss S has provided. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest Miss S was employed by 
the company or individual whod sent the payment, such as an employment contract. I note 
too that this employer is different to the company Miss S told the bank she worked for when 
she opened her account. So, when I weigh everything up, I share the investigators 
assessment, that this paperwork doesnt show Miss S is entitled to the money paid into her 
account.
It maybe that Miss S can now provide more information about the money paid into her 
account to the bank.  But, in the circumstances, I can understand why TSB wanted to know 
more about the funds. I can understand too why it didnt consider Miss S had adequately 
explained her entitlement to the money. So, I cant say TSB has done anything wrong when 
it decided not to release the money to Miss S. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss Ss account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
TSB closed Miss Ss accounts by giving her two months notice. So, it was entitled to close 
the account as it has already done. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Miss S when TSB blocked and closed 
her account. And didnt release funds to her. So, I realise she will be disappointed by my 
decision. But I dont believe TSB acted unreasonably or treated Miss S unfairly in taking the 
actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman