DRN-3966461
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited (who Ill call SMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint SMF, but I dont think repairs have been successful here and I think 
Mr M should have been allowed to reject the car. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was about 
six years old and had already completed about 79,040 miles. So, I think a reasonable person 
would expect it to be experiencing some wear and tear, but I dont think theyd expect to 
experience the issues Mr M did, so early in the cars life.
Im persuaded there was a fault with this car that had been developing from the point it was 
supplied because:
Mr M had issues with the coolant level within a couple of months of taking receipt of 
the car.
The coolant needed topping up more often than could be considered reasonable.
There was a need for the dealership to replace the head gasket and that issue was 
identified quite soon after Mr M had taken receipt of the car.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present, or 
developing, when the car was supplied.
I think SMF had that opportunity when they attempted a repair in May 2022. But I think that 
repair was inadequate. I say that because:
Mr M has provided a video that shows the coolant pouring out of the bottom of the 
car when he tries to top it up. 
The garage Mr M subsequently took the car to (who Ill call R) noted that the 
pressure regulator had been snapped off the coolant tank and there was a hole in it. 
Silicone sealant used in an inadequate repair had blown out. They provided a 
photograph of that issue.
I cant see that the subsequent inspections the business commissioned were tasked 
with clarifying whether the previous repairs had been adequate. The independent 
inspector had only been asked to consider if the car was overheating and the garage 
invoice explains that under test the car wouldnt overheat.
Im persuaded its likely the dealership completed further repairs after Mr M asked to 
reject the car. I say that because, in the subsequent inspections the business 
commissioned, theres no mention of the hole in the coolant tank that R had provided 
evidence of. I think that would have been noticeable had it not been repaired.
The inspection by a mechanic Ill call (C) that Mr M commissioned in July 2022 
noted blue and black smoke coming from the exhaust and didnt think repairs had 
been adequate.
So Im persuaded that the repairs completed in May 2022 werent satisfactory and in those 
circumstances the relevant legislation allows a consumer to reject the car.
Putting things right
SMF should take the car back and end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund the finance instalments Mr M has paid but the relevant legislation 
allows them to retain some of those to reflect the usage Mr M has had from the car. Mr M 
was able to use the car until 16 February 2022 when R identified the fault. But he was 
without the car for much of the time from February 2022 until the car was returned in late 
June 2022. The current mileage is 82,696 which means the car has covered 3,656 miles 
since Mr M took receipt of it in September 2021. Given the concerns Mr M has highlighted 
and that were confirmed in July 2022 by C, I dont think Mr M has been unreasonable not to 
have used the car since the MOT expired in August 2022. Taking all of that information into 
account I think the business should refund any finance instalments paid (or waive them if 
they were due and havent been paid) from 16 February 2022, but with the exception of July 
2022 when Mr M appears to have had some use of the car. Theyll need to add interest to 
the refund as Mr M has been deprived of that money.
Mr M has also experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of this issue. Hes had to 
make arrangements for the car to be repaired and problems diagnosed. Hes also had to 
refer his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those 
circumstances I think SMF should pay him £250 compensation.
It wouldnt be fair for Mr M to have to pay for the diagnostics hes had to commission, but 
hes confirmed that R provided their opinions free of charge, and that the cost of the report from C has been refunded to him. So I dont think its necessary to consider that refund any 
further.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited to:
End the agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr M. 
Refund all monthly payments for the period from 16 February 2022 to
the date of settlement, with the exception of the monthly payment for July 2022
which SMF can keep for fair usage.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment
until the date of settlement.
Pay a further amount of £250 to compensate Mr M for the distress and 
inconvenience thats been caused.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr Ms credit file in 
relation to this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman