DRN-1642004
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Miss S says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Miss S applied for a credit card with Lloyds in 1999. At the same time, it sold her PPI that 
was designed to help protect her repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Miss S didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss S case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
From the copy credit agreement Miss S signed, Im satisfied she was made aware 
Lloyds was selling optional PPI and that she ticked for it to be added. I can 
understand if she doesnt remember that now after so many years.  
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms S, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, I cant see that shed have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of her 
sick pay, for up to 12 months per claim. She had limited other means of making her 
credit card repayments if she wasnt working. Overall, I think shed have found the 
PPI useful. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. And it looks as though it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. I also cant see that shed have found it unaffordable. 
 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Miss S has lost out because of how Lloyds 
sold her the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman