DRN-3191862
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined to port their 
mortgage. They ask that it refunds the early repayment charge (ERC) they paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2008. They moved in 2012 and theyve 
taken out additional borrowing since then. Mr and Mrs L took out fixed interest rate products 
with ERCs. In late 2020 they applied to port the mortgage and increase their borrowing as 
they wanted to move home. 
Nationwide declined, saying the borrowing wasnt affordable. Mr and Mrs L took out a 
mortgage with another lender and paid the ERC to Nationwide. They say the way 
Nationwide assessed the bonus part of Mr Ls income was unfair and this forced them to go 
elsewhere.
Our investigator said Nationwide hadnt treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly. He said it was entitled 
to apply the ERC.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. They said the way Nationwide applied its criteria to Mr Ls income 
was unfair, as theyd provided letters from his employer confirming his income was 
guaranteed. They said this meant they couldnt move to a larger house in the area, and were 
effectively mortgage prisoners.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In late 2020 Mr and Mrs L contacted Nationwide as they wanted to move house. They 
wanted to port their mortgage and increase their borrowing. Nationwide assessed the 
amount Mr and Mrs L wanted to borrow as unaffordable. Mr and Mrs L say this was because 
of the unfair way Nationwide treated Mr Ls income.
Mr Ls income was part basic salary and part bonus, which he could draw on a monthly 
basis. Mr Ls employment contract sets out the basis of the bonus. The contract says the 
bonus would be paid at the employers discretion, taking into account performance targets. 
However, Mr and Mrs L provided letters from Mr Ls employer which in effect say that while 
Mr Ls income is made up of salary and bonus his income of about £50,000 is guaranteed  
he could earn more but would never earn less than this.
Mr and Mrs L had taken out fixed interest rate products. These included ERCs which applied 
when the mortgage was repaid. Mr and Mrs L agreed to this when they took out the 
products. While these products were portable, the product offers said any application would 
be subject to lending criteria at that time. 
Nationwide has criteria about how it assesses different types of income. Nationwide took into 
account the evidence Mr and Mrs L provided about Mr Ls income  it included a higher 
proportion of Mr Ls bonus income in its affordability assessment than it would usually. I think 
that was fair. Despite this, Nationwide still assessed the amount Mr and Mrs L wanted to 
borrow as unaffordable.
Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide assessed their original mortgage and additional borrowing as 
affordable in the past. I dont think this means it was unfair for Nationwide to decline their 
application in late 2020, especially given that Mr and Mrs L wanted to increase their 
borrowing by about £120,000. In fact, the evidence suggests that Nationwide would likely 
have assessed an application to port the mortgage balance with a smaller amount of 
additional borrowing as affordable. 
Lenders have different criteria. Mr and Mrs L successfully applied for a mortgage with 
another lender. This meant they could buy the property they wanted with a mortgage from 
another lender, but would have to pay the ERCs to Nationwide. Or they could stay with 
Nationwide and look for a less expensive property. I appreciate this was a difficult choice. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ls frustration about paying the ERCs. But I dont think 
Nationwide treated them unfairly. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Nationwide 
to refund the ERCs.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman