DRN-3160837
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made on 
her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms J had the benefit of an annual, multi-trip, silver travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
URV (the policy). The policy covered the period 11 March 2020 to 10 March 2021.
Ms J travelled to a country Ill call N on 11 March 2020. She was due to return to the UK at 
the end of March 2020. 
On 21 March 2020, N imposed a lockdown, which included halting international flights with 
effect of 23 March 2020. And the airline who Ms J was due to fly back to the UK with 
cancelled her return flight. As a result, Ms J ended up staying in N until she was able to 
secure a flight back to the UK on 8 April 2020. 
As the UK airport she returned to was different to the one she originally departed from (and 
had been due to return to), she took a coach back to where her car had been parked.
Ms J made a claim under the policy for certain costs including the return flight back to the 
UK, the extra accommodation costs incurred by staying in N past her intended departure 
date and coach costs. 
Her claim was declined by URV on the basis that the policy didnt provide cover for the 
extension of her trip due to a cancelled flight by an airline. 
Unhappy, Ms J raised a complaint with URV. URV maintained its position that the 
circumstances which led to her claim wasnt something covered under any sections of the 
policy. 
Ms J brought a complaint to our Service, but it wasnt upheld by our investigator. Ms J didnt 
agree with the outcome, so her complaint has been passed to me to look at everything 
afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and promptly. And they shouldnt unreasonably decline a claim. Ive 
taken these rules into account when reaching my decision. 
I know Ms J will be very disappointed, but Im satisfied URV has acted fairly and reasonably 
when declining her claim. Ill explain why below.
Page 15 of the policy provides cover for certain costs if Ms Js outbound travel plans 
are disrupted due to certain listed, insured reasons. I dont think the circumstances 
that led to her trip being extended fall within this section of the policy. Mrs Js 
outbound trip from the UK wasnt disrupted  her inbound trip back to the UK was.  
Having reviewed the remaining sections of the policy, Im also satisfied that there 
isnt any other cover in the circumstances Ms J found herself in. For example, page 
17 of the policy provides for URV to pay certain costs if Ms J needed to come home 
early due to listed, insured reasons. But her trip wasnt cut short. She departed N  to 
return to the UK  around a week after shed originally planned to do so. Ive also 
thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to consider that Ms Js trip 
was effectively curtailed from around 21 March 2020 which is when she says she 
was confined to the hotel she was staying at due to Ns government imposing a 
lockdown. But none of the prescribed reasons set out in this section of the policy 
apply to the circumstances which resulted in this happening. For example, she or 
friends with whom she was travelling hadnt been ill or injured. The natural disaster 
section of the policy (at page 21) doesnt apply to the circumstances Ms J found 
herself in either, as she didnt need to move accommodation. 
I also note that page 13 of the policy sets out the conditions and exclusions 
applicable to all sections of the policy. It says Ms J isnt covered because of any 
prohibitive regulations by customs or other government officials or authorities of any 
country. Ms J says her return flight to the UK was cancelled because of Ns 
governments announcement that the country would be going into lockdown and 
international flights were halted. So, not only were the circumstances for Ms Js 
return flight being cancelled (leading to her trip being extended) not covered as listed, 
insured events under the policy, Im satisfied that the reason for her claim was a 
prohibitive regulation issued by government officials. And its likely this exclusion 
would apply to the circumstances of Ms Js claim.
Ive considered all of Ms Js comments including those set out in an email dated 13 
November 2021. Whilst I appreciate Ms J has been left out of pocket as a result of 
her return flight being cancelled (through no fault of her own) - and I can only imagine 
how stressful the situation mustve been for her whilst in N, waiting for a flight home - 
travel insurance policies dont cover every scenario. Ms J also says the claims made 
by the friends shed been travelling with in N had been accepted and paid under their 
travel insurance policies. However, that doesnt necessarily mean URV has unfairly 
by declining Ms Js claim. Travel insurance policies are different and often contain 
different terms depending on the risks each individual insurer wants to insure, and 
the level of cover purchased. Having considered the terms of the policy Ms J had the 
benefit of, I dont think URV acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining her claim for 
the reasons set out above.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Js complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman