DRN-3148381
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a claim for damage 
to a rental property he owns.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr R made a claim under his property owners policy with Aviva, for fire 
damage to a property he rents out. A loss adjuster was appointed, and a site visit took place.
Following this visit, the claim was rejected on the grounds that the terms and conditions of 
the policy had been breached. Aviva cited a number of terms which it believed had not been 
met by the policyholder, including the requirement that the property was visited and 
inspected regularly, and that credit checks and references were carried out in respect of 
each tenant. There was also mention of a microwave being used in one of the studio flats, 
when under the policy, cooking facilities were restricted to the kitchen only.
Mr R disagreed with Avivas decision to decline the claim. His representative said a log book 
had been provided to Aviva, showing that the property had been visited and inspected as 
required under the policy. He also said the tenant had been renting the property for over a 
year before the policy inception date, so Mr R was able to provide a reference himself based 
on the one year management relationship. He told Aviva that during the last inspection there 
was no microwave in the studio flat, and that he didnt consider a microwave to fall under the 
category of cooking facilities in any case, as it warmed food but was not used for cooking.
Aviva said these points didnt change its decision to decline the claim, because it still 
believed the policy terms hadnt been complied with. So Mr R referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered all the information from both parties, but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He said the evidence wasnt sufficient to show the conditions of 
the policy had been met and so he didnt think it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline the 
claim for the reasons it did.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators assessment, saying, among other things, that the 
policy conditions lack detail and what is required under his policy is therefore unclear. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The conditions Aviva has said were not met by Mr R are as follows:
c) each Residential Unit is visited and inspected at least every 90 days by You, Your 
letting or managing agent
d) cooking facilities are located in kitchen facilities separate from sleeping and living 
accommodation
e) credit checks are carried out and references obtained in respect of every separate 
tenant and/or guarantor.
Ive considered each condition in turn, alongside the available evidence, to determine 
whether I think it was fair for Aviva to rely on these conditions when declining the claim.
In relation to condition (c), Mr R provided Aviva with a log of inspections. The inspections on 
this log are dated 25 November 2018, 24 February 2019 and 23 May 2019, indicating that 
inspections took place within the 90 days specified in the policy. Our investigator didnt think 
the log contained sufficient detail of the inspections, in order to meet the requirement under 
the policy. Mr R says the level of detail required was never specified in the policy. He says a 
weekly inspection of the common areas wouldve taken place either by cleaners or 
managing agents, and another inspection would take place every 90 days when the studio 
flats were inspected internally. And that as the policy didnt specify the level of detail 
required, the inspection log provided should be sufficient.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R has said and have also referred to the available 
documentary evidence. The inspection log shows the inspection date, the flat number, and 
has a Remarks section next to each inspection which states All Ok and secure. Having 
considered the purpose of the relevant endorsement, I agree with our investigator and I dont 
think the log provides sufficient detail of the inspections which took place. It doesnt give any 
information about who completed the inspections and what was checked. More detail in the 
remarks section of the log would have persuaded me that a proper inspection of all the areas 
took place. But, based on the available evidence, it doesnt appear that a proper inspection 
did take place. This is because I consider that the comment All Ok and secure is unspecific 
and vague, so could easily be made following a cursory glance, rather than a proper 
inspection. And so Im not persuaded that the evidence shows proper inspections took place. 
I appreciate what Mr R has said about this type of log being common practice amongst 
managing agents. However, from my own research into this area, it appears its 
recommended for various specific checks to be carried out at each inspection and for a 
standard inspection form to be drawn up and completed at each visit, together with 
signatures and photographic evidence. Mr R says photos of the flats werent taken as the 
tenants werent comfortable with this, which I can understand. And whilst I agree with Mr R 
that the policy itself isnt explicit about what needs to be noted down at each inspection, I still 
think the log provided doesnt contain much of the information that would reasonably be 
expected in a document of this nature, following a proper inspection of each flat and the 
communal areas.
Ive also considered that in the site report provided, its been noted that a tenant was running 
a number of extension cables from the communal kitchen into his studio flat. Whether or not 
this was the cause of the fire, I think a proper inspection taking place wouldve noted this as 
a concern. So, taking everything into account, I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to 
maintain that endorsement (c) was not met.
In relation to condition (d), regarding cooking facilities, the parties dont agree about whether 
the microwave was indeed seen in the studio flat. Mr R says the managing agent doesnt 
recall seeing it inside the flat, whereas Avivas claim notes state that at the time of its 
inspection, there was a microwave in the studio flat, in breach of condition (d). There is also some disagreement about whether a microwave constitutes a cooking facility. I wont 
comment further on this point, as I understand that Aviva is no longer relying on condition (d) 
for the purposes of declining the claim. 
In relation to condition (e) which requires a credit check to be carried out and references to 
be obtained in respect of each tenant, Mr R says this condition was met prior to the tenant 
being accepted. He says the tenant occupied the property for over a year, so he was 
referenced in-house and, as he had paid his rent for over a year without any issues, this 
constituted a suitable credit check.
Ive considered the evidence supplied by Mr R which is a letter confirming that credit checks 
and references were undertaken as standard procedure by the charity which housed the 
tenant previously. Whilst I accept this means a credit check was undertaken prior to the 
tenancy commencing, I dont think this meets the requirements under condition (e) of the 
policy. The policy clearly states that credit checks and references are necessary. And I dont 
think its reasonable to rely on a credit check carried out over one year previously, to 
determine someones credit worthiness at the current time. This is because credit ratings 
can change over time based on external factors, such as debts and other variables. And 
Mr R hasnt been able to provide the original credit check or reference because these 
werent retained for record-keeping purposes. So whilst I can appreciate Mr Rs argument 
that the tenant had maintained a good record of paying his rent on time, this does not satisfy 
me that a proper credit check was carried out.
Mr R has said credit check isnt a defined term under the policy. Hes provided the 
dictionary definition of credit check which is an examination of someones credit history 
(record of debt) by, for example, a financial organisation that is considering lending money or 
a possible employer. But this definition doesnt support Mr Rs position. I dont consider that 
a lender or employer would base their decision on one factor such as a history of making 
rental payments on time, which is not the equivalent of an examination of someones credit 
history. An examination of someones credit history will usually involve checking more than 
one financial commitment, such as looking at a persons credit file, an income and 
expenditure assessment, or any other such check that provides a fuller picture of that 
persons finances. I appreciate this will be frustrating for Mr R, as he clearly had a belief that 
the tenant would be able to make the rental payments without any problems. But I have to 
consider what kind of check would meet the condition of the policy, and for the reasons Ive 
given, I dont think an in-house assessment of the kind Mr R carried out was sufficient.
Ive noted Mr Rs comments about items to which the HMO condition applies not being 
identified on the schedule with an x. But I dont think its fair for Mr R to say on the one 
hand that the conditions were met, and also say that the conditions dont apply. In any event, 
Im satisfied the conditions applied in this case, as on page 1 of the schedule, endorsement 
AVIVA12 is included in the list of endorsements which apply  and its clear this is due to 
the property being a HMO. So I dont consider it necessary for there to be an x placed next 
to the applicable endorsements, as its evident from the schedule that all the included 
endorsements would be relevant to this policy.
Im afraid therefore, that for the reasons Ive given, I dont consider it unreasonable for Aviva 
to have declined the claim on the basis that the policy conditions werent met. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman