DRN-3561831
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited (Erudio) have incorrectly defaulted her 
account without letting her know.
What happened
Mrs W took out student loans as an undergraduate and later as a postgraduate with the
Student Loans Company (SLC). Mrs W has never earned enough to repay any of the loans
and has applied to defer repayments each year as required.
In March 2014 the undergraduate loans were transferred from SLC to Erudio to administer.
At this point Mrs Ws loans were all in deferment. Erudio was given Mrs Ws address from
SLC.
Mrs W moved to a new house in August 2014 and advised SLC of her new address. She
also completed deferment forms for her loans. It appears that SLC deferred the loans that it
was administering but no deferment forms were sent to Erudio and as a result the account
became repayable in January 2015. Erudio sent repayment reminders, arrears notices and a
default notice, all to Mrs Ws old address. The account defaulted in June 2016.
Erudio appointed a debt collector to trace Mrs W and that company eventually contacted Mrs
W in 2018. Mrs W then tried to deal with the matter with the debt recovery company. Despite
the information from the debt recovery company Erudio continued to write to Mrs W at her
old address until she made a complaint in December 2020.
Mrs W complained to Erudio that she was never made aware that it was involved and she
continued to send her deferral form to SLC. She asked for the deferment to be re-instated.
Erudio responded that it was Mrs Ws responsibility to update her address and the account
had been correctly defaulted. Mrs W brought her complaint to this service. Mrs W also 
complained that Erudio had incorrectly handled her SAR when dealing with the complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. They didnt think that
Erudio was at fault as SLC had given it Mrs Ws old address and so it could only write to her
at the address it had been given. In dealing with the SAR they thought that the offer of £100
for the delay and the attempts to fulfil the request and put matters right was fair and
reasonable.
Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. When I looked at
the matter initially, I asked the investigator to request any letters that were sent to Mrs W by
Erudio at the point it took over the account. Erudio did not respond despite an email and
telephone request so I made a provisional decision upholding the complaint based on the 
information on 31 May 2022.
Erudio responded to my provisional decision and stated it did not agree as Mrs W was 
informed of the assignment of her loans. It enclosed a copy of a letter that it states was sent 
to Mrs W in March 2014 confirming that her loans had been purchased by Erudio.
Mrs W responded to my decision stating she agreed with my conclusions and she had never 
been sent a copy of the letter that has now been produced. Mrs W stated that she had asked 
Erudio for all correspondence that was sent to her previous address and this letter was 
never included. In addition Mrs W points out that the letter addresses her by her maiden 
name despite telling SLC that she was married in 2009. Mrs W stated that if she had 
received this letter she would have made the appropriate arrangements to defer her loans 
with Erudio.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a long and complex background to this case which is not necessary for me to
rehearse in detail in this decision. I would like to assure the parties that I have considered all
the information afresh in detail in the light of the responses to my provisional decision. I will 
focus on explaining my reasoning as much of the subsequent developments flow from the 
transfer of the account to Erudio.
I am not persuaded that Erudio told Mrs W that it had taken over the handling of her loans in 
March 2014 despite the letter it has now produced. It is striking that this letter has never 
been disclosed, either in response to Mrs Ws request for all the letters sent to her previous 
address or as part of the original file submission to this service. Erudio did not respond to 
either telephone calls or an email requesting this information prior to the making of my 
provisional decision. 
Further, Mrs W states that she did not receive this letter. She states that it is in her maiden 
name, despite the fact that she married in 2009 and informed SLC of her change of name. 
Mrs W also states that if she had received the letter she would have notified Erudio of a 
change of address as she did with SLC. 
I note that the letter states, under the heading Next Steps as follows;
Our records indicate that you do not have a repayment plan in place. Please contact 
us ..We have the expertise to help you to review your situation, tell you what your options 
are, and tailor a payment plan that you can afford.
That information was incorrect as Mrs W had deferred repayments and the deferment 
arrangement was not due for review until November. If Erudio had sent this letter and Mrs W 
did not contact them in response then I would have expected it to send a further chasing 
letter. There is no information in this letter which explains to Mrs W that Erudio will send 
deferral forms for completion in November in the same way that SLC had done. 
 
Erudio had Mrs Ws address and was aware that her account was in deferment and
had been that way for a considerable period of time. It seems reasonable to conclude that
this would be the position for the following year and that Mrs W was likely to apply to defer.
The application for deferment was sent to Mrs W in November 2014. It appears likely that 
this was the first time that Erudio had written to Mrs W. It is also of note that the application 
form was returned to Erudio and so at that stage it was aware that Mrs W was not receiving 
post from Erudio.
Mrs W had notified SLC of her change of address and completed her deferral forms for the
loans it continued to administer. She says she was not aware that Erudio was involved and if
she had been, she would have completed deferral forms for those loans as well.
I consider that Mrs Ws testimony is very persuasive. Mrs W had no reason not to completethe deferral forms as she is in receipt of benefit and would automatically be entitled to a
deferment. Mrs W has consistently completed these forms each year. Mrs W made sure that
SLC were made aware of her new address. It seems likely to me, based on the information I 
have, that Mrs W was not made aware that Erudio were involved and the letter dated March 
2014 never reached her. Mrs W had no reason not to complete the forms and she has never 
earned enough for the loan to become repayable.
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Erudio to have written to Mrs W at the point of
taking over the account to let her know what had happened with her loans and set out her
obligations with regard to a subsequent deferral. Even if Erudio sent the letter in March 2014 
I dont consider that this was enough or that it has acted fairly before defaulting the account. 
I dont think it can be reasonable to say that Mrs W was responsible for telling Erudio she 
had moved when she was never aware it was involved.
Further, despite being aware that correspondence was not reaching Mrs W at her old 
address and being aware from a debt recovery company that it had instructed that Mrs W 
had moved house it continued to write to Mrs W at her old address. I dont currently consider 
that this is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. It is clear to me that administrative issues 
with the transfer to Erudio has caused a problem with the continuity of the deferral. Mrs W 
has never sought to avoid her obligations and I dont consider that Erudio should be able to 
take advantage of administrative confusion to demand repayment of a debt that would 
otherwise not be repayable.  
I dont think that Mrs W is at fault and Erudio should have done more before defaulting the 
account. I therefore uphold this complaint and require Erudio to put Mrs W back in the 
position she would have been in if she had been aware that Erudio were administering the 
account. This means that Erudio will need to arrange to remove the default and place the 
account back into deferred status.
I think that the failure to keep Mrs W fully informed about the transfer of her account has had
significant consequences for her. She has been attempting to resolve this matter for a
number of years and has explained that the whole process has been very distressing. She is
in receipt of benefits, has been chased by debt collectors and had a default registered
against her. Mrs Ws attempts to find out exactly what was sent to her previous address
have been unnecessarily convoluted. I consider that in addition to putting the account back
to deferred status Erudio should also pay Mrs W £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
I am not able to consider the SAR request as part of this complaint as this is more properly
dealt with by the Information Commissioner.
Putting things right
Erudio should take steps to remove the default and place the account back into the position 
it would have been in if Mrs W had completed the deferral forms. If this means the loans 
would have been written off then Erudio should arrange to do this.
Erudio should pay Mrs W £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Erudio should put things right by doing 
as I have set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman