DRN-3624978
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has voided her commercial insurance policy, 
retained the premiums and declined a claim for fire damage.
What happened
Miss K had a commercial insurance policy with UKI that covered a number of properties she 
rents out. In June 2021 there was a fire at one of Miss Ks rental properties, so she 
contacted UKI to make a claim. Shortly after making the claim, there was a second fire at the 
property.
During the course of the claim investigation, UKI discovered Miss K had an unsatisfied 
County Court Judgement (CCJ) she hadnt disclosed when taking out her insurance cover 
via her broker. They also discovered shed been prosecuted for breaches as a landlord for 
her rental properties, and shed received a criminal conviction for a separate offence, which 
she hadnt told UKI about either.
UKI asked for clarification about the information theyd discovered which hadnt been 
disclosed. Ultimately UKI said that if Miss K had disclosed the information when taking out 
her policy, they wouldnt have been able to offer cover. They voided (treated it as if never 
existed) Miss Ks policy, declined the fire claim and retained the premiums shed paid.
Miss K was unhappy with UKIs actions, so she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He said that UKI had 
acted in line with the relevant law which applied, and hadnt acted unfairly by voiding the 
policy, declining the claim and retaining the premiums. 
Miss K didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K had a commercial insurance policy with UKI, and this covered her properties she 
rents out. So, Miss K is a commercial customer of UKI, with a commercial insurance policy. 
That means the relevant law which applies here is the Insurance Act 2015.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, the insured has a duty to make a fair presentation of risk to 
an insurer when taking out a policy. UKI says there were several material points that Miss K 
didnt disclose when taking out her policy via her broker. So, they say Miss K didnt make a 
fair presentation of risk. UKI said if Miss K had disclosed the material points, they wouldnt 
have offered her a policy. So, theyve voided it, declined her claim and retained the 
premiums.
The Insurance Act 2015 places an obligation on the insured to provide a fair presentation of 
the risk to the insurer. In summary, Miss K had a duty to make a fair presentation of risk to 
the insurer and this includes disclosing every material circumstance which the insured 
knows, or ought to know. Or failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient 
information to put a prudent insurer on notice to make further enquiries for the purpose of 
revealing those material circumstances. And the circumstance or facts are material if it would 
influence the judgement of a prudent insurer in determining whether to take on the risk.
If there hasnt been a fair presentation of risk, the Insurance Act 2015 then goes on to 
consider whether there has been a qualifying breach. This means if the insured had made a 
fair presentation of risk, would the insurer have acted differently by not offering a policy, or 
offering it on different terms.
And if there has been a qualifying breach, the Insurance Act 2015 allows the insurer a 
number of remedies and these depend on whether the qualifying breach was deliberate or 
reckless or not.
UKI has said there was a qualifying breach, and that breach was reckless or deliberate. 
Thats why theyve voided the policy, declined the claim and retained the premiums. A 
deliberate or reckless breach is outlined in the Insurance Act 2015 as:
(5) A qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless if the insured  
(a) knew that it was in breach of the duty of fair presentation, or
(b) did not care whether or not it was in breach of that duty. 
(6) It is for the insurer to show that a qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, where there has been a deliberate or reckless breach, this 
gives the insurer several remedies: 
Deliberate or reckless breaches
If a qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless, the insurer  
(a) may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, and
(b) need not return any of the premiums paid.
UKI has treated it as a reckless or deliberate qualifying breach, and this is why theyve 
voided the policy, retained the premiums and declined the claim. So, I need to consider 
whether UKI has acted in line with the Insurance Act 2015, and if this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
There were three key points where UKI says Miss K didnt make a fair presentation of risk. 
Ill consider each separately.
The county court judgement
Miss K received a CCJ in 2017, but she didnt make UKI aware of this when taking out her 
policy via her broker in December 2020. The CCJ was also unsatisfied at that time.
UKI has referred to the policy statement of fact Miss K was sent after she purchased the 
policy which showed the information they needed to know about, along with a number of 
assumptions prominently highlighted. This said:
Neither the proposer, director or partner of the Trade or Business or its Subsidiary 
Companies either personally or in any business capacity:has been the subject of a County Court Judgement and/or cited in any unsatisfied 
court judgements (or the Scottish equivalent) in the last 10 years;
The policy documents also highlighted the importance of all the information being correct, 
and what may happen if it isnt. They also highlighted prominently that the policyholder was 
under a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk, and the consequences of not doing so.
Miss K said she wasnt aware of the unsatisfied CCJ when she took out the policy via her 
broker, and she says this is why she didnt tell UKI about it.
When considering the Insurance Act 2015, part of this is considering whether there has been 
a qualifying breach, and what the insurer would have done if they had received a fair 
presentation of risk.
UKI have provided their underwriting criteria. I cant share this with Miss K as it is 
commercially sensitive. But in summary, there are occasions where UKI may provide cover if 
there has been a CCJ previously. This depends on the answer to a number of questions and 
the circumstances surrounding a CCJ.
However, UKI didnt void the policy solely on the basis of the undisclosed CCJ, or that the 
answer to the questions about it would have resulted in them not being able to offer cover. 
So, I dont need to consider whether there was a fair presentation of risk in relation to this, or 
a qualifying breach, or whether UKI was fair and reasonable to treat the breach here 
specifically as deliberate or reckless. This is because the undeclared CCJ wasnt the sole 
reason UKI took the actions they did.
Instead UKI voided the policy, declined the claim and retained the premiums for other 
reasons, which Ill consider separately below.
Rental property prosecutions
During the course of the claim investigation, UKI discovered Miss K had been prosecuted for 
breaches of HMO regulations and the Housing Act 2004 in relation to some of her rental 
properties. Shed also received a large fine.
UKI said they wouldnt have provided cover had they been made aware of this when Miss K 
took out the policy via her broker. UKI has referred to the statement of fact Miss K was sent 
after she purchased the policy which showed the information they needed to know about, 
along with a number of assumptions prominently highlighted. This said:
Your trade or Business or its Subsidiary Companies:
Comply with all your legal obligations as a landlord.
UKI says Miss K didnt comply with this as she was prosecuted and fined in relation to 
breaches relating to her rental properties.
In line with the Insurance Act 2015, I need to consider whether Miss K has made a fair 
presentation of risk to UKI when taking out her policy via her broker. Miss K has said she 
wasnt prosecuted at the time she took the policy out, instead this happened at a later date, 
after the policy inception. So, she says this was the reason she didnt tell UKI, as it hadnt yet 
happened.
UKI obtained information from the local authority that prosecuted Miss K in order to establish 
a timeline of what had occurred. The offences which Miss K was later prosecuted for pre-date the inception of her policy. However, the prosecution didnt happen until several months 
after the policy started, and based on what Ive seen, it doesnt appear it was pending prior 
to taking out the policy. Instead Miss K had been written to and invited under caution for an 
interview.
With this in mind, I dont think Miss K hasnt made a fair presentation of risk in relation to the 
prosecution, or that UKI wouldve done anything differently. The underwriting criteria is 
based on actually having, or a having a pending, conviction or prosecution at inception, 
which wasnt relevant here. So, I cant conclude UKI would be acting fairly or reasonably by 
relying on this point alone to void the policy, decline the claim, or retain the premiums.
However, this doesnt mean UKI acted unfairly by taking the action they did, as their decision 
wasnt solely based on this either. Ill consider the other reason below.
Criminal conviction
UKI discovered Miss K had received a criminal conviction prior to taking out her policy, and 
this conviction wasnt spent by that point. They say Miss K should have made them aware of 
this when taking out her policy via her broker.
UKI have said Miss K didnt make a fair presentation of risk, there was a qualifying breach, 
and this was deliberate or reckless.
The policy documents Miss K received after purchasing her policy outlined the following 
declaration:
Neither the proposer, director or partner of the Trade or Business or its Subsidiary 
Companies either personally or in any business capacity:
b) have ever been convicted or charged (but not yet tried) with a breach of any health 
and safety legislation or any other criminal offence other than parking or speeding 
offences or offences which are spent under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974.
Miss K told her broker that she had previously received a warning. But this wasnt correct, as 
at that time she had already received a formal conviction. Miss K says she didnt tell UKI (or 
her broker) about her unspent criminal conviction as she didnt think it was relevant to her 
owning and letting out properties, or relevant to her insurance policy with UKI.
Given the policy documents outlined the above declaration, although Miss K didnt think it 
was relevant, I think it was clear this was something UKI needed to know about and was 
important in relation to the insurance policy being offered by them. And as Miss K didnt tell 
UKI about it, or that her documents werent accurately showing the correct position, I dont 
think she made a fair presentation of risk to UKI.Ive gone on to consider what UKI wouldve done if Miss K had told them about it and made 
a fair presentation of risk. UKI has demonstrated that their underwriting criteria shows they 
wouldnt have offered a policy had they known about her conviction. So, Im satisfied there 
has been a qualifying breach.
UKI has treated the qualifying breach as deliberate or reckless.
As Ive mentioned, the policy documents make it clear that UKI needs to be told about any 
convictions that arent spent, parking or speeding related. So, I think it was made clear to 
Miss K that under the duty of fair presentation, under the Insurance Act 2015, this is 
something she should have told them about. And Miss K chose not to on the basis she didnt 
think it was relevant as it wasnt in relation to her letting out properties.
I note Miss K says she doesnt agree with the criminal conviction she received, but that isnt 
relevant to whether she should or shouldnt have told UKI about it. So, taking everything into 
account, I dont think UKI has acted unfairly by treating it as a deliberate or reckless breach.
Ive outlined above the remedies available to UKI where there has been a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying breach under the Insurance Act 2015. 
With this in mind, I dont think UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in voiding Miss Ks 
policy, declining her claim and retaining the premiums. This is in line with the remedies 
outlined in the Insurance Act 2015, and this produces an outcome which is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman