DRN-3870068
The complaint
Mrs L complains about QIC Europe Ltds cash settlement offer in response to a claim made 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs L has home insurance underwritten by QIC which covers her home and its contents. In 
February 2022, Mrs L made a claim after a storm caused damage to her conservatory roof.
QIC sent loss adjusters to examine the damage. They then accepted the claim and asked 
contractors to quote for the work to repair the roof.
QICs contractors quoted a price of around £13,000 to carry out the work. However, they 
later told QIC it would be pointless to repair the roof without first repairing the frame of the 
conservatory, which they said had deteriorated with age.
Because their contractors werent willing to carry out the repairs to the roof, QIC offered 
Mrs L a cash settlement. The offer was at the same value as the price initially quoted by their 
contractors.
Mrs L sought her own quotes for the work. The cheapest of which was priced at £16,200 
(including VAT).
Mrs L complained to QIC. She thinks its unfair for them not to pay her the full cost  to her  
of getting the roof fixed.  
QIC responded to say they werent going to change their stance. Their view was that they 
were only obliged to pay what it would have cost them to have the repairs carried out.
Mrs L wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought QIC hadnt been fair or reasonable in their handling of the claim. She thought 
QIC should cash settle the claim at the cost to Mrs L of getting the roof fixed  and pay her 
£250 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
QIC disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case that the damage was caused by the storm  and that its 
therefore covered under the terms of the policy. QIC accepted the claim and accepted that 
they should pay for the repairs.
Theres no dispute either that the terms of the policy allow QIC to determine how the claim 
should be settled. They can carry out the repairs through their own contractors or they can 
cash settle the claim and leave it to Mrs K to sort out the repairs.
We take a very clear view on how cash settlements should be worked out. Ill explain what 
that view is and the reasons for it.
The purpose of an insurance policy is to indemnify the policyholder. Broadly, that means 
they should be put back in the position they were in prior to the insured event and the 
damage or loss it caused  or as close to that position as is practically possible.
If an insurer can do that  return the policyholder to the position they were in  by 
commissioning repairs or replacement themselves, but the policyholder insists on using a 
more expensive option, then it wouldnt be fair to ask the insurer to carry any costs over and 
above what they would have paid out themselves.
In essence, thats the policyholders decision. And if they want to take a different route to the 
perfectly acceptable one suggested by the insurer, they (the customer) should pick up the 
additional costs.
On the other hand, if the insurer decides for their own reasons to cash settle the claim, then 
they cant reasonably pay the policyholder only what the repairs or replacement would have 
cost them (the insurer) if the policyholder cant get the repairs or replacement at the same 
cost.
In that case, the insurer isnt properly indemnifying the policyholder, who wouldnt be able to 
put themselves back in the same position they were in before the insured event occurred, at 
least not without incurring additional costs.
In other words, its not reasonable to ask an insurer to pay a policyholders costs if the 
insurer is wiling and able to rectify the damage or loss themselves more cheaply.
In this case, Mrs L has found a number of contractors willing and able to replace her 
conservatory roof  at a minimum cost of £16,200 (including VAT).
QIC say they could get the work carried out for less  just short of £13,000. So, thats what 
theyre wiling to pay Mrs L.
However, they arent willing  their choice, albeit on the advice of their preferred contractor  
to back that up by actually having the work completed at that price.
If they were willing to do that, there would be no argument here. Mrs L would have to either 
agree to QICs contractor carrying out the work or pick up any additional costs (for her 
preferred contractor) herself.
However, thats not the case here. QIC arent willing to commission the work, so Mrs L is left 
with no option but to accept the best quote from elsewhere. And, unless QIC cover that cost, 
she has not been fully and properly indemnified by the policy. 
So, to put it as simply as I can, QIC have decided not to carry out the repairs. The cost 
quoted by their contractor is therefore not in play. And so, they must pay Mrs L what it would 
(reasonably) cost her to get the work done.
Its no surprise that Mrs L cant find anyone to carry out the work at the price originally 
quoted by QICs preferred contractor. Insurers can often obtain prices for building work that wouldnt be available to members of the public. Theres no suggestion her that Mrs L has 
unreasonably found the most expensive contractors in her area to quote for the work, for 
example.
I understand why QIC have taken the stance they have on this matter. Their contractor has 
said repairing the roof alone would be irresponsible, given their assessment of the state of 
the conservatorys framework.
First of all, that doesnt seem to be a universal opinion. The contractors Mrs L found appear 
to be wiling to repair the roof. Their quotes certainly dont include any repairs to the 
framework  which QIC might reasonably have said fall outside the scope of the settlement 
given that any issues with the framework appear to have been caused by wear and tear 
rather than the storm.
Furthermore, Mrs L may be intending to repair the framework at her own expense before the 
work on the roof is carried out. But thats a matter for her given that the damage to the 
framework isnt covered under the policy. 
And at no point have QIC offered to carry out the roof repairs (at the cost to them) if and 
when Mrs L has the framework repaired or strengthened.
In summary, QIC have not treated Mrs L fairly by offering only the notional cost to them of 
the repairs to her conservatory roof in cash settlement of the claim when they had no 
intention of carrying out those repairs themselves through their own contractor.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs L, QIC need to ensure that she is properly indemnified 
against the damage caused to her conservatory roof by the storm. That means paying her 
the amount she will have to pay to get the repairs carried out.
On the face of it, that means they should pay her £16,200  the lowest quote Mrs K could 
obtain.
That assumes the quote still stands. If it has now gone up in price due to inflation or the 
increasing cost of materials, QIC will need to cover the new costs (as long as they are from 
the same builder). It is, in essence, QICs fault that Mrs L didnt take up the quote when it 
was first offered.
There is one caveat to that. Its perfectly fair and reasonable for an insurer, when offering a 
cash settlement, to pay the VAT element of any estimate only when the customer provides 
proof that the work has been completed  usually in the form of an invoice or receipt which 
specifies the work done.
I have no doubt that Mrs L fully intends to get the work done as soon as possible, but as I 
say, QIC dont need to cover the VAT unless and until they have proof of the works 
completion by the contractor.
Our investigator said QIC should also pay compensation of £250 to Mrs K for her trouble and 
upset. I agree with that. It will always take time to resolve a claim  particularly where there 
is a dispute between the parties  but Mrs L has been without a useable conservatory now 
for the best part of a year. If QIC had settled this claim in the way Im satisfied they should have, the repairs would have 
been carried out some considerable time ago. In that time, Mrs L has had no use of her 
conservatory and has had water leaking into it through the roof. Shes also had the stress 
and worry of not knowing whether - and when  her claim would be properly settled. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
QIC Europe Ltd must:
on receipt of an updated estimate from Mrs Ls preferred contractor, pay a cash 
settlement to Mrs L equal to the total quoted cost less any VAT element;
on receipt of an invoice or other proof to show the repairs are completed, pay Mrs L 
the VAT element of the invoice; and
pay Mrs L £250 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman