DRN-2488653
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid them a cash refund of 
the premiums they paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs E bought an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy through a broker, which 
was insured by Great Lakes. They took out the policy on 13 January 2021, to cover any 
European trips of up to 35 days duration. The policy year started on 11 April 2020 and was 
due to end on 10 April 2021.
The policy cost Mr and Mrs E £163.32 for the basic level of annual multi-trip travel insurance 
cover. Their premium included a discount of £18.15.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs E got in touch with their broker to look into 
whether or not they could get a cash refund for their policy. They werent happy with the 
cancellation options the broker gave them on Great Lakes behalf and they asked to cancel 
their policy on 27 May 2020. 
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Mrs E a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered Mr and Mrs E 
three options:
The chance to get a pro-rata credit towards buying a 15-month travel insurance 
policy, for the price of 12 months;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred 12-month annual policy;
A UK-only annual policy, with the opportunity to upgrade the destination at a later 
date.
Mr and Mrs E werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes offer was fair. He didnt think the regulators rules 
required it to refund the premiums Mr and Mrs E had paid. And he didnt think Great Lakes 
terms and conditions entitled Mr and Mrs E to any refund either. He considered that Great 
Lakes had carried the risk of Mr and Mrs E making a claim between 11 April and 27 May 
2020. But he thought it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to pay them a pro-rata 
refund of premium from the date the policy was cancelled. And in the circumstances, he felt 
it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a credit voucher for the pro-rata amount. 
Mr and Mrs E disagreed. They said they were in the same situation as many of the brokers 
other customers and it would be good customer service if the broker gave them a full refund. 
They also said that broker hadnt told them that Covid-19 could be a risk when they bought 
the policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make clear that the broker of 
Mr and Mrs Es policy isnt responsible for the refund options theyve been offered. Thats the 
responsibility of Great Lakes. And I also wont be considering anything the broker did at the 
time the policy was sold. Thats because the broker is a separate, regulated financial 
business and Great Lakes isnt responsible for the way the broker sold the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs E, I think Great Lakes offer is fair. 
Ill explain why.
Industry rules and guidance 
As the investigator explained, the insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), has set out rules and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an 
insurance contract. These are contained in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts, like Mr and Mrs Es, have a cooling off period of 14 days 
for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is called the 
right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if they had done so, they wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the price 
they paid. 
The policy terms and conditions 
Mr and Mrs Es policy terms and conditions set out their cancellation rights under their 
contract with Great Lakes. These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period nopremium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs Es cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than the regulators rules require. However, as Mr and Mrs E bought their policy on 13 
January 2020 and didnt cancel it until 27 May 2020, it was clearly more than 14 days after 
they took it out. 
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Es contract with Great 
Lakes entitle them to any refund of premiums.  
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Covid-19 had a real impact on Mr and Mrs Es travel plans during the 
remainder of the policy year. So their need for this annual multi-trip policy changed because 
of circumstances which were outside of their control. So Ive considered whether it would be 
fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Es contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Es contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed because policy cover started on 11 April 2020.
This means that Great Lakes insured Mr and Mrs E from that date onwards for travelling on 
any number of trips of up to 35 days duration which they could have taken until the policy 
was cancelled on 27 May 2020. Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies 
work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips Mr and Mrs E may have taken. 
There may have been many trips or there may have been none, but Great Lakes was 
covering the risk of a claim while the policy was in force.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr and Mrs E for cancellation of any holidays which 
theyd booked and were due to take from 10 April 2020 until 27 May 2020. This means Mr 
and Mrs E would have been covered if theyd had to cancel any number of holidays because 
of any listed events insured under the policy. 
So Great Lakes covered the risk of Mr and Mrs E making a successful cancellation claim for 
any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays 
between 11 April and 27 May 2020. Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the 
insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So regardless of what Mr and Mrs Es cancellation rights 
were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered.
However, after 27 May 2020, as a result of Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under 
Mr and Mrs Es insurance policy for any holidays they had planned abroad or in the UK, 
either for cancellation or for any potential claims being made while they were away. 
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs E 
with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance 
policy from 27 May 2020.
How the refund should be paid 
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Mrs Es 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr and Mrs Es reasons for cancelling their policy, it was their choice to 
do so. They entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for Great 
Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a refund by 
way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date.    
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mr and Mrs E. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that 
voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs E a credit voucher for the pro-rata amount of £140.45. 
The voucher can be put towards a 15-month annual policy for the price of 12 months; a 12-
month annual policy with a deferred start date or a UK only annual policy. 
I do understand why Mr and Mrs E may not wish to use a voucher, especially given the 
uncertainty around future travel plans. But as Ive explained, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to find that Great Lakes should pay a cash refund. Having considered 
everything, I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are overly restrictive. This means 
I think the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances. 
The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip travel insurance policies. And Im 
satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs E unfairly or any differently to other 
customers in similar circumstances. The voucher value has been calculated based on Mr and Mrs Es unused period of basic 
travel insurance cover. The premium they paid for this policy was for a period of 365 days 
from 11 April 2020 to 10 April 2021. 
The value of the voucher which Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs E equates to the 
premiums equivalent to 319 unused days of cover from 27 May 2020 until the original end 
date of the insurance policy on 10 April 2021. 
This reflects the fact that Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy from 
the date the policy was cancelled. 
I think this fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be asking Great Lakes to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman