DRN-1555961
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Marq Millions Limited, trading as Arro Money (Arro), shouldnt 
have unblocked his bank account, after it blocked it because of his spending on gambling 
websites. 
Mr S is represented in this complaint by his father.  
What happened
Mr S set up an online current account with Arro in April 2019. On 18 May 2019 Arros 
compliance department emailed Mr S to tell him it was suspending his account while it 
reviewed his activity on it. It said the review could take up to five working days. 
Mr S emailed Arro on the same day and asked it to unlock the account as he would be 
receiving his salary into the account on 20 May 2019. Mr S told Arro at this point that he 
suffers from depression and anxiety. 
Arro agreed to remove the suspension from Mr Ss account on 20 May 2019. It said the 
account had been suspended because of no balance debit activity  meaning Mr S had 
tried to make payments from the account while it had a zero balance. Mr Ss salary was paid 
into the account on the same day.  
Arro contacted Mr S later on 20 May 2019 and said his account had been flagged by its 
operations department for review, as he is in breach of the account terms and conditions. 
This meant Mr Ss account was suspended again. Arro told Mr S that its terms and 
conditions say: we may close your account if you operate your account in a manner that 
could be classed as non-standard use of an account e.g. solely for gambling purposes.
Mr Ss father rang Arro on 20 May 2019 and explained that his son had a gambling addiction 
and it was his and his wifes practice to ring fence Mr Ss salary, which was usually paid into 
an account with another bank. Mr Ss father asked for the information to be noted so that the 
salary could be safeguarded. 
Mr S contacted Arro on 21 May 2019 and asked to be allowed to transfer his salary out of 
the account.
Arro contacted Mr S on 21 May 2019 and said there are continuing concerns about how the 
account was being managed and its compliance department instructed it to close the 
account with immediate effect. Arro said the account would be reopened for 48 hours to 
allow Mr S to remove any existing funds. It said this can be done by ATM withdrawal or 
faster payment out.
Mr S transferred the remaining money out of his account on 21 and 22 May 2019 by making 
a number of payments to a gambling website. 
Arro contacted Mr S on 22 May 2019 and said, again, that there were continuing concerns 
about his account and it would now be closing the account with immediate effect. It said any 
remaining funds would be returned to the account which have most recently credited the 
account. 
Mr S emailed Arro on 4 June 2019 and asked for his father to be added as a third party to 
his account so that his father could communicate on his behalf, as Mr S works during Arros 
opening hours. He also asked to change his email address. 
On 11 June 2019, Mr Ss father complained to Arro. He said Mr S told him his salary was 
inaccessible from the Arro account and he was told it would take eight to ten weeks to have 
it transferred back to his employer. He said Mr S tried to have the money transferred to a 
bank account he has with another bank, but he has been met with a brick wall. Mr Ss father 
asked for the money to be either deposited in the other bank account or to be returned to 
Mr Ss employer. He said Mr S has had to borrow money to cover costs, because he cant 
access his salary. 
Arro responded and said it wasnt able to deal with Mr Ss fathers complaint, as it can only 
discuss accounts with the named account holder. It said if Mr S was able to send it a signed 
declaration by post to confirm hes happy for it to discuss the case with his father, then it will 
do so. 
Arro responded to Mr Ss fathers complaint on 16 July 2019. It said it is now able to provide 
him with information on the account. It outlined the reasons the account was closed and said 
Mr S had transferred his full salary out to gambling websites and the account balance is 
zero. 
Mr Ss father complained again on 17 July 2019. He said Arro was fully aware Mr S had a 
gambling problem, indicated by his activity on the account on 18 May 2019. And he said he 
also gave them the full picture about Mr Ss mental health in his phone call on 20 May 2019. 
He said during this call he asked Arro to ring-fence the salary, as Mr S had moved it to Arro 
rather than going through the bank where he and his wife ring-fence it. He said Arro has 
failed in its duty of care and shouldnt have released his salary back to Mr S. Mr Ss father 
said that he and his wife covered Mr Ss monthly bills to stop further damage and the salary 
deposit of around £1,300 should be recovered to cover this. 
Mr Ss father complained on Mr Ss behalf to this service in August 2019. He said Mr S has 
documented mental health issues and a gambling addiction is part of that. He said he and 
his wife take steps each month to try and ensure Mr Ss salary is put into a holding account, 
from which they release money as and when Mr S needs it. Mr Ss father said he only 
became aware on 20 May 2019 that his son had diverted his salary to a different bank. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He concluded that Arro has a specific clause 
in their terms and conditions regarding gambling and they used this condition to close the 
account, which he said was fair. 
Mr S did not agree with the outcome and so this has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint
Its clear that when Mr Ss father first made this complaint to Arro, he thought his sons salary 
was being retained in the account by Arro. And, as a result he covered his sons costs for a month or so. But this isnt the case. Arro did not retain the money. Mr S withdrew it by 
making payments to gambling websites. And so the complaint is now about whether Arro 
acted responsibly when it reopened Mr Ss account after the first suspension. 
Its important to clarify here that although Mr Ss father lost out financially and experienced a 
good deal of inconvenience, not least of all because he covered his sons costs for a month, 
Mr Ss father is not a customer of Arros and so he is not eligible to make a complaint about 
Arro to this service in relation to any losses hes experienced. Mr Ss father can only make 
the complaint on his sons behalf and this service can only look at whether Arros actions 
had a detrimental effect on his son. 
Ive looked first of all at whether the various actions undertaken by Arro were in line with its 
own terms and conditions. 
When Arro first suspended Mr Ss account on 18 May 2019 it was because Mr S had tried to 
make payments from the account before he had deposited any money into it. The terms and 
conditions say that Mr S cant make a payment that would put his account into a negative 
balance. So when Mr S tried to make several payments while his account had a zero 
balance, Arros systems alerted it to this and it suspended the account while it looked into 
the account activity. And this was a reasonable course of action for it to take and was in line 
with its terms and conditions. 
Arro then agreed to allow the account to be unblocked when Mr S told it his salary was due 
on 20 May 2019. Again, Im satisfied this was a reasonable course of action. And while Mr S 
told Arro at this point that he had mental health and depression issues, he hadnt told it 
about his gambling addiction. 
Its important to note that although the payments Mr S was trying to make when the account 
had a zero balance were to gambling websites, at this stage it was the zero balance issue 
that alerted Arro to a problem with his account.  
It was when Mr S succeeded in making payments to gambling websites, so after his salary 
was deposited in the account on 20 May 2019, that Arro became aware that the only 
payments he was making out of the account were to gambling websites. And it again acted 
in line with its terms and conditions when it suspended and then closed his account because 
of this activity. 
Mr Ss father said he rang Arro on 20 May and explained that Mr S has a gambling addiction 
and asked for his sons salary to be safeguarded. So Ive looked at whether Arro should 
have acted on what Mr Ss father told it. But I think Arro acted reasonably when it decided 
not to take any action based on what Mr Ss father said during that phone call. While I 
appreciate that Mr Ss father is keen to do all he can to limit the impact of his sons gambling 
addiction, the information he passed on to Arrow isnt something it can take on board without 
Mr Ss giving his father authority to act on his behalf. And Mr S hadnt done that on 
20 May 2019. He was in regular contact with Arro, didnt mention his gambling addiction and 
didnt give authority for anyone to speak or act on his behalf. 
Mr S complained that Arro shouldnt have allowed him to remove his salary from the account 
after it became aware that he was using the account just for the purposes of gambling. He 
said it should have acted to safeguard his salary in some way. I can see that the account 
activity was flagged, the account was suspended and the decision was made to close it 
within a short space of time. So Im satisfied Arro took action swiftly when it realised, on 
20 May 2019, that the account was being used just for gambling. And Arro also didnt allow 
Mr S to get into debt with it because of the gambling activity. Whats happened here is that Mr S spent his own money on a legal activity. And I take the view that Arro had to allow Mr S 
to remove his own money from the account once it was flagged for closure. 
Mr S also complained about the length of time it took for Arro to add his father as a third 
party on the account, so that his father could act on his behalf. While there does seem to 
have been some toing and froing between Mr S and Arro while this was being set up, I can 
also see that the delay was partly caused when Arro carried out further checks when it 
thought Mr Ss signature on the photograph he submitted didnt match the signature it held 
for him. And I cant fault Arro for that. It is allowed to make its own decisions about what 
security checks to carry out and has an obligation to make sure its dealing with the correct 
consumer when contact is made with it. 
In any event, I cant see that there was any detriment caused to Mr S because of the time it 
took for his father to be added as a third party. I know that his father was keen for this to 
happen as soon as possible after the account closure, but I think its fair to say this was 
because Mr Ss father had been led to believe by Mr S that Arro had retained his salary, 
when this wasnt the case. While a delay might have led to it taking additional time for Mr Ss 
father becoming aware of exactly what had happened to his sons salary, this complaint is 
about the impact on Mr S and not his father. So, as I said, I cant see that there was any 
detriment here to Mr S. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman