DRN-2015481
The complaint
Ms A complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to pay the agreed interest on two accounts. 
What happened
In July 2014 Ms A opened two Classic Plus accounts with TSB. The accounts paid 5% 
interest when Ms A opened them, as long as the account holder paid in £500 and regularly 
checked their account statements and correspondence on TSBs online banking facility. 
In November 2019 Ms A logged into her account in branch and found TSB hadnt been 
paying interest at the agreed rate. Ms A complained and TSB responded on 27 November 
2019. TSB said that Ms A had stopped receiving interest as she hadnt met the requirement 
to check her correspondence and statements online. But TSB paid Ms A £204.60 as a 
gesture of goodwill. The payment covered one years interest across both Classic Plus 
accounts. 
Ms A referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought TSB had dealt with Ms As complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms A 
asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms A is upset. She expected to receive interest at 5% and has told us 
she thought the account terms had been met. But I need to take both parties cases into 
account when deciding how to resolve a complaint. 
TSBs account terms say that to receive 5% interest customers have to opt for paperless 
correspondence and regularly log into the online banking facility and review them. The terms 
also say that if it cancels the paperless arrangement it will stop paying interest. TSB stopped 
paying interest on Ms As accounts in August 2016 as she wasnt reviewing the 
correspondence in line with the account terms. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms A but Im satisfied the terms are clear and set out what account 
holders have to do to receive the agreed interest. Whilst I understand my decision will come 
as a disappointment to Ms A, I havent found anything to show TSB made a mistake or 
treated her unfairly when it stopped paying interest. 
TSB paid £204.60, a sum equivalent to one years interest, as a gesture of goodwill. As I 
havent been persuaded TSB made a mistake and Im satisfied it has dealt with Ms As 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman