DRN-3947646
The complaint
Mr H complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) have failed to refund over £11,000 he says he 
lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr H authorised the disputed payments he made to his crypto 
wallets from his Revolut account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to 
the scammers from his crypto wallets). The payments were requested using his 
legitimate security credentials provided by Revolut, and the starting position is that firms 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments 
to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr H from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For 
example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr H has lost over £11,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one large or out of character transaction. It was 
spread over five separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, most would not 
have appeared particularly unusual, such that they ought to have been regarded as 
suspicious.
However, I note that one of the payments Mr H made on 18 May 2022 required him to 
select the reason for the payment, to which he selected Safe account transfer. Revolut 
said it provided a warning in relation to this option. But this payment option ought 
reasonably to have put Revolut on notice that the payment being made might have been 
part of a scam, such that it should not have allowed it to go through unless it had been 
able to satisfy itself that the payment reason was selected in error. 
It isnt clear why Mr H chose the safe account option, as this wasnt the reason for his 
transfer (which was for an investment). However, I note that when Mr H reported the 
scam to Revolut, he said One transaction to my Revolut was flagged as a possible 
scam by my [other] bank and this guy instructed me how to circumvent the fraud team. 
Given this was all part of the same scam, it therefore seems likely he was being coached 
in what options to choose  as well as what to say  to each firm involved by the 
scammer. 
So, If Revolut had discussed the reason for the payment with Mr H, I dont think it would 
have likely had any further concerns that he was falling for a safe account scam, as that 
was not the nature of the payment he was making. And given Mr H was also being 
coached in what to say in order to circumvent fraud prevention teams, it doesnt seem 
likely that he wouldve been upfront and honest about what he was actually doing if 
Revolut had probed further. As a result, even though I think Revolut could have done 
more here, Im not persuaded it could have reasonably prevented the scam in these 
circumstances. 
Ive also considered whether Revolut did enough to try and recover the funds after the 
fraud was reported. However, there wouldnt have been any successful prospect of a 
chargeback for the debit card payments made to Binance, as Mr H would have received 
the services he paid for. In terms of the faster payments made to Skrill, there similarly 
would have been little prospect of these funds being recovered, given we know the 
money was swiftly transferred on to the scammer from the crypto wallet. Therefore, Im 
not persuaded Revolut could have reasonably done anything more to recover his funds 
in these circumstances either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr H, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in this case, I do not consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold Revolut liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman