DRN-1900854
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc dealt with a claim for 
personal injury made by a third party.
What happened
Mrs and Mr M held an insurance policy that was underwritten by RSA. Their policy included 
liability insurance.
At around 2 pm on 29 June 2018 Mrs and Mr Ms dog attacked a postal worker that Ill refer 
to as P in this decision. At the time of the incident Mrs and Mr M werent at home. Their 
friend, who Ill call S in this decision, was looking after their dog temporarily in their 
absence. 
S was walking Mrs and Mr Ms dog on a short lead up their property driveway when P said it 
jumped up and bit her as she walked up the driveway to deliver mail. Mrs and Mr M said P 
initially said she was uninjured. However, she later made a claim for personal injury stating 
she had sustained injuries during the incident. 
Mrs and Mr M said the police investigated what had happened. But, on 30 December 2018, 
they emailed to explain they werent taking any action because they didnt feel Mrs and Mr 
Ms dog was dangerous in accordance with the definition outlined within the Dangerous 
Dogs Act. So, they felt a prosecution wasnt in the public interests. 
Mrs and Mr M asked RSA to indemnify them against the claim P was making. RSA 
communicated with Ps solicitor and denied liability on Mrs and Mr Ms behalf. It explained 
they werent the keeper of their dog at the time of the incident. So, they werent responsible 
for their dogs behaviour or actions. 
RSA informed Ps solicitor that S was liable for Ps injuries as they were looking after Mrs 
and Mr Ms dog in their absence. It shared the details Mrs and Mr M had provided for S with 
Ps solicitors and advised that the claim should be pursed against S.
Mrs and Mr M complained that RSA had declined to cover the claim made by P under their 
policy. And they were unhappy S personal details had been shared with Ps solicitors. Mrs 
and Mr M also said theyd spent over 45 minutes on the phone when telephoning RSAs 
complaints line to discuss their concerns. 
When RSA responded to Mrs and Mr Ms complaint it explained it had acted correctly in 
denying liability as they werent in charge of their dog at the time of the incident. And it 
informed Mrs and Mr M that, as S was looking after their dog int their absence, they were 
liable for the dogs behaviour and actions instead.  
RSA also said it had been necessary to share S details with Ps solicitor in order to show 
that S had been responsible for the dog at the relevant time and that Mrs and Mr M werent 
therefore liable for the claim. RSA recognised the length of time Mrs and Mr M had spent on the phone had been excessive. And it therefore offered to compensate them £30 to 
recognise the poor service theyd experienced.
Being dissatisfied with RSAs response to their complaint Mrs and Mr M referred it to our 
service. They said RSA hadnt responded promptly or kept them up to date with the progress 
of Ps claim. And they said RSA hadnt provided a clear rationale as to why their policy didnt 
cover the claim brought by P.
Our investigator looked into what happened and, after assessing the evidence provided by 
Mrs and Mr M and RSA, didnt recommend upholding this complaint. Overall, they didnt 
think RSA had acted unfairly. They were persuaded that RSAs decision not to indemnify S 
was reasonable and in line with the terms of Mrs and Mr Ms policy. They also didnt think 
RSA had made an error in providing S details to Ps solicitors. And they thought the 
compensation RSA had paid Mrs and Mr M for the time theyd spent on the phone contacting 
its complaints line was reasonable. But Mrs and Mr M disagreed with our investigators view 
of their complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mrs and Mr M have gone to 
some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed points about their complaint. I 
want to assure them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope Mrs and Mr M will 
understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to 
concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint based on the concerns Mrs and Mr M 
referred to our service per their complaint form.
Im sorry to hear about what happened here. I realise this has had a big impact on Mrs and 
Mr M. And I can appreciate how distressing it must have been for RSA not to settle the claim 
P made as Mrs and Mr M wanted and expected. So, Ive carefully considered what 
happened and whether RSA made an error it needs to put right.
I think its important to make clear at the outset that RSA denied liability for Ps claim for 
personal injury on Mrs and Mr Ms behalf because their dog wasnt in their custody or control 
at the time P sustained injury. And its said it wont indemnify S for what happened under Mrs 
and Mr Ms policy.
Mrs and Mr M state that its irrelevant that S was looking after their dog in their absence at 
the time of the incident. But I dont agree because cover under their policy extends only to 
the following individuals: 
your family  you, or any of the following people, as long as they normally live with you: your 
husband, wife or partner, your children, your relatives, a partner, husband or wife of your 
children, your domestic employees.
S isnt a relative and doesnt live with Mrs and Mr M. Their policy doesnt extend to their 
friends, which means S isnt covered under the terms of their insurance policy. So, RSA isnt 
acting unreasonable or against the policy terms in declining to indemnify S here. It follows 
that I cant fairly ask RSA to cover something that is excluded from Mrs and Mr Ms policy  
as unfair as that may seem to them.Ill turn now to the second part of Mrs and Mr Ms complaint which is about RSA sharing S 
details with Ps solicitor. 
When Mrs and Mr M provided S details to RSA it was not their intention for S to be held 
responsible and pursued by P for personal injury. Its clear they also wanted S details to 
remain confidential. But RSA shared information about S with Ps solicitor and told it S was 
liable for what happened instead of Mrs and Mr M. 
I understand that this is bound to have led to difficult conversations between Mrs and Mr M 
and S and caused upset. But RSA has already explained why it was required to pass the 
information about S onto Ps solicitor. And, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied RSA acted 
in Mrs and Mr Ms best interests in providing S details to Ps solicitors. 
I appreciate why Mrs and Mr M feel that RSA breached data protection legislation in sharing 
information without their permission and knowledge. But Mrs and Mr M will need to refer this 
part of their complaint to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) should they wish to 
pursue this issue further. 
The ICO is better placed than this service to look at an organisations handling of personal 
data. Its not our role to decide whether a breach of data protection has taken place. So, I 
wont be commenting on this part of his complaint as this issue falls outside of our 
jurisdiction.
I can see Mrs and Mr M are unhappy about how RSA investigated and dealt with Ps claim. 
They feel RSA caused unnecessary delays and didnt keep them up to date. But, as our 
investigator explained, its reasonable to expect a claim of this nature to take time. The 
circumstances were complex and I can see RSA sought opinions from others about the 
appropriate approach to take here. 
Based on the information RSA has provided our service Im satisfied it regularly 
communicated with Mrs and Mr M and kept them updated as to the claim P was making. I 
also think it provided a clear rationale as to why it wasnt able to indemnify S under their 
policy.
I understand Mrs and Mr M are concerned RSA incorrectly advised Ps solicitor that they 
were abroad at the time of the incident. However, while this error may have upset Mrs and 
Mr M, it didnt affect RSAs decision to deny liability. I say this because whether Mrs and Mr 
M were abroad or in the UK at the time of the incident they still werent caring for their dog at 
the material time. So, they werent responsible for the personal injury P sustained.
I can see RSA made enquiries with the insurer that insures Mrs and Mr Ms dog in efforts to 
establish whether it could offer cover here. But that insurer informed RSA that its policy only 
covered the dogs healthcare requirements. So, cover for injuries caused by the dog is 
excluded. I think this enquiry demonstrates RSA was trying to assist Mrs and Mrs M.
Ill turn now to Mrs and Mr Ms concerns about the length of time they spent on the telephone 
with RSA when contacting its complaints line. RSA hasnt been able to listen to a copy of the 
call recording as it hasnt been able to locate it. This isnt unusual given the passage of time. 
However, in the absence of the call recording its taken Mrs and Mr Ms upset seriously and 
given them the benefit of the doubt as to what happened. I think thats a fair approach for it 
to take in the circumstances. 
RSA accepts the service Mrs and Mr M received over the telephone could have been better. 
And its apologised for the time they spent in contacting its complaints department. In recognition of the trouble and upset Mrs and Mr M were caused RSA has offered to pay 
them £30 compensation. Its clear Mrs and Mr M dont feel that fairly reflects their experience 
here. So, Ive carefully assessed whether the amount RSA offered is reasonable.
I acknowledge the inconvenience Mrs and Mr M experienced here. But Im satisfied that the 
£30 compensation RSAs already offered them fairly reflects the overall trouble and upset 
they would have been caused here. Its in line with awards made by this service in 
comparable circumstances and I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a 
higher award is warranted here. I therefore wont be asking RSA to increase its offer. As Mrs 
and Mr M rejected that offer RSA should now pay them the £30 compensation it offered to 
resolve this complaint.  
Finally, I understand that Court proceedings have now been issued against Mrs and Mr M. 
They say theyve had to incur the cost of appointing a solicitor to represent their interests. I 
appreciate theyre unhappy that RSA hasnt covered their legal fees. But thats a separate 
complaint that Mrs and Mr M will have to refer to RSA before our service can comment on it. 
I say this because this issue wasnt brought to our service as part of the original complaint 
Mrs and Mr M made. 
I realise Mrs and Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what 
we, in trying to resolve their dispute with RSA informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant 
help Mrs and Mr M any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Im aware that Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc has made an offer to pay £30 compensation. I conclude that such an offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc should pay Mrs and Mr M £30 to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman