DRN-4415861
The complaint
Mr K complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him two 
conditional sale agreements he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr K acquired a used car financed by an agreement from Moneybarn. Under 
the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr K undertook to make 59 
monthly payments of £299.33 making a total repayable of £17,660.47 at an APR of 19.9%.
In July 2022 Mr K settled this agreement having made every payment required of him under 
it between August 2020 and July 2022.
In July 2022 Mr K acquired a used car financed by an agreement from Moneybarn. 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr K undertook to make an 
advance payment of £500 followed by 59 monthly payments of £292.73 making a total 
repayable of £17,771.07 at an APR of 31.9%.
As of August 2023 Mr K had made every payment required of him under this agreement.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint and concluded it shouldnt be 
upheld. She said that as Mr K hadnt provided any information in support of his financial 
circumstances in July 2020 and July 2022 she couldnt reasonably conclude Moneybarn did 
anything wrong in approving either agreement. She also said that she had seen insufficient 
evidence to be able to conclude that Mr K was coerced into taking out the second agreement 
or that Moneybarn had failed to treat Mr K, in 2023, with anything other than forbearance. 
Mr K didnt agree and provided our service with a copy of his current credit score and details 
of two defaults and one arrangement to pay registered against him.
The investigator considered what Mr K said and submitted in response to her view but 
wasnt persuaded to change her mind. And because the investigator wasnt persuaded to 
change her mind Mr Ks complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects 
which impact my decision.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Finally, I would like to confirm that Im satisfied that both parties have had sufficient time to 
provide me with everything they want to and I see no good reason to delay the issue of this 
decision.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
For reasons Im satisfied I dont need to explain  in part because of what I go on to say
below  I dont think Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks. But, without further
information, I cant say that further checks by Moneybarn would, or should, have caused it to
decline either of Mr Ks applications.
Our investigator asked Mr K to supply a copy of his full credit file and copies of all his 
accounts for the period three months prior to July 2020 and July 2022 so she could try and 
establish what further (and proportionate) checks by Moneybarn might have uncovered 
about his income, expenditure and his circumstances more generally.
Unfortunately, Mr K hasnt provided this information. And without it I cant reasonably 
conclude that further (and proportionate) checks on the part of Moneybarn would have 
shown either agreement to be unaffordable. I accept that in response to the investigators 
view Mr K provided evidence of two defaults (April 2021 and July 2018) and one 
arrangement to pay (July 2020) registered against him. But this, in itself, isnt sufficient for 
me to be able to conclude that Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to Mr K, especially when 
consideration is given to the lending market in which Moneybarn operates.
For the sake of completeness I would also add that Im not persuaded that Mr K was 
coerced into taking out the second agreement. Like the investigator I cant say for certain 
what was discussed between Mr K and the dealership/broker, but ultimately Mr K signed this 
agreement and didnt exercise his cancelation rights in respect of it, an option that was open 
to him. 
Ive also seen insufficient evidence that would allow me to conclude that Moneybarn has 
treated Mr K, given his financial circumstances and his health, unfairly, unreasonably or 
without forbearance, although I would remind Moneybarn of its obligations in this respect 
going forward.
I understand my decision will be disappointing for Mr K. But given what I say above Im 
simply unable to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman