DRN-1679325
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss H says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays), who were trading at the time as 
Barclaycard, mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
Miss H has raised a number of complaint points. Ive read and considered all the evidence 
on the file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened given 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below. 
I think Barclays made it clear that Miss H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this, many years later. I say 
this because Ive been given a copy of the script the representative was supposed to follow 
at the time and I can see that the representative was supposed to only add the cover if they 
got the consumers agreement. I havent seen sufficient evidence to find that this guidance 
was not followed in this case. I have also considered that Miss H had held the credit since 
1998 before the PPI was added to her account. So I cannot see how Miss H would have 
thought she had to take the PPI in order to keep on using credit she already had. So, it 
seems most likely that Miss H would have known that she had a choice about taking the PPI 
or not. 
I have also considered that the statement dated 17 May 2004 shows that Miss H was paying 
for Payment Protection Plan. So if Miss H hadnt agreed to the cover at the time of the 
telephone call, then her statements ought to have alerted her that she was paying for 
something she cant now recall having agreed to at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think she would have, most likely, raised this as an issue with Barclays many years before 
she eventually chose to do. So, it seems most likely that Miss H wanted this sort of cover 
and would have known she had a choice about taking the PPI out or not. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss H, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, she was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. And Miss H seems to have had a need for the cover. Miss H told us 
she was not entitled to any sick pay from her employer, such that she may have had to rely 
on her modest savings. This policy couldve covered 10% of Miss Hs monthly balance for up 
to 12 months. So, I think Miss H couldve found this cover useful.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I think the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold 
by Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman