DRN-4160734
The complaint
Ms C complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money she lost when she 
was the victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
In mid-2022, Ms C was looking to purchase a buy-to-let property and met an estate agent on 
a social media platform. Ms C was interested in a property the estate agent recommended, 
so the estate agent introduced her to a second estate agent and they both showed her 
around a property. Ms C initially decided not to proceed, but then later agreed to buy the 
property and so paid a deposit of £2,000 from her Nationwide account to the bank details the 
second estate agent gave her for the property developer.
The next day, Ms C decided she didnt want to proceed with the purchase and so emailed 
both estate agents asking for her deposit to be returned. But the second estate agent 
responded, saying that the deposit was non-refundable. Ms C responded that the deposit 
form she had filled in didnt say the deposit was non-refundable, but the estate agent still 
refused to refund it. So Ms C reported the payment to Nationwide as a scam and asked it to 
refund the money she had lost.
Nationwide investigated but didnt think the evidence suggested there had been any 
fraudulent activity or that the payment Ms C made was the result of a scam. It said this was 
a private, civil dispute between Ms C and the estate agent or property developer about the 
return of her deposit, and didnt agree to refund the payment. Ms C wasnt satisfied with 
Nationwides response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought both the second estate agent 
and the property developer were likely operating as genuine businesses at the time, and so 
this was a civil dispute between them and Ms C  rather than a scam. So they didnt think 
Nationwide should be responsible for refunding the payment. Ms C disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Nationwide to refund the payment 
Ms C made. Ill explain why below.
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Ms C 
accepts she made the payment here. So while I recognise she now feels her deposit has not 
been refunded when it should have been, she did authorise the payment. And so the starting 
position in law is that Nationwide was obliged to follow her instructions and make the 
payment. So Ms C isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
There are certain activities banks are expected to carry out to try to protect their customers 
from falling victim to scams, and certain protections in place for customers who do fall victim 
to scams. But, before looking at whether Nationwide has done what wed expect it to do or 
whether these protections apply, I must first be satisfied that Ms C has been the victim of a 
scam.
Ms C has put forward a number of arguments for whys he feels she has been the victim of a 
scam, including about the definition of both a scam and a dispute. But the dictionary 
definitions of a scam or a dispute arent necessarily the correct test here. And, when looking 
at what we expect banks to do, I think the relevant test for whether this was a scam is 
whether the people she was dealing with set out with the intent to defraud Ms C out of her 
money.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Both the second estate agent, who sent Ms C the deposit form, and the property developer, 
who Ms C paid the deposit to, appear to be genuine companies. They are both registered on 
the governments register of limited companies, and both appear to carry out work related to 
the type of property purchase Ms C was trying to make. The people Ms C spoke to at the 
second estate agent also appear to be genuine employees of the company. And I think its 
unlikely these two genuine companies would be working together to set up a scam, 
particularly involving what, in comparison to common property transactions, would be a 
relatively small amount of money. So I think its likely this was a genuine property purchase, 
rather than a scam.
Ms C has sent us copies of the deposit forms she was sent. And I accept it appears that the 
second form she signed and returned does not mention that the deposit in non-refundable. 
But, even if the property developer were legally required to refund her deposit, I dont agree 
that this meets our definition of a scam. I still dont think the property developer set out with 
the intention of defrauding her  I think its more likely the property developer wanted to 
continue with her purchase of the property. I think this more closely matches what we would 
consider a private, civil dispute  which is where, for example, a customer has paid a 
legitimate supplier but is then dissatisfied with that supplier. And I dont think it would be fair 
to require Nationwide to refund money that is the subject of a private dispute between Ms C 
and the estate agent or property developer.
Ms C has said she asked the first estate agent whether the deposit was refundable, and was 
told it was. And I appreciate that she says she only went ahead on the condition that the 
deposit could be refunded, but I still dont think this meets our definition of a scam. Even if 
this first estate agent misled her about whether the deposit was refundable, I dont think the 
estate agents or the property developer set out with the intention of defrauding Ms C out of 
her money. I still think this was likely a genuine property purchase where the people she was 
dealing with intended to go through with the sale.
Ms C also says the estate agents misled her about the postcode of the property she was 
looking at, and about which floor in the building it was on. But, firstly, Ive not seen clear 
evidence that this was deliberate deception by the estate agents  rather than just a mistake 
or a change in what was being discussed. And, secondly, Ms C had the correct information 
about the post code and the floor before she made the payment  so the estate agents cant 
have been using the incorrect information to try to trick her into going ahead at that point.
Ms C has also mentioned that her solicitors details were added to the deposit form without 
their knowledge or consent, and that she should have been informed about the deposit being non-refundable in advance. But, while these might suggest the second estate agent or 
property developer were acting unprofessionally, I still dont think they suggest they set out 
with the intention of defrauding Ms C or that this was a scam.
I appreciate how Ms C feels about this case, but I must make a decision on what I think is 
most likely to have happened. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely 
the estate agents and property developer here were attempting to operate as legitimate 
businesses at the time. I dont think they set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud 
Ms C, or that she has been the victim of a scam here.
So I dont think the protections in place for victims of scams apply here, or that it would be to 
require Nationwide to refund the money Ms C has lost.
I sympathise with the position Ms C has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the estate agents or 
the property developer. And I understand shes said she will find it difficult to pursue the first 
estate agent or the property developer directly. But I can only look at Nationwides 
responsibilities and, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Nationwide responsible for the money she lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman