DRN-3903611
The complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) irresponsibly gave him a loan 
that he couldnt afford. 
What happened
On 11 September 2019, Mr F applied for a loan with NatWest. He was given a loan of 
£37,400 over 96 months and the monthly repayment was £504. 
In 2022, Mr F complained to NatWest to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint not to be upheld. Mr F didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Fs complaint is that NatWest made credit available that was unaffordable. NatWest has 
explained that it relied in part on information that Mr F provided at the time of application to 
assess affordability. They were entitled to rely on that information, but they also cross 
checked it with the credit passing into Mr Fs account. 
NatWest also said that they carried out a credit search in Mr Fs name to assess Mr Fs level 
of debt at that time and to understand how he had been managing that debt. The primary 
aim of the loan was to refinance an existing loan Mr F held with them for £28,371.13. Mr F 
Has told us that he also used some of the spare funds to repay some credit card debt. Mr F 
supplied some information about his expenditure and with some calculations of their own, 
NatWest thought there was unused income per month of over £1600. With that information 
and using their own scoring metric, NatWest decided to agree to the loan of £37,400. So, 
there was some assessment of affordability at the time of the sale.
Mr F told us the income was lower than he had told NatWest during the application for the 
credit. Even if the income was lower and in the region of what Mr F described, it would, I 
think, still have been sufficient to make the loan affordable. So even if NatWest had sought 
clarification of Mr Fs income through payslips, I do not believe that what they would have 
seen anything that would have made the loan seem unreasonable. 
The credit check that NatWest secured showed that Mr F s credit history was very clean at 
the time of the loan application. When I say this, I mean that Mr Fs management of his 
existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or bankruptcies. So, it seemed 
from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was made, Mr F was affording 
his existing credit. So, NatWest appeared to have little reason to make further enquiries 
into Mr Fs expenditure at that time based on the information it was provided by Mr F and 
that it had procured for itself. And so, NatWest were not put on notice of any reason not to 
agree the lending from that. 
In saying that, I have also noted that Mr Fs primary purpose in taking this loan was debt 
consolidation. The loan was primarily to refinance an existing loan. And Mr F told us he 
also used some of the loan money to repay some credit card borrowing. So, I dont see the 
lending decision NatWest made as evidence solely of new credit being provided by 
NatWest, adding to an already existing amount of personal borrowing. Instead, it would 
have appeared to NatWest that Mr F was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to 
manage his existing debt by taking out a loan and using it to secure more favourable terms 
to existing credit and making his existing borrowing more affordable. I say that because Mr 
F could have been saving money on interest he would have been paying elsewhere, had 
he used the loan for the reasons he has given us. So, it doesnt seem automatically 
unreasonable for NatWest to have facilitated that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, Im not persuaded that based 
on the information provided to NatWest, or what NatWest could see of Mr Fs management 
of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit NatWest provided to Mr F was unreasonable. 
I know that Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has invested 
time and energy in pursuing his complaint. But I want Mr F to know that I considered all the 
submissions made in this case. But having considered all the submissions in this case, 
particularly those concerning the time of the lending decision, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman