DRN-2595027
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with Gresham Insurance Company Limiteds (Gresham) handling 
of a claim they made under their buildings insurance policy. Any references to Gresham also 
relate to their agents.  
What happened
In September 2018, Mr and Mrs P logged a claim as their porch was showing signs of 
cracking. 
A claim for subsidence was accepted by Gresham and they appointed a loss adjuster who 
recommended a period of monitoring take place. In February 2019, an arborists report 
instructed by Gresham recommended a hedge owned by Mr and Mrs P be removed. They 
also noted the presence of a nearby tree located outside of the boundary of Mr and Mrs Ps 
home. In respect of the tree, they said removal and an appropriate stump treatment would 
help stabilise the property. However, the report noticed the tree recently had a heavy 
pruning. They said if movement of the property persisted, removal of the tree would be the 
best course of action to prevent further movement.  
A number of inspections were carried out at the property, both during and after the period of 
monitoring. Mr and Mrs P say theyve been given many different reasons for the cause of 
subsidence. In March 2020, a further inspection took place. Following this, the loss adjuster 
recommended steps be taken to tie the porch to the front of the main property. 
In May 2020 the loss adjuster said there were a variety of influences causing the movement 
of the porch. These included the discharge of rainwater from a downpipe that ran down the 
side of the porch. There was also seasonal movement and movement as a result of 
vegetation to consider. The loss adjuster came up with a proposal for the rainwater 
discharge to be diverted from the property. They said after this had been completed, they 
could then carry out a suitable repair of the damage to the porch. 
Mr and Mrs P complained about the handling of the claim. Gresham responded in March 
2020. It acknowledged the handling of the claim had fallen below the standard expected. 
They paid Mr and Mrs P £400 in recognition of four months of avoidable delays in 
progressing the claim. 
In September 2020, Mr and Mrs P arranged for their own independent engineer to inspect 
their property and provide their view on the proposed repair works. The structural engineer 
disagreed with Greshams proposed repairs to the porch. They agreed the downpipe by the 
porch area should be rerouted and also recommended a further period of monitoring be 
carried out. 
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to this service. Mr and Mrs P say theyre concerned 
Greshams decision to leave the tree in place means they might need to make a future claim. 
They say this might have a financial impact on them, and there may be a time where it 
impacts the marketability of their home. Our investigator said a further period of monitoring 
should be carried out after some works to the downpipe had been carried out. As Gresham 
didnt initially agree, this case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been a number of different reports and opinions on the cause of subsidence 
provided during the history of this claim. None of these have consistently identified a 
dominant cause of the subsidence affecting Mr and Mrs Ps home. Given the amount of time 
that has passed since they noticed the cracking to the porch, I can understand why they 
have found this matter frustrating. 
In February 2019, before the level monitoring started, the loss adjuster said theyd found 
roots under the porch from the tree owned by the Local Authority. This tree sits just outside 
the boundary of Mr and Mrs Ps home. Mr and Mrs P were told the claim had been confirmed 
as vegetation related clay shrinkage due to influence of the tree. A key point to note was, at 
that time, drainage wasnt implicated as being the dominant cause of subsidence. 
The period of monitoring led to Greshams conclusion that the property was continuing to 
move, albeit on a seasonal basis. However, in April 2020 an email to Mr and Mrs P from the 
loss adjuster said the dominant cause of subsidence was the tree. Shortly after this, in May 
2020, the loss adjuster said the dominant cause of damage was the downpipe. And any 
other movement was as a result of seasonal vegetation influence.
It is unfortunately the nature of subsidence claims that various reports and inspections may 
identify different dominant causes of subsidence, as has happened here. I can see why Mr 
and Mrs P feel they have been provided with conflicting information throughout the claim. 
Ive reviewed the reports and there have been several different reasons given as the cause. 
But none have consistently identified the dominant cause. 
Ive gone on to consider the evidence provided. However, having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of our investigator in that the evidence available doesnt conclusively 
demonstrate the tree is the dominant cause of subsidence. This being said, the evidence 
available also does not rule the tree out. 
I consider what is key is Mr and Mrs Ps structural engineer noting Gresham hadnt 
completed a full drying / wetting and then drying period of monitoring. Gresham disagreed 
with this comment, saying that the monitoring it carried out indicated there was some 
seasonal movement, but no signs of progressive movement. The monitoring was completed 
between February and October 2019. I consider, given the differing potential causes, 12 
months wouldve been a more appropriate period to fully understand any pattern of 
movement impacting a property. 
Without the monitoring being carried out until March 2020, it is impossible to know what the 
findings of a 12-month monitoring period would have been, or if it would have impacted any 
proposed remedy put forward by Gresham. However, against this Im balancing the 
monitoring readings obtained, which indicated there was very minimal movement for the 
period that was monitored. It follows, while I consider a longer period of monitoring should 
have taken place earlier, I cant be certain Mr and Mrs P have been disadvantaged by the 
shorter monitoring period.  
Mr and Mrs P complain their claim hasnt been investigated by Gresham in a timely manner. 
Im conscious there was a four-month delay which has been acknowledged by Gresham, and Ill come back to that later. I consider that the claim has potentially also been delayed by 
Greshams decision not to carry out a 12-month period of monitoring in the first instance. 
However, as Ive outlined above, I cant say, at this point, that Mr and Mrs Ps claim has 
been impacted by the shorter monitoring period as I dont know what the ultimate results of 
that would have been.
Its the very nature of subsidence complaints that they can be complex. There are a number 
of different factors that need to be considered before a claim can be accepted and the 
appropriate method of repairs identified. In considering the history of this claim, the primary 
reason it has taken so long to resolve  and it is yet some way from being finally resolved  
is because there is no clearly identified dominant cause of the subsidence. I dont agree with 
Mrs P that the information provided points solely to the tree as the dominant cause. 
I say this because both the loss adjuster and Mr and Mrs Ps structural engineer have 
identified the downpipe by the porch as a potential cause of the subsidence. I appreciate Mr 
and Mrs P might rely on the correspondence from the loss adjuster in 2019 stating the 
drainage was not impacting the property. However, Im more persuaded by the recent 
reports which are consistent in identifying that the downpipe should be rerouted to exclude it 
as a potentially dominant cause of the subsidence. I agree this should happen. 
Mr and Mrs P have also expressed concern the loss adjusters proposed repairs might have 
gone on to cause further damage to their house. I note they reached this conclusion having 
considered their structural engineers comments. The structural engineer didnt agree with 
the proposal by Gresham and identified his own set of repairs. However. I note neither repair 
has been carried out. This is because both Gresham and the structural engineer have both 
agreed the downpipe should be rerouted as a first cause of action.  
In summary, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator  which is that the most 
appropriate way forward would be for additional monitoring to be carried out. My rationale for 
concluding the additional monitoring after the downpipe is rerouted is that this should clearly 
identify if the property is still moving, and if the movement is progressive. If the moment is 
progressive with the hedge being removed and the downpipe rerouted, then it may be easier 
to identify the dominant cause of the subsidence.   
Mrs P says her structural engineer highlighted potential future problems if only the original 
scope of work was to be carried out. However, while I do understand Mrs Ps concerns, this 
service can only consider a complaint about something that has happened  not something 
that hasnt happened or might not happen. Thats not to say I dont understand her concerns. 
However the purpose of Mr and Mrs Ps buildings insurance policy is to provide cover for 
insured events that have occurred and are covered by the policy terms. However the policy 
is not intended to provide cover for events might not happen. 
Gresham have said theyll carry out monitoring for a period of up to 12 months, and it has 
started this. I consider this is a fair and reasonable course of action in the circumstances. At 
this stage, and for the reasons outlined, Im not going to say they need to do more.
Im conscious Mr and Mrs P have recently appointed builders to carry out some repairs to 
their property. To clarify, my finding in response to the complaint about Greshams handling 
of the claim is that it should continue a period of monitoring. If Mr and Mrs P consider any 
evidence uncovered during their building works will enable Gresham to identify the dominant 
cause of subsidence affecting their property sooner, I would expect Gresham to consider this 
in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Ill turn now to the compensation payment Gresham made. It paid Mr and Mrs P £400 in 
March 2020 in recognition of avoidable delays. Ive considered this payment in respect of Greshams handling of the entire claim. Having done so, Im satisfied this amount is fair and 
reasonable when considering both the avoidable delays and my finding Gresham should 
have carried out a longer period of monitoring sooner. 
Claims like this are stressful and challenging. However its not for the insurer to compensate 
for this in itself. However I consider the handling of the claim could and should have been 
better. Had it done so it would have relieved some of the worry and stress Mr and Mrs P 
experienced. Im satisfied the payment of £400 is a fair and reasonable compensation 
payment for Greshams shortcomings in the handling of the claim.
  
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I require Gresham Insurance Company Limited to carry 
out a further period of monitoring for 12 months, unless it becomes clear there is evidence of 
continuing movement before this. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman