DRN-2786424
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that UK Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Car Insurance 
(Privilege) have held Mrs B liable for an accident that she says wasnt her fault.      
    
What happened
Mrs B is a named driver on her husbands insurance policy. She was involved in an accident 
on 12 August 2019. 
Mrs B was travelling out of London on the A3 and exited at a roundabout. On the exit slip 
road she was in the left hand lane but intended to turn right onto an A road. The third-party 
car was in the right-hand lane on her inside.  As they travelled around the roundabout, Mrs B 
was in the left-hand lane and the third party was still on her inside. As they passed the 
second exit a collision occurred. 
The third-party claims that Mrs B changed lanes and collided into them, and Mrs B claims 
that the third party changed lanes and collided into her. 
On 14 July 2020 Privilege made decision to split liability. Mrs B disagreed with this and 
asked to proceed to court. 
As liability was in dispute, Privilege asked Mrs B to provide more details of the incident, 
including the exact location and the entry and exit points on the roundabout so they could 
establish the intended route and who was at fault. She drew an annotated diagram for 
Privilege. 
On 25 November 2020, Privilege wrote to Mrs B and advised that they would have to admit 
liability as it was clear from the information provided that Mrs B was in the incorrect lane for 
turning right, and the third party was in the correct lane. 
They examined information provided by Mrs B, together with data from Google maps and 
decided that their prospect of succeeding in defending liability was poor, as the maps show 
that in order to be turning right, Mrs B should have been in the right-hand lane. She was in 
the left-hand lane at the time of the incident. 
As there was little to no chance of succeeding, Privilege used their subrogated rights in the 
policy not to defend the claim. 
In their final response dated 29 December 2020, Privilege stood by their decision and held 
Mrs B liable for the accident.   
One of our investigators has looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and decided that Privilege 
have acted fairly in their administration of Mr and Mrs Bs claim.  
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, and I will explain why below. 
What I have to decide is whether Privilege have acted fairly and reasonably in their decision 
to accept liability on Mrs Bs behalf. I cant make a decision about liability myself, but I can 
consider how Privilege made their decision, whether they took account of all the available 
evidence, and whether their decision was fairly arrived at. 
I have carefully considered the statements provided by Mrs B, the case notes and 
information provided by Privilege and I have also viewed the scene of the accident on 
Google maps to gain an insight into where it took place. 
I can see that Privilege asked Mrs B for her account of what happened and have taken 
account of her drawing of the accident. They also clarified with her which direction she was 
intending to travel in. Mrs B told Privilege that she had intended to take a right hand turn at 
the roundabout. On her diagram Mrs B drew herself in the left-hand lane at the island, and 
she has drawn on the map that that the priorities for the left-hand lane were straight on and 
turning right. 
Privilege have viewed and taken screen shots of the slip road on which Mrs B exited the A 
road from Google maps. These shots show that the arrows painted on the road indicate that 
the left-hand lane is for turning left and going straight on. This is in direct conflict with Mrs Bs 
drawing and evidence about her understanding of the priorities. 
On the basis of that evidence Privilege have concluded that Mrs B was in the wrong lane for 
turning right at the roundabout, as she such, as she passed the second exit and continued 
on the roundabout to turn right, she would have entered the third partys lane and caused the 
collision. 
I think that, on balance, Privilege have made this decision fairly and reasonably. The 
evidence from Google maps is clear and unambiguous and is therefore strong evidence of 
the priorities. This is supported by Mrs Bs drawing which shows an incorrect understanding 
of the priorities at the roundabout. Mrs B has been given a fair opportunity to explain what 
happened, and her explanation of events has been properly considered in coming to a 
decision. 
Having taken the view that Mrs B was in the wrong lane, and therefore at fault, Privilege 
have used the subrogation clause in the policy to refuse Mrs Bs request to contest the 
liability. This policy term which allows Privilege to take over and settle the claim in Mrs Bs 
name. I find that in doing this, Privilege have acted in line with the terms of the policy and 
fairly.  
   
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B feel strongly about what happened, However, in this case I 
find that Privilege have made their decision fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
My decision is that UK Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Car Insurance do not need to 
do anything further.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman