DRN-3787473
The complaint
Miss G complains that Payoneer Payment Services (Uk) Limited wont refund payments that 
she says she didnt make from her account.
What happened
Miss G says that her account was hacked and that payments out of US$650, £250 and 
£2,000 on 5 March 2022 and £1,500 on 7 March 2022 werent made by her. She had raised 
this with Payoneer but not had a response.
Payoneer provided a business file to this service. It said that it wouldnt be refunding the 
money. It said that these payments hadnt followed any security breach and there was no 
evidence to support that the account had been hacked. While Miss G said that all her details 
had been changed on 5 March 2022, its records show that only the phone number that 
received one-time passcodes was changed. And this was done by entering a recovery code 
which was exclusive to Miss G. The payments were made after a log in from an IP address 
consistently used before for genuine access and payments from the account. Payoneer said 
that it thought that the payments were authorised. The other alternative was that Miss G 
hadnt kept her personal security details safe and which she was expected to do.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Payoneer had 
provided supporting system records. There had been no change to the email address or 
password on the account before the payments were made. And so, the person making them 
had this information. And Miss G had said she stored these details on her phone. The 
recovery code had been set when the account was registered. And there was no explanation 
of how someone had discovered this and nor of any remote access to any device. 
Miss G is represented in this complaint and wanted a review. All the codes sent were known 
to Payoneer too and so this was a one-sided assessment as these might have been leaked 
by them. Miss G and her representative wouldnt have gone to all the trouble of getting the 
account reinstated if it hadnt been hacked. And Payoneer should look into the accounts 
were the money was transferred and check the IP addresses at the time. A thorough 
investigation was needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated with security information. And if they werent authorised 
Miss G wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the security information used 
for these payments?
- Did Miss G authorise the payments on the account which could have involved allowing 
someone else to have access.
Im satisfied that the payments made out from Miss Gs account were authenticated. These 
followed a log on to her account and the receipt and then input of a one-time passcode sent 
by text each time. There were some smaller currency changes that have also been disputed 
but these werent sent from the account. The payments out created the loss Miss G seeks 
to recover.
The issue is whether those payments were consented to. Her representative asks about the 
IP address and I can see from the information that the one consistently used for these 
payments was one that Miss G had used before for genuine access. I also can see 
evidence of a log in from a device during 5 March 2022 that had been used before and 
again at the same IP address.
Our investigator has set out the position regarding the security information. The password 
and email associated with the account werent changed until after these payments. And 
Payoneer had shown evidence that email confirmation of the change of mobile number and 
the payment of £2,000 on 5 March 2022 was sent to the email address for Miss G.
The recovery code was something Miss G was sent at the time she registered. While I 
appreciate that this was sent by Payoneer, theres no evidence to support that being given 
to anyone else. Or to support that Miss Gs account was hacked. I do appreciate that an 
alternative of changing the phone number would be by getting a text code to the old phone. 
But Im clear from the information provided by Payoneer and its website that this isnt the 
only way.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
Miss G is clear that she kept her information safe and didnt give this to anyone else. So, 
having balanced all the factors I think that the most likely explanation is that she consented 
to these payments being made and so authorised them.
I wouldnt expect Payoneer to look into the accounts where the money was sent especially 
given it believed the payments were authorised. That would be something for the relevant 
authorities to consider if Miss G reported the matter. I think Payoneer acted reasonably in 
holding her responsible for the payments. I know she will be very disappointed by this 
outcome given the amount of money at stake for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman