DRN-3281466
The complaint
Mr M complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral), who declined his 
claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M dropped his laptop on a tiled floor in his home. Following this, Mr M said that the laptop 
couldnt power on. He contacted Admiral who arranged for the laptop to be examined by its 
engineer. 
The engineer reported to Admiral that the cause of the laptop not working was due to wear 
and tear as the motherboard had failed to power on. He also noted that the age of the laptop 
meant that it couldnt be repaired. And recommended that the claim should be declined.  
Admiral followed the recommendation of its engineer and declined Mr Ms claim. Unhappy 
with this, Mr M obtained two reports from the laptops manufacturer (LM). It found that there 
was no external damage to the laptop except some minor cosmetic damage in line with the 
laptops age. It also found that there was no internal damage due to wear and tear.
Mr M provided the reports to Admiral for consideration. Admiral didnt change the decision 
and the claim remained declined. Mr M referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. His 
view was that Admiral had fairly declined the claim as he was persuaded that the fault with 
the laptop was due to wear and tear, which wasnt covered under the policy. He concluded 
that the LMs reports werent enough to overturn Admirals decision to decline the claim. 
Admiral accepted the view, Mr M did not. Mr M reiterated that the LMs report made it clear 
that wear and tear was not the reason for the fault. So, he asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 10 January 2022. In my provisional decision I thought that Mr M had 
shown that damage wasnt due to wear and tear. But was due to damage to the main logic 
board, cable, and connectors, because of impact. So, I thought that Admiral were unfair to 
decline the claim. I asked both parties to provide me anything else they wished me to 
consider by 7 February 2022 (or earlier). In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint, which I will explain why I think this is 
fair.
Mr M had a home insurance policy that included insurance cover for the laptop. The main 
issue here is that following a claim for a damaged laptop, Admiral declined the claim as it 
deemed the damage was caused by wear and tear. Mr M maintains that wear and tear 
wasnt the issue with the laptop, and he has provided reports from the LM in support. 
Mr M has now provided updated reports from the LM who examined the device and in 
particular further considered questions around what were the minimal system and hardware 
damages found internally. It found that:
Advised minimal system would refer to the systems Main Logic Board had all of its 
connections removed from it and only power being applied to see if the MLB will power up 
(POST). Damage was identified on the IO cable and MLB connector that connects to the IO 
cable. A black mark is visible when viewed inside on these parts.
Cosmetic Condition: Damaged internally, marks to enclosure
This additional report was sent to Admiral for comments. Admiral did not respond. This 
report (as well as the initial reports) make it clear that there was internal damage to the 
laptop, and I think concludes that wear and tear were not the cause of the damage. 
The LM also said that there was minimal external damage to the laptop. Mr M confirmed that 
he had a shockproof case and Admiral accept that there was a case that covered the device. 
Mr M said that the purpose of the case was to provide extra protection to the exterior of the 
laptop and that minimal damage would be caused to the exterior of the laptop, as the case 
would be doing its job, which would be to provide protection in the event of impact. 
Both reports from the LM mention that there was minimal damage to the exterior of the 
laptop and I am persuaded that there was minimal damage to the exterior of the laptop as 
there was a shockproof cover on its exterior, which wouldve protected the laptop. 
I have next considered the issue of wear and tear. Admiral said that: the main motherboard 
had failed due to wear and tear. 
Mr M via the LM said that the damage was confirmed as follows: Internal check shows signs 
of cracks or physical breaks, and no sign of internal wear and tear, at this point knowing the 
main logic board has encountered significant impact this may explain why the machine will 
not turn on. No other signs of why this could have occurred. 
In view of the above evidence, I find it was more than likely that the damage wasnt due to 
wear and tear and was due to damage to the main logic board by damage to the cable and 
connectors, as a result of impact. So, I think that Admiral were unfair to decline the claim. 
Both Admiral and Mr M said that given the age and timeline, the parts that had been 
available to repair the laptop are no longer available. Accordingly, to put matters right, I 
intend to ask Admiral to either replace the laptop with a suitable alternative or the cash 
equivalent, up to the policy limit, less any excess. 
Responses to my provisional decisionMr M said that he accepted my provisional decision. But he expressed worry at the way this 
claim was recorded on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) and how this could affect 
his premiums going forward. 
Admiral said that: 
Mr M didnt initially advise that his laptop had a case.
Its engineers said that the reports from the LM were exaggerated and was only 
based on a visual inspection rather than a comprehensive inspection of the internal 
parts. 
The exterior of the laptop is made of aluminum and Admiral said that it would have 
expected some form of damage to the exterior of the laptop had the impact been 
enough to cause damage to the internal workings of the laptop. The engineers also 
confirmed that had the mother board suffered significant impact, they wouldve noted 
it, but none was seen.
Given the age of the laptop, it failed due to wear and tear. 
I have further reviewed the evidence given the responses received. 
Admiral said that Mr M didnt initially advise that the laptop had a case. It said that this 
information came from the initial call. However there doesnt appear to be an initial call as Mr 
M initially submitted his claim online and then had a webchat with an advisor, who confirmed 
that documents had been received. 
I accept that there was a call made by Mr M, sometime later, chasing Admiral for the 
outcome of his claim. I have read the call notes in relation to this.  And in that call, there is 
mention of the casing on the laptop not being damaged. There is mention of the 
motherboard failing due to wear and tear. Mr M in a later call gives the reason for the lack of 
damage to the exterior as due to the laptop having a shockproof case. But I can find no 
evidence to support it was Admiral who initially mentioned a case. Further, the LM indicated 
in their report that the laptop lived in a case since purchase. So, I think Mr M has been 
clear, consistent, and persuasive on this point. 
Admiral said that its engineers believed that the LM had only conducted a visual inspection 
of the laptop and not comprehensively carried out an inspection of internal parts. I have been 
provided with three reports from the LM (which Admiral have had sight of). These reports all 
mention that the laptop had internal checks and hardware damages were found internally. 
So, Im satisfied that internal checks were carried out on the laptop and the checks were not 
limited to visual inspections. 
As to Admirals third point that the engineers found no damage to the mother board and that 
they wouldve expected damage to the exterior of the laptop. All the reports from the LM 
confirm that damage was seen to the main logic board (the mother board) as well as to cable 
and connectors. I am persuaded by this evidence given that internal checks were conducted 
and the LM are experts and I think are better placed to provide evidence on their own 
products. Further, as Im satisfied that there was a shockproof case covering the exterior of 
the laptop, Im persuaded that there was minimal damage to that exterior given it was 
covered by a shockproof cover, which wouldve protected the laptop.
Finally, Admiral said that wear and tear were the cause of the failure of the laptop rather than 
impact damage. But, all the reports from the LM conclude that wear and tear wasnt the 
cause of the failure of the laptop: no signs of internal, wear and tear, at this point knowing 
the main logic board has encountered significant impact this may explain why the machine 
wont turn on. No other signs of why this could have occurred.In view of the above evidence, I find it was more than likely that the damage wasnt due to 
wear and tear and was due to damage to the main logic board by damage to the cable and 
connectors, as a result of impact. So, I think that Admiral were unfair to decline the claim. 
Both Admiral and Mr M said that given the age and timeline, the parts that had been 
available to repair the laptop are no longer available. Accordingly, to put matters right, I 
intend to ask Admiral to either replace the laptop with a suitable alternative or the cash 
equivalent, up to the policy limit, less any excess. I also think that Admiral should now 
amend the CUE to accurately reflect the details of this claim.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited, as below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
To put matters right, I intend to ask Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to replace the 
laptop with a suitable alternative or cash equivalent, less any excess. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to amend the CUE to accurately reflect the details of 
the claim. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the above within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman