DRN-3773593
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the level of costs Southern Rock Insurance Company is looking 
to recover from him under the terms of the Road Traffic Act (RTA) when it paid third party 
costs under a claim against his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr F was involved in an incident which he was found to be at fault for. He 
didnt buy cover under the policy to use his vehicle to commute to and from work. However, 
when he reported the incident he told Southern Rock the incident happened while he was 
driving home from work. 
Based on what Mr F told Southern Rock, it said it wouldnt provide cover for the claim as he 
was using his car outside of the terms of the policy. As the insurer at the time of the incident, 
Southern Rock was obligated to meet the costs of the third party claim under the Road 
Traffic Act - so that a non-fault party isnt left without any recourse for their losses. 
In line with the policy terms, Southern Rock was entitled to recover any claim costs it paid to 
a third party directly from Mr F in these circumstances. 
In August 2020 Southern Rock wrote to Mr F to tell him he owed it a final balance which 
Southern Rock had paid to settle the third party claim. Mr F was unhappy with the amount 
and wasnt satisfied Southern Rock had proved the amount it requested from Mr F was the 
same as what it had paid to settle the claim.
Southern Rock didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint and said he correctly owed the amount it was 
looking to recover from him. 
Mr F remained unhappy and asked us to look at things for him. 
Our Investigator was satisfied that the amount Southern Rock was asking Mr F to pay was 
the same as it had paid for the third party claim. 
Mr F didnt agree and so he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied from reading Mr Fs Certificate of Insurance that he was not covered for 
commuting - and so it was reasonable for Southern Rock to rely on Mr Fs account that he 
was driving home from work when the incident occurred - as the reason why it didnt provide 
indemnity to Mr F for the claim costs it was liable for. 
Mr Fs policy with Southern Rock has a very common term which Ive seen in most - if not all 
motor insurance policies. Southern Rock says:
We as your insurer, shall be entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any 
claim and to instruct the solicitors of Our choice to act for You in any proceedings. In 
circumstances where it is considered appropriate, we will be entitled to admit liability, 
for the costs covered under this Policy, on behalf of You or any person claiming 
Indemnity under the Policy. Such admissions may be made prior to or after the 
commencement of proceedings in relation to any event likely to give rise to a claim 
under the Policy.
It also says:
Right of recovery  If under the laws of any country in which this insurance applies, 
We have to make payments which but for those laws would not be covered by this 
Policy, You must repay the amounts to Us. If any claims or other monies are paid to 
You by mistake for any reason, or a claim has been paid which We later find to be 
fraudulent, false or exaggerated, You must repay the amount paid by Us.  
You or the person who caused the accident must also repay Us any money We have 
to pay because of any agreement We have with the Motor Insurers Bureau. 
Any payment We make under this condition will prejudice Your No Claim Bonus and 
will also mean that there will be no entitlement to a refund of premium if the Policy is 
cancelled or declared void.
Southern Rock has provided reasonable evidence to show it challenged some of the third 
party costs and paid the amounts which it is looking to recover from Mr F. Redacted 
evidence of the payment amounts have been provided to Mr F to comply with data protection 
laws. 
I understand Mr F is unhappy about the level of costs and isnt satisfied with the evidence 
provided to him - he believes Southern Rock hasnt provided adequate proof it paid the third 
party claim costs it is seeking from him. But Im satisfied Southern Rock reasonably settled 
the third party claim. And so this means its entitled to look to recover those claim costs from 
Mr F in line with the policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman