DRN-3734029
The complaint
Mr R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him the money he lost when he fell victim 
to a purchase scam.
What happened
Both sides are aware of the circumstances of the complaint. But I will begin by briefly 
summarising what happened.
Mr R holds a current account with Monzo. At the time of the scam, he was 20 years old and 
had recently started higher education.
Mr R saw an advert on a social media site for a clothing reseller. He recalls the account had 
a large number of followers and appeared to have reviews from customers. The seller also 
had a separate website linked from the social media page. 
Mr R explains he was reassured by the information he saw on both the social media site and 
the website. He explains he thought he was dealing with a business, which he believed 
would give him protection if something wasnt right.
Mr R contacted the seller and after some discussion about the items he wanted, he ordered 
two pairs of trainers and some clothing from the seller. The seller accepted bank transfers, 
so Mr R sent two payments that evening for a total of £575. These were made by Faster 
Payments transfer from his Monzo account. The bank account Mr R was paying didnt 
support the system to confirm the payees name, so it wasnt possible for Monzo to confirm if 
the account matched the sellers name or if it was a business account.
The seller sent a tracking number, but Mr R realised it didnt work. The seller blocked contact 
and the items failed to arrive. Mr R realised that the seller had not been legitimate and 
contacted Monzo to report hed been the victim of a scam.
Monzo tried to recover the money Mr R had sent, but none remained. 
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from 
Authorised Push Payment scams (APP scams) such as this one. Monzo accepted this had 
been an APP scam. But it said it wouldnt refund Mr R because it didnt think hed taken 
enough steps to check he was paying a legitimate seller. 
Mr R didnt agree and he referred a complaint about the outcome to this service for review. 
Our Investigator looked at what had happened and thought Monzo should refund him. 
Monzo didnt think the Investigator had reached a fair outcome. It said the website hadnt 
been particularly sophisticated, it reiterated that it didnt think Mr R had acted reasonably. In 
light of this disagreement, I have been asked to make a final decision on the outcome of 
Mr Rs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr R 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr R 
lost.
The money was sent from Mr Rs current account. It is not clear how Mr R would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. But if 
Monzo had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Mr R would 
not have been deprived of it for the time he has. So, Monzo should also pay interest 
on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest should 
apply from the date Monzo first declined to refund Mr R, to the date of settlement.
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Mr R made these payments without a 
reasonable basis for believing that he was paying a legitimate seller for a legitimate item. I 
consider the steps he took were proportionate in the circumstances and given his knowledge 
and circumstances at the time. I will go on to explain why I have reached this finding.
Ive taken into account the evidence provided by both sides. Under the terms of the CRM 
Code, the victim of an APP scam such as this should reimbursed unless the bank is able to 
establish that one (or more) of the exceptions to reimbursement can be applied.
Monzo essentially argues that Mr R relied on evidence that didnt prove the seller was 
genuine and that he was unreasonable to do so. Monzo notes that a social media presence 
doesnt prove the legitimacy of the seller. It also says the website he saw was built using a 
website building tool, so didnt prove the sellers legitimacy either.
But while none of the evidence Mr R saw could have provided conclusive proof that the 
seller was legitimate, that is not the test required under the CRM Code. Mr R merely 
required a reasonable basis for believing this was legitimate, in all the circumstances. 
The CRM Code highlights that those circumstances include the characteristics of the 
customer and the sophistication of the scam. Importantly, the test under the CRM Code is 
not simply that of reasonableness, it requires these specifics to be taken into consideration. 
Ive thought about what Mr R has said, and why he thought he was dealing with a genuine 
reselling business. Monzo argues that the website hed seen was built using a generic 
website building tool and this shouldnt have reassured him. The website is no longer 
available for me to review. But it is not clear to me that Monzos concerns would have been 
readily apparent to Mr R at the time. Based on my own research I believe legitimate retailers 
use off the shelf web design templates  companies exist to provide this specific service. So 
the use of a templated website format does not seem to me as clear a sign of risk as Monzo 
suggests Mr R ought to have identified from it. Further, I do not expect Mr R to have the 
same level of fraud expertise as the bank - and it is specifically Mr Rs characteristics I need 
to bear in mind when assessing his claim under the CRM Code.
Having reviewed everything submitted by both sides including the contemporaneous 
messages and information Mr R saw, Im persuaded by Mr Rs testimony that he found the 
sellers web presence convincing and that he believed it showed he was dealing with a 
legitimate reselling business. Based on what I have seen I dont think it was unreasonable 
for him to have drawn that conclusion at the time he was making these payments. So, while it is now clear that what he saw was false and designed to deceive him, Im not 
persuaded Monzo has been able to demonstrate that this was apparent to Mr R at the 
relevant time. Besides the social media presence, the seller had created a fake ecommerce 
website and engaged in discussion with Mr R about what he was buying before he made the 
payments. Taking everything into account I think on balance Mr R wasnt unreasonable to 
have been persuaded by what he saw in these circumstances.
In reaching that finding, I have taken into account that the price charged was significantly 
lower than the typical resale value of the items at that time, and furthermore that I consider 
that Mr R knew this was the case. 
However, I dont consider that, in itself, demonstrates that he was careless in proceeding 
with the attempted purchases. Based on my own research, the items in question had been 
sold as in stock within 12 months of the date of the scam and at a comparable price to that 
they were now being offered at. I dont think Mr Rs explanation that he thought this was due 
to the items being old stock that the seller was disposing of was necessarily an 
unreasonable supposition for a lay-person such as Mr R to have made, nor that this 
demonstrates he was making the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing in 
the legitimacy of the offer.
The provider of the recipient account did not participate in the Confirmation of Payee 
scheme, so while Mr R thought he was paying a business account, Monzo was unable to 
obtain the recipient account information to confirm or deny that fact. However, this was an 
absence of confirmation, not a negative result. Sending money to that destination would 
have yielded the same result had it instead turned out that Mr R was paying a legitimate 
seller holding an account with the same institution. 
While Mr R put a degree of trust in the seller and the website and social media evidence as 
a reason to believe all was as it seemed, it was open to Monzo to have alerted him to the 
risk - at the time he was making the payments - and to suggest appropriate additional steps 
he could have taken to protect himself. As an obvious example, Monzo could have 
recommended making payment by card rather than a bank transfer. 
Im satisfied that the CRM Code didnt require Monzo to take such steps in relation to these 
payments, but the point here is that, by not providing Mr R with such advice, I dont think 
Monzo can then safely assume that Mr R would have known what steps to take. In the 
circumstances here I dont think it is fair or reasonable for Monzo to seek to blame Mr R for 
not taking the steps it thinks he should have, where it has not established he knew of these 
precautions at the time. Monzo was the expert in fraud and scams in this situation, not Mr R, 
and it is Mr Rs characteristics, not those of Monzo, which are relevant under the terms of 
the CRM Code.
Considered as a whole and thinking about all of the circumstances of the transaction here, 
Im satisfied that Mr R did enough given the purchases he was attempting to carry out. While 
Monzo argues that there were aspects that should have concerned Mr R, I am not convinced 
it has established Mr R would reasonably have identified these at the time, nor am I 
persuaded that it has established he would have known what he could have done to better 
protect himself and simply failed to do so.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr A made the payment with a reasonable basis for believing 
this was a genuine seller and genuine items. It follows that I am not satisfied Monzo has 
established that it can fairly rely on the relevant exception to reimbursement under the CRM 
Code.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr R:
The money he lost through this scam, being the sum of £575 less any sums already 
reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the bank 
originally declined Mr Rs claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman