DRN-3885366
The complaint
Mr D has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) settled a 
claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D contacted RSA when a glass pane in his conservatory roof cracked. RSA accepted the 
claim and agreed to cover the damage to that pane. However, it said it couldnt do the work 
because the roof needed further work due to issues unrelated to the claim. Once the excess 
was deducted, RSA offered Mr D a settlement of £57.29.
When Mr D complained to RSA, it maintained its settlement offer. So, Mr D complained to 
this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said RSA should pay for all of the 
glass panes to be replaced, as paying for only one panel didnt put Mr D back in the position 
he was in before the claim. He also said RSA should pay £100 compensation.
As RSA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 14 December 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
A glass pane on Mr Ds roof was damaged when it was hit by a stone. RSA accepted the 
claim for this panel and agreed to replace it. Due to concerns about the structure of the 
conservatory and this roof, RSA decided it couldnt do the work itself. It calculated a 
settlement figure, which was £257.29. The £200 excess needed to be deducted from this 
amount, so it offered Mr D £57.29 to settle the claim. Mr D thought RSA was unfair in its 
offer and that it should cover more of the costs for the roof.
Ive looked at what RSA found when it inspected the roof. This included it taking photos of 
the conservatory, which showed cracks across the other panes of glass. Its report said:
Due to the condition of the structure replacing the unit will not be possible, the other three 
units have cracked due to movement of the structure. The brickwork is pulling away from the 
house, flashband used to seal the edges of both the tiled and glazed sections is pealing 
away, flashband has also been used along all of the glazing bars suggesting the movement 
has caused leaks.
I also note that when Mr D complained to this service, he said there were already cracks to 
the other panes of glass and that he had previously tried to carry out minor repairs on them 
himself. So, from what Ive currently seen, the other panes of glass were already damaged 
and didnt form part of this claim. 
Ive thought about whether RSA should do more than it offered in settlement due to the 
issues it identified with carrying out the work itself. Having done so, I dont currently think it 
needs to contribute towards any of the other work. RSA identified issues with the overall 
structure of the conservatory, but this was pre-existing and wasnt the result of the stone 
hitting the glass pane. There was also pre-existing damage to the other panes of glass. In 
the circumstances, I think it was reasonable that RSA decided the most appropriate way to 
settle the claim was to offer a cash settlement, as it wasnt possible for it to do the work.
Ive also thought about the settlement amount offered. Im aware Mr D provided a quote to 
RSA for work to the roof. This seemed to include more extensive work on the roof and also 
used different materials by replacing the glass with polycarbonate. I wouldnt expect RSA to 
cover the majority of these costs as it included work that didnt form part of the claim. 
However, I asked RSA to check the amount it had offered included all of the costs and was 
an amount that would allow Mr D to get the work done himself, given RSA said it couldnt do 
the work. RSA checked the figures and said it had incorrectly calculated it. The revised 
figure was £920.20, which covered the cost of the glass itself, removing and refitting the 
pane and a height work surcharge. So, I currently think RSA should pay this amount in 
settlement. This figure doesnt include VAT, so RSA should either pay this when it makes the 
settlement or if it requires proof that VAT was paid, it should pay the VAT element when Mr 
D provides evidence of VAT costs. I also currently intend to require RSA to pay interest on 
the cash settlement as Mr D lost use of the money. Im aware there is an excess to pay on 
the policy, which RSA might need to deduct from the settlement amount if it hasnt already 
taken it.
Ive also thought about compensation. I can see that Mr D has been caused distress and 
inconvenience by the way his claim has been handled, including that RSA incorrectly 
calculated the cash settlement. So, I currently intend to say RSA should pay £100 
compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 11 January 2023. Both parties replied before that date and agreed with my decision. RSA 
confirmed that following my provisional decision, it had paid the settlement and would pay 
the VAT element if Mr D provided evidence of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I havent found any reason to change my view on this complaint or how 
it should be resolved.
Although RSA has confirmed it has made the payment, this final decision still includes the 
full details of how I think the complaint should be settled to ensure this is clear.
Putting things right
RSA should pay a cash settlement of £920.20 and VAT on this amount, if appropriate. It 
should also pay interest on the settlement amount and £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay a cash settlement of £920.20
Pay VAT on this amount. It can ask Mr D to provide evidence of the VAT element if it 
requires proof of this.Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date on which Mr D first made the claim 
to the date on which Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited makes the payment.
Pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman