DRN-1962327
The complaint
Mr R complains about various charges being sought from him by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) after he returned a car that had been on hire to him.
What happened
In July 2017 Mr R entered into a 24 month contract hire agreement with MBFS.
Following the cars return, Mr R received an invoice for £2,550.87, broken down as follows:
damage charges £1,003.45
excess mileage charge £1,547.42
Although Mr R accepted the excess mileage charge was payable, he didnt accept the 
damage charges were. 
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that MBFS was 
entitled to charge him what it had.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators conclusion and so his complaint has been passed to 
me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall outcome as the 
investigator, for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what 
has already been said.
Mr R doesnt dispute the excess mileage charge of £1,547.42. So other than confirming that 
I agree that this sum is payable by Mr R, I make no further comment or finding on this
particular point.
Its not unusual for a finance provider like MBFS to check at the end of an agreement that
the consumer took reasonable care of the car. And the hire agreement makes provision for
MBFS to be able to charge for damage that is deemed beyond fair wear and tear and/or
missing items.
The trade body that oversees the car rental and leasing sector  the British Vehicle Renting
and Leasing Renting Association (BVRLA)  has issued guidance which outlines what is
considered to be fair wear and tear and what is chargeable damage. In looking at this type of
complaint and deciding whether MBFS has acted reasonably, I take account of this guidance
as I think its a good indicator of what damage is fair for a business to charge for.
£239.50 for a right hand front door mirror assembly
BVRLA guidance states in respect of door mirrors missing, cracked or damaged door mirror 
glass and housing units are not acceptable.
MBFS guidance states that on return of the car it should be free from any broken or 
damaged items .
Having regard to Mr Rs admission that the right hand front door mirror assembly was 
damaged on its return I find, in all the circumstances here, that MBFS has acted fairly and 
reasonably in charging Mr R £239.50.
£230.20 for a cut to the right hand rear tyre and £370.00 for damage to all four alloy wheels
BVRLA guidance states in respect of tyres and wheels there must be no damage to the 
sidewalls or tread and scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel and on 
alloy wheels are acceptable
MBFS guidance states in respect of tyres that any gouge, crack, cut , torn or plugged tyre 
side wall is not acceptable and in respect of wheels scuff chips and scratches exceeding 
25mm is not acceptable.
Having regard to the photographs provided by MBFS Im satisfied that all four alloy wheels 
had scuffs exceeding 50mm and the right hand rear tyre had damage to the sidewall. And
having thought about all the circumstances here, Im satisfied that what MBFS charged for
this, being £370.00 and £230.20 respectively, was reasonable.
£115.75 for a missing literature pack
BVRLA guidance states in respect of documentation all vehicle documentation must be 
intact and available includingoperation manualservice record bookany other 
documents All documents must be present in the vehicle when its returned.
MBFS guidance states in respect of items to be returned with the vehicle you must return 
the vehicle together with everything originally supplied with the vehicle: V5C log book (if 
applicable), spare/additional keys, transmitter and codes, alarm system, locking wheel nuts, 
vehicle handbook, complete service manual, charging cables (if applicable). 
Having had regard to Mr Rs admission that the vehicle was returned without its literature 
pack, and it was some months later this was found by him, I find in in all the circumstances 
here that MBFS has acted fairly and reasonably in charging Mr R £115.75.
£48.00 for an interior valet
BVRLA guidance states in respect of the interior, [that it] must be clean and the inside 
should have been valeted and cleared of all rubbish
MBFS guidance states, in respect of the interior, the vehicle must bein good, clean and 
marketable condition.
Having regard to the photographs provided by MBFS Im satisfied that the car was returned 
without having been valeted and returned in a general state of uncleanliness. And having 
thought about all the circumstances here, Im satisfied that what MBFS charged for this, 
being £48.00, was reasonable.
For the sake of completeness I would also add that I accept that the car might have beenable to be repaired for a lessor sum than MBFS charged Mr R. But it was open to Mr R to
have any damage repaired himself before the car was returned. MBFS are entitled to charge
for damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear and the fact that repairs can be carried out
more cheaply elsewhere doesnt mean that MBFS charges are unreasonable.
Similarly, theres no obligation on MBFS to carry out the repairs. If the repairs arent carried
out this is reflected in the reduction of the cars value when it comes to be sold at auction, for
which MBFS should be compensated.
For the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied that the end of agreement charges of £1,003.45
are fair and I wont be directing MBFS to reduce or waive them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman