DRN-3907583
The complaint
Mrs A complains that United Trust Bank (UTB) didnt make clear the early withdrawal fee on 
a cash ISA product. She would like UTB to be more transparent, and to allow penalty free or 
reduced penalty access to the account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mrs As frustration; she took out a cash ISA with UTB  this was a fixed 
rate product with a term of several years. Since then interest rates have risen 
considerably, and I understand  Mrs A looked to transfer the money but hadnt 
appreciated the penalty clause that would apply if she did so. I need to make it clear 
that in this decision I can only consider UTBs action in relation to Mrs As specific 
complaint. Its not for us to tell businesses how to communicate with customers 
generally.
I have looked at the documentation that UTB provided when Mrs A took out her ISA 
and  I appreciate the penalty for withdrawal of funds is high. Mrs A has made the 
point that its more than other business apply but  UTB doesnt have to apply the 
same penalties as other businesses.
The product information leaflet states that early withdrawal is subject to a penalty 
clause and the account is subject to its terms and conditions. And the application 
form Mrs A signed had a box for her to tick to say he agreed to the terms and 
conditions. The terms and conditions state that funds can only be withdrawn early 
from fixed deposit accounts in exceptional circumstances. And if exceptional 
circumstances are agreed it gives the formula for early withdrawal as detailed by our 
investigator in her view. The terms and conditions also show a worked example. I 
appreciate Mrs A would have had to look at the terms and conditions to see the exact 
penalty clause, but the information is clearly there and consumers are responsible for 
checking the suitability of products.
Unfortunately, I cant reasonably ask UTB to allow Mrs A to withdraw her funds early 
with no or with a reduced penalty. Its terms and conditions clearly state what the 
penalty is so, whilst Mrs A might not agree with it UTB, it is entitled to charge the 
penalty as detailed in its terms and conditions. And of course, had interest rates 
fallen rather than risen Mrs A would have benefitted as UTB would have had to carry 
on paying the rate of interest applicable when Mrs A took out the product.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont upheld his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman