DRN-3465666
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made an irresponsible lending decision when it
provided him with a loan. And its failed to treat him fairly when hes later found himself in
financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr K took out a personal loan with Barclays in August 2015. He borrowed £4,300 over a
period of five years with a monthly repayment amount of £107.87. Mr K struggled to make
the payments to the loan from August 2016 and Barclays defaulted the account on 28
November 2016.
Mr K feels the loan shouldnt have been given to him. Hes explained hes struggled with
gambling transactions for a number of years and provided medical reports to show the
impact of this on his mental health. Hes now asked that Barclays write off the outstanding
loan amount and remove any negative information from his credit file. As together with the
loan been provided when it shouldnt have been, hes got no reasonable prospect of
repaying the loan now or in the future.
Barclays has said it is not currently pursuing the debt and no payments are currently
expected. But it hasnt been written off. Its effectively put this on hold for 12 months and the
situation will be reviewed at the end of the period. Notifications of arrears will still be
provided during this time as it is required to send these biannually. Its taken these steps as
its considered the medical evidence provided by Mr K which details his mental health and
impact of his gambling. It accepts he is unable to repay the debt at this point but hasnt
agreed this could never be repaid  it will review the account annually and make future
decisions based on what it thinks is most appropriate at the time.
Our investigator looked at the unaffordable lending complaint. They said they didnt think
Barclays had been irresponsible with its lending decision. He didnt give any comment on the
steps taken by Barclays now in relation to the debt.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ks complaint on 21 April. I said that I wasnt planning 
on upholding Mr Ks complaint. Ive copied what I said below:
Mr Ks complaint has two parts to it, the lending decision made when the loan was taken out
and whether Barclays is acting fairly now with the decisions its taking in relation to the 
outstanding debt. Ill review each of these in turn.
The lending decision
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending is set out on our website and Ive
followed this approach when looking at Mr Ks complaint.
The regulations in place at the time when Mr K took out his loan with Barclays are set by the 
FCA in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) rules. These required Barclays to carry 
out a credit worthiness assessment with reasonable and proportionate checks to determine 
whether Mr K could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks needed to 
be borrower focused, so give consideration to whether making the repayments in a 
sustainable way would likely result in difficulties for Mr K.
There is no set list of checks, and as these are borrower focused, it follows that they can 
differ from one customer to the next. But consideration to the size of the borrowing and the 
term of the commitment would likely impact when more checks might be needed to be 
deemed reasonable and proportionate.
Our investigator explained that he thought the checks carried out by Barclays were 
reasonable and proportionate, based on the amount of borrowing and term it was being 
taken over. The credit file for Mr K at the time the borrowing was taken out didnt show 
anything to suggest the loan might be unaffordable or likely unsustainable. And although 
there was evidence of gambling transactions on the account in the months ahead of the
borrowing, these were minimal compared to Mr Ks overall disposable income. And even
when taken into consideration he felt the loan was affordable.
I agree with our investigator on the unaffordable lending. I think the checks carried out by
Barclays were reasonable and proportionate. Mr K didnt have a huge amount of monthly
commitments and the loan repayment were well within the total amount he had available
each month as his disposable income. There was little to show the borrowing might be
unaffordable from his credit file and the gambling transactions, although not insignificant,
didnt suggest that Mr K was spending more than he could afford each month with his
account often maintaining a positive balance. So I dont think it was evident that the loan was
unaffordable or unsustainable.
I dont think Barclays acted irresponsibly when lending to Mr K and wont be asking it to take
any further steps in relation to its lending decision. 
Forbearance and support
CONC doesnt just set out the obligations on lenders when providing credit. It also gives
direction on the steps a lender must take when a consumer is experiencing financial
difficulties. This includes the obligation to treat customers in financial difficulties with
forbearance and due consideration. Put simply, they need to treat the consumer fairly. There
is further guidance for lenders on what is expected when working with vulnerable consumers
who are suffering with mental health conditions. One of the requirements here is to make
sure these customers are dealt with by individuals with the appropriate skills and capability
to recognise and respond to the needs of each person. And where it is clear the consumer
doesnt have the capacity to make relevant financial decisions about the management of
their debt and engage with the debt recovery process at the time, it should suspend the
pursuit of the debt recovery.
Mr K has shared a great deal of information with us and Barclays to support the impact of his
gambling and how this has affected his mental health. Im grateful for him providing this.
Mr K is currently under the care of the NHS and it is supporting him with his gambling and
mental health and the reports shared by Mr K show how he has struggled with this for some
time. It has put a plan in place to help assist Mr K with is mental health and gambling
addiction and I hope he is successful with this. Mr K feels as a result of this, the fairest
option for Barclays and himself now would be for it to write off the remaining balance of the
loan and to remove any negative information from his credit file. I understand why hes
requested this, but I dont agree its an appropriate step at this point.
Barclays has referred Mr K to its vulnerable consumer team and it has been working with
him and his outstanding debt. Its taken steps to recognise whether there is currently anyprospect of Mr K being able to repay this and engage with the debt recovery process.
Currently it has paused all collection activity in relation to the debt for 12 months with a view
to review this at the end of the period. So it has recognised from the information provided
that Mr K might not have the capacity to make relevant financial decisions at this point. I
think its acted fairly here and in line with the obligations placed upon it.
CONC makes it clear that when dealing with financial difficulty and arrears, firms should not
ask consumers to make payments with short notice or at a level which could result in harm.
Mr K isnt being asked to make any payment at the moment and the interest and charges on
the account have been frozen for some time. I think Barclays is taking positive steps to help
reduce the impact of the money owed to it with this not being pursued now, it hopes this will
support Mr K and his mental health. But it doesnt think at this stage it would be fair to write
off the debt completely. I must stress it hasnt said this will never be an option but that at this
point it is acting fairly and in line with the guidance.
Barclays has, as Ive said above given Mr K 12 months breathing space with its debt and I
think this is fair and reasonable. I know other lenders have agreed to write off Mr Ks debts
but there is no obligation on them to do this. And each business will assess the
circumstances of its lending and their debts on an individual basis. I think Barclays has
demonstrated it is treating Mr K fairly, offering forbearance and due consideration to his
current situation and because of this, Im not planning on asking it to do anything else in
relation to the outstanding loan balance.
Barclays responded to say it agreed with the outcome but confirmed it will continue to 
support Mr K as a vulnerable consumer within its dedicated team. 
Mr K disagreed and reiterated that all of his other debts have been written off by the relevant 
providers and he provided his most recent health assessments, detailing the impact of his 
gambling and the debts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed everything on this complaint again as well as the information supplied in 
response to my provisional decision by Mr K. He had no response to my comments on the 
lending decision so I dont intend to cover this again. My decision follows that of my 
provisional, detailed above. And I dont think Barclays made an irresponsible lending 
decision when it opened the loan account for Mr K.
Mr K has said again that he feels Barclays should be writing off this debt and it is the last of 
his accounts left open with a negative balance. Hes said all others have been written off by 
the relevant providers. 
In my provisional decision I explained that I felt Barclays acted fairly with the steps taken to 
support Mr K. It has, for some time now, been working with Mr K and his debt and when 
given details of how this and his gambling addiction has impacted his mental health, it 
suspended all activity on the account for 12 months. I still think its acted fairly here and been 
reasonable with the steps taken. 
Mr K originally provided evidence to show he was under the care of the NHS and was due to 
start treatment for his gambling addiction and mental health issues and it didnt seem 
unreasonable for Barclays to wait and review the position in 12 months. However, the complaint has been with this service for some time and in response to the 
provisional decision, Mr K provided a Debt and Mental Health Evidence Form which was 
completed by a mental health nurse at the end of March this year (2022). It is an 
assessment of Mr K and his mental health problems, giving a diagnosis of his conditions as 
they are now. It highlights gambling related harm with these and its clear he is still struggling 
with his gambling addiction. It says the following in relation to how this impacts him:
Addiction prevented him from making sound financial decisions and resulted in a significant 
debt, which in turn, had detrimental effect on his mental health and overall well-being. 
Barclays said in response to the provisional decision that it will continue to work with Mr K 
and its vulnerable consumer team. I think its important that Barclays does this and reviews 
Mr K and his ongoing mental health and how he is progressing with his treatment. The report 
confirms that there has been a significant reduction in Mr Ks gambling but he hasnt been 
able to stop completely and that Mr K has expressed suicidal ideation. So while Im still of 
the opinion Barclays hasnt acted unfairly with the steps taken previously, it may well decide 
to do something differently with the debt in the future when it considers whether the pursuit 
of the debt could lead to further harm to Mr K.
This service has provided the updated records to Barclays and asked that it reviews Mr Ks 
account and its position now based on this. I expect it to contact him directly with this 
response. If Mr K is unhappy with the response, he may bring a new complaint and we can 
consider whether Barclays is still acting fairly with the relevant forbearance and support. But 
as I think it acted fairly with the steps taken previously and complained about, I dont see any 
reason to depart from the outcome in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against Barclays Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman