DRN-3850749
The complaint
Miss J complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) for wrongly 
informing her of the minimum repayment amount on her credit card. She wants Halifax to 
honour the repayment amount she was told, and to pay compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
Miss J held a credit card with a balance with company L. Her balance was around £7900.
Miss J also held a credit card with Halifax. This card was not in use and was essentially 
dormant. 
In early 2022, Miss J began researching credit cards with balance transfer offers. As part of 
this she contacted Halifax. Halifax offered her a 0% interest rate on balance transfers to her 
card, up until July 2023.
Miss J asked the agent of Halifax what the minimum repayment was on the card. The agent 
told her it was 1% of the outstanding balance.
Miss J arranged to transfer her balance to the Halifax card.
When Miss J received her statements, however, the minimum repayment required was 2.5% 
of the outstanding balance. This meant that where Miss J had expected to repay a minimum 
of around £80 per month, she actually had to repay more than £200 per month.
Miss J complained to Halifax, she explained that she had been told the lower amount by its 
agent and that had caused her to take the card.
Halifax responded, upholding the complaint. It acknowledged that she had been wrongly 
advised by its agent. 
Halifax offered to reverse the transfer back to Miss Js previous card and to refund the 
balance transfer fee. It offered to freeze the interest on her L card for 3 months while she 
looked for an alternative offer and offered her £150 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
Miss J asked Halifax what it could do if she chose to keep the balance with her Halifax card. 
She had recently taken on a mortgage and did not want to do additional credit applications. 
She also thought that offers which had been available in early 2022 would no longer be 
available.
Halifax indicated that if she chose to keep the Halifax card it would refund the balance 
transfer fee and maintain its offer of £150 compensation.
Miss J was not happy with this and contacted us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend that Halifax do anything 
further. They thought that the offer made was reasonable and reflected the inconvenience 
caused.
Miss J did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I have previously issued two provisional decisions in respect of this matter. The first was 
based on a misunderstanding of the facts, and the belief that Miss J took out the Halifax card 
as new in reliance on the agents information, rather than that she transferred a balance to 
an existing card which she held but had not been using. 
In my second provisional decision, I changed my view and agreed with the investigator that 
the offer made by Halifax was reasonable.
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Halifax has not made any further submissions or provided any additional evidence. 
Miss J has responded making clear that she had never suggested that she took out the card 
after the information, but reiterating that she made the balance transfer in reliance on the 
wrong information. She advises that discovering her monthly liability was so much higher 
than she expected has had a severe impact on her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My previous misunderstanding was not due to any misrepresentation by either party and 
both parties have been open and forthcoming throughout. 
Miss J has reiterated that she transferred the balance to the Halifax card because it had the 
best offer she found at that time, and also because the agent told her the minimum 
repayment was lower than other cards. 
I do not doubt this, and I accept that she acted in good faith when transferring the balance. I 
also accept that she would have been very shocked and upset to see the much higher 
minimum repayment when she received her monthly statement. She has explained that she 
was expecting to be able to improve her finances more than she was then able to. 
I understand this, and changing my view was not to doubt the emotional impact that the 
change in information had on Miss J. The disappointment and anxiety that this issue had on 
Miss J did not substantially change in my estimation. 
The change in my view was to reflect that the context changed and so Miss J had not acted 
so much to her detriment by moving the balance. If she had taken the card out as new, this 
would have involved credit searches and an application process, which would have affected 
her ability to continue looking for other deals. She may also have missed out on alternatives 
which better suited her needs.
As she already had the card, she did not incur any additional credit searches, and she has 
confirmed that the Halifax offer was in all other aspects better than alternatives which were 
available at that time. 
Consequently, whilst I sympathise with Miss J, I think that the offer made by Halifax is reasonable to reflect the disappointment, and the inconvenience she was put to, by the 
agent giving the wrong information. I appreciate that Miss J does not consider that the offer 
is sufficient, but I am satisfied that it is in line with other awards we would make in similar 
circumstances, when viewed as a holistic offer.
Halifax has confirmed that its offer(s) remain open to Miss J, and I therefore do not ask 
Halifax to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Js complaint and do not ask Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman