DRN-4224772
Complaint
M, a limited company, is represented by its director, Mr M. He complains that ClearBank 
Limited (Tide) hasnt reimbursed the company after it fell victim to a scam.
Background
In June 2022, Mr M fell victim to a scam. He had been looking into leasing a new vehicle, 
agreed terms with an individual and made an upfront payment. After doing so, he became 
concerned that the arrangement was a scam and so he notified Tide the following morning.
Later that day, Mr M was targeted by a separate scam. He received a text message that 
purported to be from Tide. This resulted in a telephone conversation with someone who 
claimed be one of its employees. They persuaded Mr M that they were a genuine employee 
by drawing his attention to the number theyd called him on. Mr M tells us that he asked his 
partner to search for Tides number online and found that it matched the number that had 
called him. He was unaware that it was possible for fraudsters to spoof phone numbers in 
this way.
The individual told him that a fraudster was attempting to remove money from his company 
account. It was therefore essential that he transfer his funds to a safe account without 
delay and that one had already been set up for him. He made two transfers for £3,641.98 
and £2,745.35 respectively. These transfers reduced the balance on his account to zero.
Once he realised hed fallen victim to a second scam, he notified Tide. It didnt agree to 
reimburse him. It said that, once notified of the scam, it had done everything it could to 
recover Ms money from the receiving accounts and there was nothing further it could do. Mr 
M was unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part.
The Investigator thought that Tide shouldve recognised that there was an enhanced risk of a 
scam when Mr M asked it to make the payment of £2,745.35. In his view, this was out of 
character for the account and Tide shouldnt have processed it without first checking with its 
customer to ensure it wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud. If it had done so, the 
Investigator was persuaded that the scam wouldve been prevented.
Tide disagreed with the Investigators view. It noted that the Investigator had attached some 
significance to the fact that these payments were to a new payee. But Tide pointed out that 
since opening the account, M had added 13 new payees  averaging around three per 
month. It pointed out that M was a business customer  and activity that might appear 
concerning on a personal account might not do so on a business account. Finally, it wasnt 
convinced that, even if it had contacted Mr M, that he would necessarily have engaged with 
them and so it cant be taken for granted that this wouldve prevented the scam from taking 
place.
As Tide disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.  
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position under the relevant regulations is that M is generally liable for authorised 
transactions. Its common ground that these payments were authorised and so M is 
presumed liable at first instance. However, good industry practice required that Tide be on 
the lookout for account activity that was out of character or unusual to the extent that it might 
be indicative of a fraud risk. On identifying such activity, Id expect it to take reasonable 
steps to protect its customer from that risk.
The Investigator found that the third payment marked the point at which Tide ought to have 
identified the risk and I agree with that conclusion. The account had paid over £6,000 in two 
transactions made in quick succession and these reduced the balance on the account to 
zero. Furthermore, the two payments M made as part of the safe account scam came after 
hed notified Tide that hed fallen victim to the first scam. In my view, Tide ought to have 
displayed greater vigilance against the risk that M might be targeted for a second scam like 
this one. 
It shouldnt have processed that third payment without first making enquiries with M to 
ensure that it wasnt at risk of fraud. Ive also considered, if Tide had intervened in the way 
Ive described, whether the scam wouldve been prevented. I recognise Tides argument that 
I cannot know with certainty what wouldve happened if it had taken steps to intervene. 
When dealing with such uncertainty, I have to consider the question on the balance of 
probabilities  i.e. does the evidence show that, if Tide had intervened in connection with the 
third payment, its more likely than not that the scam wouldve been prevented?
Mr M doesnt appear to have been coached by the scammer or prepared to respond to any 
such challenge  so if hed been asked about the motivation for making the payment, theres 
no reason to think he wouldve been anything other than candid. It follows that its more likely 
than not the scam wouldve quickly come to light and Mr M wouldve been prevented from 
making that third payment.
For completeness, I also considered whether Tide did everything it needed to do once it 
became aware of the scam. I can see that it contacted the banks that operated the 
fraudsters accounts in an attempt to recover Ms money  but unfortunately, the funds had 
already been moved on and so no recovery was possible.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint in part.
If M accepts my decision, ClearBank Limited should refund the third transaction of 
£2,745.35. It should also add 8% simple interest per year to that sum calculated to run from 
the date the payment left Ms account until the date any settlement is paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman