DRN-4160594
The complaint
Mr U complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim to an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr U saw a vehicle for sale, on a well-known online marketplace, that he was interested in 
buying. Mr U has said the vehicle was around £600-£700 cheaper than others he had seen 
advertised. Hes told us that he contacted the seller and checked the vehicle on the gov.uk 
website and the details matched.
Believing everything to be genuine Mr U agreed to buy the vehicle and, on 16 December 
2022, sent three payments from his Monzo account, totalling £3,390, to two separate 
account details that were given to him. But unknown to him at the time, Mr U was dealing 
with  fraudsters and had sent his payments to accounts the fraudsters controlled. A 
breakdown of the payments Mr U made is listed below;
16 December 2022 @ 12:56 £40.00
16 December 2022 @ 15:35 £10.00
16 December 2022 @ 15:55 £3,340
Mr U became suspicious a couple of days after making the payments, when he discussed 
the transactions with his wife and she thought this might be a scam.
Mr U raised the matter with Monzo. It has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory), which requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in 
this case.
Monzo issued its final response to Mr U on 15 February 2023, not upholding his complaint. 
In summary it said it had followed its correct internal procedures and there had been no 
error. It added that it had reached out to the beneficiary banks (the banks to which the 
payments were made), but had only been able to recover £40 (the first payment) of the 
money Mr U had lost, which was returned to him.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr U then brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In 
summary, our Investigator didnt consider the first two payments Mr U made, for £10 and 
£40 warranted Monzo providing Mr U with an effective scam warning. But that at the point  
Mr U made his third payment our Investigator considered that an effective warning ought to 
have been given.
Our Investigator added that he thought the third payment was substantial enough for Monzo 
to have provided an effective warning, which he didnt consider it had done under the CRM 
code. But he clarified that, in the circumstances of this case, this didnt mean Monzo ought to 
have intervened to the point of stopping the payment and speaking to Mr U before allowing 
the payment to be progressed. But that it still ought to have provided an effective warning sin 
accordance with the CRM code.
But the Investigator also felt there was enough red flags that ought to have led Mr U to have 
carried out more checks to make sure the payment he was making was to a legitimate 
company. So our Investigator thought Mr U should share the responsibility with Monzo. In 
view of this, our Investigator recommended that Monzo should refund Mr U 50% of the 
money he lost from the third payment he made (being £1,670), along with interest.
Mr U agreed with our Investigators view, but Monzo disagreed. As agreement couldnt be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U doesnt dispute that he made the three payments from his Monzo account. This means 
they were authorised by him. So the starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the account terms and conditions is that Mr U is responsible for the payments as 
well as any resulting losses.
But the matter doesnt end there. Ive also considered whether Mr U should have received a 
refund of the money he lost under the provisions of the CRM code. Monzo has committed to 
following the CRM code. This means Monzo has committed to reimburse customers who are 
victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances.
The exceptions relevant to this case are:
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
- The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
Our Investigator didnt think Mr U had done enough to ensure that he was dealing with a 
legitimate company and that Mr U should, at least in part, take some responsibility for his 
loss as a result of this. For the same reasons explained in their view, I agree with our 
Investigators position on this point.
Mr U has agreed with our Investigators view and Monzo hasnt argued that Mr U shouldnt 
take some responsibility. So all that is left for me to consider is whether Mr U ignored an 
effective warning. Our Investigators view was that Monzo ought to have provided Mr U with 
an effective warning at the point he made his third payment. He added he didnt think the 
warnings Monzo provided were effective. Monzo disagreed, it didnt think the lack of a scam 
warning was an error, nor was it a requirement of the Code.
Ive thought about this carefully, having done so I dont think it would have been necessary 
for Monzo to have provided effective warnings for the first two payments Mr U made. But, in 
the circumstances of this case, Im persuaded that it ought to have provided an effective warning at the point he made his third payment. I say that as it wasnt for an insignificant 
value and followed, in quick succession, two other payments to new payees. Considering 
this I think it should have triggered a warning. Im not suggesting this warning should 
necessarily have extended to Monzo blocking the payment and having a conversation with 
Mr U, but the warning should have met at least the minimum criteria required under the CRM 
code.
Ive considered the warnings Monzo says it gave Mr U during the payment journey and I 
appreciate that it tried to provide an effective warning. But overall, Im not satisfied it can 
reasonably be said that the requirements of the effective warning exception were met. I dont 
think the warning was impactful or specific enough. For instance it doesnt specifically relate 
to Mr Us situation or the scam he was falling victim to and doesnt bring to life the nature of 
car purchase scams. So Im not satisfied that the low friction warning provided is sufficient to 
demonstrate Monzo has provided an effective warning.
In summary, with the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider 
that Mr U ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the goods hed been offered 
and that, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on his part. In not 
carrying out sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the goods 
were genuine. But I also dont think Monzo has been able to demonstrate that it provided an 
effective warning to Mr U at the point he was making his third payment. I therefore consider, 
in line with the provisions of the CRM code, liability should be shared equally between 
Monzo and Mr U, for the third payment he made.
Finally, Ive considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Mr U 
lost, once he had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Monzo did contact 
the receiving banks when he raised the matter, but it was only able to recover £40 of the 
money Mr U had lost. Evidence Ive seen, from the receiving banks, shows that the majority 
of the funds Mr U paid were removed from the beneficiary accounts within minutes of Mr U 
making the payments. So I dont think Monzo has missed an opportunity to recover the 
money Mr U sadly lost.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Monzo Bank Ltd should now;
- Refund Mr U 50% of his loss from the third payment he made, being £1670 (50% of 
£3,340)
- Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it declined Mr Us claim under the CRM 
Code, to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman