DRN-2312849
The complaint
Mr R complains that there were no £50 notes available when he went into his local branch of 
Santander UK Plc (Santander) to withdraw cash.
What happened
Earlier this year, Mr R went to his local branch of Santander to withdraw some cash. He 
wanted to withdraw £700 in total and did this over three days. Mr R needed the money in 
£50 notes. On his first visit, he says he withdrew £200 with no problems. On the second visit, 
he withdrew a further £200 but he says the cashier didnt have any £50 notes in her till and 
had to get them from a colleague. On the third day, he says he went into the branch at 
around midday to withdraw the remaining £300. He says the cashier told him she didnt have 
any £50 notes so he would have to have the money in other notes. But Mr R needed £50 
notes and made that clear to the cashier. He says she asked him to come back in 15 
minutes so that she could get the notes from the safe.
 
Mr R left and, when he returned around 15 minutes later, he was able to withdraw the £300 
in £50 notes. But Mr R isnt happy that the notes werent available in the till straight away. He 
says that the bank should have the full range of bank notes available and that the cashiers 
should monitor their tills throughout the day and keep them topped up if they are getting low.
Mr R found the situation very distressing. And he has queried whether it amounts to a 
breach of Santanders duties under legislation such as the Equality Act 2010. He says he 
went to another bank locally where he has accounts to find out their views on the situation. 
He says that the branch manager there thought the situation was absurd.
Mr R raised a complaint with Santander. Santander apologised for the inconvenience but 
didnt uphold the complaint because Mr R had been able to obtain the notes he wanted 
when he returned after 15 minutes. Mr R also spoke to the Santander branch manager, who 
he says was rude and told him he could close his account if he wasnt happy. Mr R wasnt 
satisfied with Santanders response and says that the situation has been very traumatic, 
particularly in light of his health issues. He asked this service to look into it.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had acted unreasonably so she didnt ask it to do 
anything. But Mr R didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R feels very strongly about his complaint, so I know he will find my decision 
disappointing. But I dont think Santander has acted unreasonably here. Ill explain why.
Santander has said that the branch tries to ensure that at least one cashier always has some 
£50 notes in the till. I think thats a reasonable approach. I realise Mr R found it frustrating 
that, on his second visit, the cashier who was serving him didnt have the notes in her own till 
and had to get them from a colleague. But I dont think that was unreasonable and Mr R was 
able to get the notes he wanted on that visit.
 
In relation to Mr Rs third visit to the branch, Santander has explained that another customer 
had been in and withdrawn cash in £50 notes just beforehand. I think thats a reasonable 
explanation for why there were no more £50 notes in the tills at the time Mr R attended the 
branch.
Mr R says that the cashier offered him £300 in other denominations. I dont think that was 
unreasonable, as I havent seen anything which suggests she was aware at that stage of the 
reason why he needed £50 notes and why other notes wouldnt be suitable.
When Mr R told the cashier that he needed the money in £50 notes, she asked him to come 
back in 15 minutes so that she could get the notes from the safe. So, there were £50 notes 
on the premises, just not in the till. I dont find that to be unreasonable. Santander has 
explained that there is a procedure which staff have to follow if they need to go to the safe. I 
would expect that to be the case. I dont think it was unreasonable for the cashier to ask Mr 
R to come back later. She was looking to meet his request for £50 notes and needed some 
time to do this.
I realise it was inconvenient for Mr R to have to go away for 15 minutes and he has said it 
wasnt good weather for walking around outside. But I dont think 15 minutes was an 
excessive amount of time for him to wait. And, when he came back, he got the notes he 
needed. So I dont find that there was any significant detriment to Mr R.
But he says that he had been into the branch the week before and told the staff that he 
would come back the following week to withdraw £700. I understand that he feels the notes 
he wanted should have been available when he came in. But I havent seen anything 
conclusive which shows that Mr R told Santander in advance that he needed the money in 
£50 notes and that the notes needed to be available at a particular time for him to collect. So 
I dont think its unreasonable that there werent enough £50 notes in the till at the time Mr R 
visited the branch. They were available from the safe and Mr R was able to obtain them after 
a short delay.
Mr R says that the branch manager at another bank didnt think the situation was 
satisfactory. I understand that Mr R feels strongly about this. But, just because another bank 
might take a different approach in this situation, it doesnt mean that Santanders approach 
was unreasonable. In the circumstances here, I dont find that Santander acted 
unreasonably.
Mr R has also raised concerns about how Santanders approach sits with its legal obligations 
under, for example, the Equality Act 2010. I can understand why hes concerned about this. 
But its not the role of this service to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  
thats a matter for the courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Having considered the particular circumstances of Mr Rs complaint, I dont 
think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R. But, for the reasons above, Im not going to ask Santander to 
do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman