DRN-4058702
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited has dealt with a subsidence claim he 
made under a buildings insurance policy.
What happened
What follows is a summary of the events that have led to this complaint. It doesnt therefore 
provide all of the facts or is it meant to serve as a detailed timeline.
Mr A has had a long running subsidence issue with his property which started in 2003. Aviva 
is the current insurer on risk and is dealing with the more recent movement at the property.
This service previously considered a complaint Mr A made about how Aviva was dealing 
with matters and in 2018, an ombudsman here directed how Aviva should continue with the 
claim.
The property suffered further movement and in 2020, further tree mitigation measures were 
undertaken.
Mr A has provided reports from different engineers to support his assertion that Aviva should 
consider underpinning the property. Aviva reviewed these but wasnt satisfied they were 
based on investigations and monitoring carried out by the individuals concerned. More that 
they expressed their opinion on what had gone before. Mr A was unhappy about this and 
complained.
To move matters, forward Aviva suggested that an Independent Engineer be appointed, and 
Mr A could select one from three options put forward by Aviva. Mr A didnt accept this as a 
reasonable proposal as he said the individuals/companies put forward by Aviva were not 
sufficiently qualified.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and let Mr A know that she thought Avivas proposal 
of instructing an independent engineer was reasonable.
Mr A disagreed that it was a reasonable proposal based on whom Aviva had suggested. And 
asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
Further developments
After noticing further issues with the property Mr A then said he would agree to an 
Independent Engineer providing a report as long as it was someone he chose. Mr A also 
brought up the fact that Aviva didnt supply him with a certificate of structural adequacy as 
the last ombudsman directed. And that this individual would be able to do this at the 
completion of the claim.
Aviva disagreed with this proposal as it said, Mr A choosing the engineer wouldnt make 
them independent. And it was concerned by the suggestion that a certificate of adequacy 
could be issued, as the individual wouldnt usually be instructed with the intention they then 
proceed with the claim.
Mr A subsequently went on to source and instruct a further structural engineer to provide a 
report on the property. He has recently sent this to this service.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 16 March 2023. I said I did not intend to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
I want to assure Mr A Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has 
made. However, the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by both parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
I must be clear that my decision only considers the matter that was brought to this service - 
whether Avivas offer to instruct an independent engineer from a choice of three was 
reasonable. This was addressed in Avivas final response dated 23 August 2022. I will not be 
considering any other matter related to the claim or what has happened since.
Given the obvious disagreement between the parties and conflicting opinions, it is usually 
the opinion of this service that matters can be settled by getting an independent opinion. 
Aviva offered this to Mr A, so I dont think it acted unreasonably here.
I realise Mr A didnt feel the individuals/companies presented were sufficiently qualified to 
provide an opinion. And, that the structural engineer hed previously appointed to provide an 
opinion was more qualified than those suggested.
However, given that Mr A has now instructed a further engineer to provide a report, I do not 
need to make a decision on this issue. The matter has now moved on so much that any 
decision I could have made on that point has now been superseded by Mr As actions. For 
completeness however, I may have suggested that the parties work together to find an 
engineer each was happy to jointly instruct. This would have ensured the parameters and 
requirements for the report would be set out in advance and the subsequent report would 
meet the needs of both parties.
Having reviewed everything, I do not uphold Mr As complaint. I think Aviva was reasonable 
to offer the choice of an independent engineer from a panel of three.
It isnt the role of this service to manage claims and we are unable to consider matters where 
one of the partys hasnt had the opportunity to do so themselves.
Mr A will now need to provide Aviva with the new report he has obtained, and it will need to 
consider this further. If Mr A is unhappy with any decision Aviva may then make, he would 
be entitled to complain and again approach this service if he remained unhappy.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva did not provide any further comments for me to consider. 
Mr A provided a detailed response reiterating what has happened and why he disagrees with 
my provisional decision. I can assure Mr A Ive read everything he has said, but in line with 
the informal nature of my role, Ill only give a summary of those points here:
He previously approached this service in 2021 complaining about Avivas suggested approach to only undertaken cosmetic repairs. Aviva then suggested the matter be 
reviewed by an engineer. The property then also required additional monitoring, so 
the complaint wasnt progressed at that point.
It was incorrect for Aviva to say the previous engineers reports were not based on 
investigations carried out by the individuals concerned, as they visited the property. 
The individuals put forward by Aviva were no more qualified than those he had 
previously asked to report on the issue and were unable to issue a certificate of 
structural adequacy  as the previous ombudsman ruling had required.
He did not state he would only agree to an engineer if it was someone he chose, 
simply that the engineer had to be able to issue a certificate of structural adequacy. 
The property has continued to move despite previous mitigation works which have 
not solved the problem.
Aviva should be directed to take action to stabilise the property before moving 
forward with extensive repair works.  
He asks me to confirm who will be issuing a certificate of structural adequacy as this 
wasnt issued after the previous ombudsmans ruling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the claim has been ongoing for many years and Mr A has approached this 
service prior to the current final response being issued by Aviva. However, it isnt always 
appropriate for this service to become involved in an ongoing claim, especially where 
matters are developing. It isnt the role of this service to act as a claims handler or to direct 
an insurer how they should be dealing with a claim as it is evolving.
I can confirm that I reviewed the information provided during that period however, it does not 
impact the decision I need to make here. The final response issued was limited specifically 
to how the claim should move forward at that point. i.e., whether it was reasonable for an 
independent engineer to be instructed. 
I am acutely aware Mr A wants to bring closure to this long running claim and Aviva ideally 
now be directed to undertake substructure alterations to the property. However, like the 
ombudsman said when considering the complaint in 2018, this is usually considered a last 
resort. The purpose of the insurance policy isnt to future proof the property and guarantee 
against any further movement, it is to deal with each incident as it happens and to make 
repairs that are considered to be lasting and effective. An insurance company is able to 
investigate and entitled to ensure all other technical solutions of achieving the same aim are 
considered and/or exhausted. 
So, my decision here, remains the same as stated in my provisional findings and for the 
same reasons. I think Avivas suggestion of appointing an independent engineer to move the 
claim forward at that point was a reasonable one. 
Aviva will now need to consider the new report Mr A has provided. As Mr A has said, it 
appears the property continues to move and therefore Aviva will now need to decide what 
the next steps are. As I mentioned in my provisional findings, if Mr A is unhappy about any subsequent decision Aviva makes, he would be entitled to make a further complaint. 
Once the property has been confirmed to have stabilised, we do usually expect an insurer to 
arrange for a certificate of structural adequacy to be provided. I wont however be making 
any direction here as to exactly who should be doing so as that is not my role here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman