DRN-3150511
Complaint
Mr R has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unreasonably continued applying 
charges to his overdraft in circumstances where it unreasonably allowed him to continually 
exceed his agreed limit.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and HSBC shouldnt have continued 
providing an overdraft to Mr R from July 2014 and it needed to refund all the interest, fees 
and charges it added from this point as a result. HSBC disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for review.
     
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
increased Mr Rs limit and continued adding interest and associated fees and charges to his 
overdraft in July 2014. 
By this point, HSBC would have seen that Mr R had been hardcore borrowing for some 
time. In other words, Mr Rs account remained continually overdrawn without returning to 
credit. And the Lending Code, which was in place at the time and which HSBC subscribed 
to, clearly stated that that hardcore borrowing was a potential indicator of difficulty. 
Mr R was continually exceeding his overdraft limit by hundreds of pounds and it was also 
evident that he was gambling significant sums of money. Indeed given his salary and the 
amount hed been consistently overdrawn by, I cant see how HSBC could reasonably have 
believed there was a reasonable prospect of Mr R breaking the cycle he found himself in 
without some kind of support to do so. 
So at this point, I think that HSBC ought to have realised that Mr R was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay his overdraft and should have stopped providing it on the same terms. It 
should have instead treated Mr R with forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective 
action in relation to the facility.
All of this means that HSBC should have realised that Mr R wasnt using his overdraft as 
intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become unsustainable shouldnt 
have continued offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mr Rs overdraft 
usage and instead continued to charge in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mr R ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft because HSBC 
failed to take action. So I think that Mr R lost out because of what HSBC did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges, 
not already refunded, applied to it from July 2014 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr R to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Rs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from July 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman