DRN-2017013
The complaint
Miss K complains Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) has not agreed to refund 
her in a dispute over an online purchase, and generally handled the matter poorly.
What happened
Miss K bought two online game streaming bundles from a well-known tech company I will 
call G, on 21 December 2019. Each bundle was made up of a controller, a 4K USB 
streaming device, and a three-month Pro membership to Gs streaming service. The 
bundles cost £119 each, which Miss K paid on her Virgin Money credit card. It appears the 
bundles were delivered by 23 December 2019.
The bundles were bought as gifts for Miss Ks nephews. Unfortunately, her nephews found 
the streaming service did not work very well. They reported that games were lagging and, 
when it worked at all, the service did not provide the 4K streaming quality advertised and the 
games appeared to be highly pixelated.
Miss K tried to resolve the issues via Gs customer services, but didnt have any success. 
She then complained to G via social media and asked to return the bundles for a refund. G 
didnt comment on her concerns about the products, but told her that she was outside of 
their 15 day return period. G didnt respond to further messages. 
At around the same time, Miss K disputed the payments for the bundles with Virgin Money, 
asking them to consider a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
She was sent a form to fill in which she returned to Virgin Money on 23 January 2020 and 
were received six days later. Miss K didnt hear anything for some time and when she 
followed things up she was unhappy with the responses Virgin Money gave to her questions, 
which she felt were incomplete or not proper answers. 
Virgin Money began dealing with the matter as a complaint on 18 March 2020. On 30 March 
2020 they sent a final response letter dealing with the customer service issues Miss K had 
experienced, along with a cheque for £75. Virgin Money accepted in this letter that it had 
provided a very poor level of service.
In the meantime, Virgin Money had attempted to claim a refund of the £238 paid to G, via a 
chargeback. G challenged the chargeback on the same grounds it had denied Miss K a 
refund  that she had tried to return her purchase outside of the return period. Virgin Money 
reviewed Gs challenge and decided that it couldnt dispute Miss Ks payment further, noting 
that she was outside of the contractual return period and that she hadnt tried to return the 
goods, and she couldnt keep the goods and have a refund. Virgin Money reapplied the 
disputed amount to Miss Ks account on 27 May 2020. In a letter dated 29 May 2020 which 
Miss K says she didnt receive at the time, Virgin Money also said that it had reviewed the 
claim under section 75 of the CCA and couldnt take it any further, though it didnt explain 
why. Later in 2020, Virgin Money sent Miss K correspondence saying it had turned down her 
section 75 claim because she didnt provide some information it had asked for. It isnt clear 
what prompted this later contact with Miss K. 
While Miss K was communicating with Virgin Money, she had also contacted our service and 
an investigator had begun looking into the matter early in May 2020. Having considered the 
evidence, she didnt think she could recommend that Virgin Money do anything more than it 
had already done. I will not reproduce our investigators detailed assessment here, but in 
very brief summary her views (set out in emails of 9 June 2020, 5 July 2020 and 17 July 
2020) were:
Virgin Money could have provided further details around the chargeback process, but 
wasnt wrong to decline it. 
Miss K didnt have a valid claim against Virgin Money under section 75 of the CCA.
Although Virgin Money had given Miss K poor customer service, it had already 
apologised and provided compensation for this.
Miss K didnt agree, and the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my decision I will focus on the matters which I see as being most relevant to the 
complaint, so while I may not comment on every point made by the parties to the case, I 
want to reassure them both that I have considered everything they have had to say.
When someone purchases goods or services with a credit card, their credit card provider 
may be able to help if they have a problem with what theyve bought, either through the 
chargeback system administered by the relevant card scheme (e.g. Visa or MasterCard), 
or because they have a legal obligation to do so under section 75 of the CCA.
Section 75 of the CCA
This section of the CCA gives consumers a degree of protection when making purchases of 
goods or services with certain types of credit, such as credit cards, so long as certain 
technical criteria are met. If the necessary conditions are met, then the consumer can claim 
against their credit card provider for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods or services. Miss K has said Gs service didnt work as it should have 
done, and that G broke promises it had made. These are in my view claims that G has 
breached its contract with her so I have focused on this, and not whether or not a 
misrepresentation took place, in my decision.
Did Miss K meet the technical criteria?
Virgin Money has suggested Miss K cannot make a valid claim under section 75 because 
she gifted the bundles to her nephews. One of the criteria which needs to be met for a valid 
claim to exist under section 75, is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement 
in place. What this means for Miss K is that she needs to have entered into a contract with G 
to buy the two bundles, and to have paid for these on her Virgin Money credit card. 
This is exactly what Miss K did. She bought two bundles from G using her Virgin Money 
credit card. The bundles were delivered directly to her at her address. The fact that she 
decided to give the bundles to her nephews as Christmas presents does not change the fact 
that she appears to contracted directly with G and would be the person who would be 
entitled to claim against G in respect of the bundles if, for example, they turned out to be 
unfit for purpose. In light of this I dont think Virgin Money is correct to say that Miss K cannot 
make a valid claim under section 75 because she gave the bundles to her nephews.Virgin Money hasnt argued that Miss Ks claim doesnt meet any of the other technical 
criteria, so I will not comment on this further other than to say that, having reviewed the 
evidence, I think it meets the criteria.
A breach of contract occurs when one party to the contract breaks its terms. These can be 
terms explicitly written into the contract, or terms which are not physically written into the 
contract but which are treated as being included, for example because legislation says they 
must be.
A key piece of legislation covering contracts for the sale of goods, services and digital 
content to consumers is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), and this causes certain 
terms to be included in such contracts. In Miss Ks case, each bundle was made of physical 
goods (a controller and streaming device), services (Gs online game streaming service) and 
digital content (the games hosted on the streaming service). 
In brief, the CRA says that goods and digital content will be as described and of satisfactory 
quality, this meaning the standard of quality that a reasonable person would find satisfactory 
taking into account the description, the price paid, and any other relevant circumstances. As 
for services, the CRA says these will be provided with reasonable care and skill. What this 
means is not defined in the CRA, but is generally held to mean the level of care and skill 
which would be provided by a competent provider of the service in question. All of the above 
are treated as being included in Miss Ks contract with G for the two bundles.
Miss K has described the following problems with the bundles:
Games played on the platform are lagging, by which I understand her to mean that 
her nephews experience a combination of high latency (where there is a delay in 
their controller inputs translating into actions on the screen) and stuttering (where the 
scene freezes briefly before resuming).
The quality of the image is not 4K and is highly pixelated. 
The above issues have combined to make playing games on the platform 
unplayable.
There arent many other people playing games on the platform.
Promises were broken about new games being released each month. 
The bundles should have been subject to a 30 day return period, not 15. 
The popularity of the platform isnt something which I think G has a great deal of control 
over, so I cant say that this represents a breach of contract by it. And the evidence Ive seen 
shows Gs returns policy was 15 days from the day of delivery, which unfortunately Miss K 
missed by a few days. Miss K has referred to UK law allowing a 30 day returns period but 
that isnt correct  the relevant law allow 14 days from the day after the day of delivery of any 
goods  which is in line with Gs policy. So I cant say that by refusing to allow Miss K to 
return the bundles, G breached its contract with her.
Ive gone on to consider the other issues and the evidence Miss K has provided to support 
them.
I think its fair to summarise Miss Ks evidence as feedback she has passed on from her 
nephews about their experience with the bundles, and a number of negative reviews about 
Gs platform which can be found online. She hasnt supplied any other evidence which is 
specific to how the bundles she bought failed to perform as expected. Miss K has said that 
such specific evidence isnt needed in the face of what she considers to be overwhelming evidence in the public domain about the problems with Gs platform and, in any case, she 
says the subscriptions included with the bundles have now expired so they cant be tested.
I accept Miss Ks point that there are a significant number of negative reviews of Gs platform 
dating from around the time she made her purchase. Many of these reviews reference the 
same kind of problems shes said her nephews experienced.
I am aware that game-streaming platforms such as the one offered by G are highly sensitive 
to network conditions. They need fast and stable network connections to work properly. 
With a game-streaming service, the game itself is being played on a computer in a 
datacentre away from the players homes. Data needs to be sent and received by both the 
computer in the datacentre and the players using their devices at home, to ensure that the 
players see the effects of their controller inputs on the screen of whichever device they are 
using. The kind of problems Miss K has reported tend to occur when there are delays or 
losses in the data being transmitted from one point to another. There is a long list of factors 
which could cause this, and not all of them would be on Gs side of the equation. 
Factors such as weak or inconsistent connections to a wireless router; radio interference; the 
speed of the internet connection and how many people are using it (and for what type of 
use); congestion on the internet service providers network; and even the speed at which the 
television displaying the picture can process information, can all contribute to problems. 
Other potential things which could cause connectivity issues are referred to on an extensive 
troubleshooting page on Gs website. Miss K has suggested that the fact that 
troubleshooting guides exist means the product is bad. I can understand that point of view 
but I dont think it necessarily follows that because such articles and guides exist, the 
product must be bad. In my experience, troubleshooting guides are common in the 
technology arena, especially when networks are involved. Given the large number of factors 
which could cause problems which Ive referred to above, I dont find this surprising, and it 
doesnt necessarily mean that the product itself is bad. So I dont think I can say that the 
existence of articles and guides on how to improve a persons experience with Gs game 
streaming service means that the devices and content arent fit for purpose, or that the 
service itself isnt being delivered with reasonable care and skill.
I think Miss K has expressed the problems very clearly, but the difficulty that I have with the 
evidence is the same that our investigator had: it isnt specific enough and doesnt show how 
severe any issues which Miss Ks nephews experienced were. Some degree of latency is to 
be expected with all online gaming, but I dont know how bad the latency or lag was when 
Miss Ks nephews were using the service. The reviews Miss K has provided describe the 
experience of others, and while they are evidence that some people have had problems with 
Gs game-streaming service, I would still need to see something more specific to her 
nephews (not a description of what they have said) to be satisfied that there might have 
been a breach of contract.
But even if I accept that the game streaming service didnt work, or work well, for Miss Ks 
nephews, and there was an unacceptable degree of lag, then I would still have no way of 
knowing to what extent this was caused by a problem with the equipment or services 
provided by G, or by some other factor which wasnt within Gs control. Miss K has said the 
connections her nephews used to access the service were fast super fibre and that they 
attempted to connect to Gs services from various places and got the same poor experience. 
But I dont know how fast super fibre is, or whether the quoted speeds on the connections 
being used were being achieved in practice, or if they met Gs listed requirements, or indeed 
if there were any other relevant factors involved.While I dont doubt that Miss Ks nephews found Gs game streaming service to offer a poor 
experience, based on the evidence Miss K has been able to provide, I cant say that the 
devices in the bundle, or the digital content, were not of satisfactory quality, or that the 
services provided by G were not supplied with reasonable skill and care. 
Miss K has mentioned that new games were meant to be released on the service each 
month, but this promise was broken. It appears this is something which G advertises so Ive 
investigated this point further. Having checked a history of releases on the service I can see 
Miss K is correct in that there was one month  January 2020  where no new games were 
released on the service. This month also happened to be one of the months in which the 
subscriptions included with the bundles were active. But having read the wording of Gs 
advertising carefully, I can see it actually says that new games would be made available to 
holders of Pro subscriptions each month (without having to purchase them separately). 
Having again checked the history of releases, I can see this is correct and two games were 
made available in this way to subscription holders in January 2020. So Im unable to say that 
G failed to meet its promise to release new games each month.
Overall, I dont think Miss K has advanced evidence which is specific or strong enough for 
me to be able to conclude that Virgin Money should have agreed with her claim under 
section 75 of the CCA, and I therefore dont think it needs to do any more on this point.
Chargeback
The chargeback system is a means for card providers (issuers) to dispute transactions made 
by their customers. The system is subject to rules set by the card scheme, which in Miss Ks 
case was MasterCard. The rules set out what types of scenario a chargeback can be raised 
in and what kind of evidence might be required. One such scenario, and the one most 
relevant to Miss Ks case, is where goods or services have been purchased and received, 
but they are either not as described, or defective. 
Chargebacks have no guarantee of succeeding as they can be challenged by the other side 
to the dispute (typically, the retailers bank). If a chargeback is challenged and no agreement 
is reached, then the card scheme itself can be asked to decide the matter. Although a 
consumer can ask their card issuer to attempt a chargeback, it isnt a legal right. That said, I 
would expect a card issuer to attempt a chargeback if it had a fair prospect of succeeding, 
and to handle the process in a competent way.
In Miss Ks case, Virgin Money attempted a chargeback on 27 March 2020. It was 
challenged by G, via their bank, on 5 May 2020. Its unclear what information Virgin Money  
provided as part of the chargeback, but the response from G was not a very strong 
challenge to a dispute over the description or quality of the purchased goods and services. It 
quoted out of date terms and conditions, for the wrong country, said Miss K hadnt contacted 
it when she had, and made no comment on her concerns about the product.
Based on its internal notes, it seems Virgin Money checked Gs response and decided that 
because Miss K still had the products in her possession, and had provided no evidence 
which is valid against the merchant, it wouldnt take the chargeback further. This appears to 
have not taken into account the evidence Miss K provided of her contact with G, where she 
had been attempting to return the products for a refund. The chargeback rules only required 
Miss K to attempt to return the products, not to actually return them. 
Im not convinced Virgin Money handled the chargeback in the way I would expect it to have 
done, but like our investigator I dont think its decision to decline to pursue the dispute further 
was wrong. Miss K would have needed to provide persuasive evidence that the bundles she 
purchased were not as described or defective in some way. And I find that I run into the same problems I had when considering whether or not Virgin Money should have agreed 
with Miss Ks claim under section 75 of the CCA. Unfortunately, I just dont think her 
evidence that the bundles were defective or not as described is strong or specific enough. 
I dont think Virgin Money had much prospect of successfully disputing Miss Ks purchase 
and obtaining a refund for her via the chargeback scheme, so I dont think it was wrong not 
to pursue it further.
Virgin Moneys customer service
Virgin Money has accepted its customer service was very poor. Ive reviewed the evidence 
of its contact with Miss K and I agree, but I dont think its offer of £75 compensation goes far 
enough in the circumstances. 
There appears to been a considerable degree of confusion between Virgin Moneys 
departments which has contributed to Miss K having a frustrating experience dealing with it. 
Incorrect or incomplete information appears to have been given on multiple occasions over a 
period of months and I can understand Miss Ks frustration with this. More recently, it seems 
Virgin Money has continued to write to Miss K with conflicting information about her section 
75 claim, which has caused her some further confusion.
I think compensation of £150 would more fairly reflect the level of frustration, confusion and 
annoyance caused by the way Virgin Money has handled Miss Ks dispute. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Ks complaint in part and order Clydesdale 
Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay her £150 compensation (including any amounts it 
has already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman