DRN-3203964
The complaint
Miss Y is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim made on her travel 
insurance policy.
Miss Y is being represented in her complaint. But as she is the policyholder, and for ease of 
reference, Ive referred to Miss Y throughout my decision. 
All reference to Great Lakes includes its claims handlers.
What happened
Towards the end of 2019, Miss Y booked a trip abroad between 29 February and 28 March 
2020. The trip involved travelling to multiple destinations in Asia.
Miss Y had the benefit of an annual premier multi-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten 
by Great Lakes (the policy). The policy covered the period 7 December 2019 to
6 December 2020.
As part of her trip, Miss Y had planned to travel from country I to country S on around 
24 March 2020. Whilst in country I, on 16 March 2020, country S introduced a mandatory 
quarantine period of two weeks for those whod arrived from a prescribed list of countries. 
That list included country I.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad. 
As a result, Miss Y rescheduled her original return flight home so that she was flying back to 
the UK earlier than planned and not from country S. However, when that flight was cancelled 
shortly thereafter, she booked a return flight to the UK with a different airline, leaving 
country I on 18 March 2020 and arriving back in the UK the following day.
On 23 March 2020, the FCO advised all British nationals travelling abroad to return to the 
UK. 
After Miss Y returned to the UK, she made a claim on the policy for the costs of her return 
flight (less the amount she was able to get back from the airline which cancelled her flight 
back to UK) and pre-booked accommodation in country I. 
Great Lakes ultimately declined the claim because the reason which led to Miss Ys trip 
being cut short didnt fall within the circumstances listed under the cancellation or curtailment 
section of the terms and conditions of the policy. Unhappy, she brought a complaint to our 
Service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ys complaint. As Miss Y didnt agree, her complaint has 
now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has an obligation to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its customers. It should also handle claims fairly and promptly. And it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions
The cancellation or curtailment section of the policy can be found at pages 24 to 26 of the 
policy. Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, it provides cover if a trip is cut short in 
certain, stipulated, circumstances. Miss Ys trip wasnt cut short for any of those reasons. So, 
her claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
And having looked at the remaining terms of the policy I dont think the circumstances 
leading to Miss Y cutting short her trip is covered elsewhere in the policy terms. 
Ive thought carefully about whether that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of Miss Ys case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the 
relevant law. 
Pages 47 to 50 of the policy also sets out the general exclusions which relate to all sections 
of the policy  which includes the cancellation and curtailment section. 
And clause 22 (page 49) says no section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
Any claim arising from You travelling to a country or specific area or event to which 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice) or the 
World Health Organisation (www.who.int) has advised the public not to travel.
This exclusion is also referred to in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
Miss Y was provided with when the policy was sold. The IPID provide consumers with a 
summary of important information about the policy in a straight-forward manner. This 
includes (but isnt restricted to) a summary of what is and isnt covered under the policy. And 
page 1 (entitled: are there any restrictions on cover?) says:
There is no cover to travel to a country or region where the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) has advised against travel.
I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy 
terms and conditions in limited situations. For example, if I didnt think an insurer had fairly 
and clearly signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an exclusion for 
claims for travelling against FCO advice. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to consider the claim in this particular case.
At the time Miss Y decided to cut short her trip and book return flights to begin her return to 
the UK on 18 March 2020, the FCO hadnt issued any advice for British nationals to return 
home from country I. So, I dont think Miss Y was following any advice of the FCO at the time 
of cutting short her trip 
Further, and importantly in this case, Miss Ys policy also says in the cancellation or 
curtailment section of the policy (at page 26, exclusion (o)) that theres no cover for:
 prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment of   
 the booked Trip due to government action
Ill refer to this as the prohibitive regulations exclusion.I can completely understand why Miss Y wanted to return home and, as identified by our 
investigator in her view dated 5 November 2021, there were probably a combination of 
factors which resulted in her curtailing her trip. But it doesnt necessary follow that her claim 
should be covered under the policy.
Im satisfied that the main reason which led her to cutting short her trip was the government 
action taken by country S requiring passengers arriving from country I to quarantine for 14 
days. Her flights back to the UK were booked shortly after the government of country S 
made this announcement which supports this. And the FCO advice requiring British 
nationals to return home wasnt given until after the date Miss Y returned to the UK.  
So, not only are the reasons for the curtailment of Miss Ys trip not covered as listed, insured 
events under the cancellation or curtailment section of the policy, Im satisfied that the 
prohibitive regulations exclusion would apply to the circumstances of the claim.
I know Miss Y will be very disappointed, but I dont think Great Lakes has unfairly 
concluded that her claim isnt covered under the policy. And I dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly direct Great Lakes to accept her claim.
When making this finding Ive taken into account all Miss Ys points in including what she 
says about buying the policy a long time before the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic 
and that her travel companion had their claim accepted under their travel insurance 
policy. 
However, Ive considered the individual circumstances of Miss Ys complaint, taking into 
account the terms and conditions of the policy she had the benefit of. 
The service received from Great Lakes
Miss Y also says that she tried to contact Great Lakes on a number of occasions  and 
by different methods  before taking the decision to cut short her trip and arrange flights 
back to the UK earlier than planned. 
Miss Y has provided us with evidence which supports this. Its unfortunate she wasnt 
able to make contact with a Great Lakes representative at the time and didnt receive a 
response before she cut short her trip. But Im conscious this was an unprecedented 
situation and I know that travel insurance providers were experiencing a significant uplift 
in the number of enquiries around that time. Even if Miss Y had been able to speak to a 
representative of Great Lakes, I think its unlikely that she wouldve been given an 
assurance that any claim would be covered if she decided to cut short her holiday. This 
being the case, given what Miss Y says about wanting to get return to the UK and the 
ever-decreasing number of available flights back to the UK, on the balance of 
probabilities, Im satisfied she wouldve still opted to cut short her holiday when she did. 
Great Lakes accepts in its final response letter that there were delays in responding to Miss 
Ys communications relating to her claim/complaint and that Miss Y had to chase for a 
response. As a result of the pandemic, Great Lakes said it had received an increased 
amount of calls, emails and queries which had impacted on the service it had been able to 
provide at the time. Its apologised for any inconvenience caused to Miss Y. And Im satisfied 
that an apology is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Great Lakes also accept that Miss Y was given differing reasons as to why her claim was 
declined. During a call with one of Great Lakes representatives on 16 June 2020, it accepts 
that Miss Y was told that because the policy was purchased before certain dates, there was 
no cover in place for Covid-19. Its apologised for this. I understand being given a different 
reason for the claim being declined wouldve been annoying. However, Im satisfied that an 
apology is sufficient here. The reason for declining the claim was clarified in the final response letter and although different reasons had been given, Im satisfied that Great Lakes 
acted fairly and reasonably by declining her claim.  
Miscellaneous
Miss Y is unhappy that she didnt receive an email about updating the policy to include 
Covid-19 in February 2020. However, Great Lakes didnt sell the policy to Miss Y and the 
seller in this case is responsible for the sales literature, the way in which the policy was 
sold and sending information about the policy to Miss Y  including any potential mid-
term adjustments. 
If Miss Y remains unhappy about not being given information in February 2020, shes free 
to raise a complaint with the seller in first instance, if she hasnt already done so.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ys complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss Y to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman