DRN-3111861
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H booked a holiday abroad. They were due to travel in April 2020 and return the 
following month. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office 
(FCDO) advised against all but essential travel due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The country they were due to visit closed their borders and Mr and Mrs Hs flights were 
ultimately cancelled. They were unable to get a refund or voucher for the cost of their 
accommodation. So, they claimed on their travel insurance policy.
URV declined to cover the claim on the basis that there was no cover under the policy. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H complained to our service. 
Our investigator thought URV should pay the claim outside of a strict interpretation of the 
policy terms and conditions. This was on the basis that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
Mr and Mrs H to be left in a position where they had no cover for cancelling the trip due to a 
change in FCDO advice but to also have no cover if theyd gone ahead and travelled in the 
event that it was possible for them to do so. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted our investigators opinion but URV asked an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. They said that the wording of the cancellation section was simple and clear. 
And, they also pointed out that the policy wording had been drafted prior to Covid-19 being a 
known issue. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page one it says:
The following summary does not contain the full policy terms and conditions of the 
contract which can be found in your policy documentation. The agreed sums insured 
are specified in your policy schedule. 
Page 12 of the policy sets out the general conditions and exclusions applying to the policy. It 
excludes: 
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FC) or regulatory authority in a country to/from 
which you are travelling has advised against all or all but essential travel.
On page 15 of the policy the section entitled Policy A: your Pre Travel Policy sets out the 
circumstances under which URV will pay for pre-paid costs, which cannot be recovered from 
any other source. These are if the policyholder is unable to travel because;
The death, bodily injury, illness, disease or complications of pregnancy of you, any 
person you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, any person you have 
arranged to stay with, your close relative, your close business associate
 
You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance
Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel 
with 
  You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance 
Services or employee of a Government Department and have your/their authorised 
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons provided that the 
cancellation could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you 
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip 
The police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due to 
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft explosion, storm, flood, 
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft. 
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: 
Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential 
travel to the destination they were due to travel to. Thats not something that is 
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed 
insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, 
I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr and Mrs H had travelled 
abroad theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs H.   
Mr and Mrs H would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order 
to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that 
this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. 
So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs H and URV. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs H would have purchased the 
policy they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO 
guidance changed after theyd bought it. 
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct 
them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman