DRN-4334381
The complaint
Ms F complains Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Thesis Servicing (Thesis) 
have ignored her requests for her loan to be written off and how to be communicated with. 
She says as a result of that she feels harassed and bullied.
What happened
In October 1996 Ms F took out a loan with another company. The loan has since been 
acquired by Thesis. Ms F says Thesis have asked for unrealistic information from her doctor 
in order to write off her loan. And she says theyve been contacting her by phone, when 
shes explicitly asked them to only contact by email because of the stress it causes her. She 
says Thesis are ignoring the Equality Act 2010.
Thesis thanked Ms F for providing a copy of a letter from her doctor but said unfortunately 
this wasnt enough for them to write off the loan itself. They said the terms of the account 
(quoted to Ms F by our Investigator) says the debt could be written off if a doctors letter is 
provided which says the borrower can show the lender that he gets a disability related 
benefit and because of his disability is permanently unfit for work. Thesis went on to say 
theyd need to see a letter from a medical professional confirming her medical condition, and 
as a result of the condition she is permanently unfit for work. They said shed also be 
required to show evidence of the benefits she received in relation to her medical condition.
Unhappy with this Ms F asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so but 
found Thesis hadnt done anything wrong.
Ms F was unhappy with this, and said she felt we hadnt taken into account the Equality Act 
2010. As she didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am grateful to Ms F for explaining in detail her circumstances, and I am sorry to hear how 
difficult things have been for her. I have looked carefully at everything shes told us and 
taken that into account when deciding the outcome of her case. I should explain I cant make 
direct findings of law. So, while Ill take into account all relevant regulations, industry 
standards and law into consideration I cant make a finding whether Ms F has been 
discriminated against or harassed as only a court of law can decide whether legislation has 
been breached. But I will consider all of that information to decide whether Ms F has been 
treated fairly by Thesis.
Loan write off
I can see Ms F has said shes given Thesis enough information in law for them to write off 
her debt. Shes not quoted a specific law, so Im not entirely certain on what she means by 
this. But, our role is to consider things on a fair and reasonable basis, taking into account 
what the law says.
As Ive said, Im not certain by what Ms F is referring to, so Ive assessed things on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
At this moment in time, it seems Ms F does legitimately have a loan with Thesis which shed 
be required to repay whenever shes not in a deferment period. Given that, I cant 
reasonably say they should just write off the debt.
I do understand a big part of Ms Fs point here is that her doctor has provided a letter to 
explain her medical conditions. Ive read this letter, but it doesnt satisfy the requirements of 
getting her loan written off with Thesis.
As Thesis explained to Ms F, in order to write off the debt shed need to have medical 
evidence shes unlikely to ever return to work, and evidence of her disability benefits. Both 
Thesis and our Investigator provided her with a link which makes clear what the 
requirements for a loan to be written off are. 
The letter from Ms Fs doctor doesnt contain that information. I dont think Thesis are acting 
unfairly by not writing it off due to this letter.
I have noted Ms Fs comments that these are unrealistic requirements, and this is 
discrimination and not taking into account the Equality Act 2010.
I have, sadly, seen examples of people who are so ill they would meet this criteria and have 
had their loans written off. I dont say this to diminish Ms Fs conditions at all, but only to say 
in my experience these arent entirely unrealistic expectations. So, overall, I dont think 
Thesis should be required to write off the debt based on the evidence they have been 
provided with so far.
Bullying and harassment
Ms F has explicitly said she doesnt want Thesis to call her because of the effect it has on 
her mental health  and says they keep contacting her asking her to call them.
Our Investigator established we could consider this element of Ms Fs complaint back to 
November 2016, which I agree with  so Ive done so.
Ive looked carefully at all of the correspondence Ms F has received. I cant make a finding 
shes been harassed, as thatd be a legal finding. But I can say that, having looked at all of 
the correspondence, I dont think the level of contact has been unreasonable  and Ive not 
seen any contact which I thought was for anything other than standard reasons. The majority 
of contacts are when Ms F has contacted Thesis regarding a complaint or a deferment of the 
loan itself. And the method of contact has been, for some time, email only. 
In their emails to Ms F Thesis do include an email address for her to reply to. I can see Ms F 
has explicitly said she wants Thesis to write to her and tell her up front what they want to talk 
to her about in the email  rather than the general email she receives. Thesis dont do that 
and have said the reason is because this is their standard method of getting in touch with 
people. And they offer the option of their customers phoning or emailing on each occasion.
I can see that itd be beneficial for Thesis to amend their communications with Ms F so, 
when first contacting her regarding an issue theyve not been in recent contact about, they 
explain what the reason for that is. But I think Thesis have acted fairly overall.
SummaryMs F says she feels Thesis have discriminated against her and ignored the 
Equality Act 2010 given the problems shes experienced. I do appreciate shes very 
frustrated and upset but having looked at all the evidence I dont think Thesis have done so. 
Nor do I think Thesis have acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope it helps Ms F to know 
someone independent and impartial has looked into things. If she remains concerned, then 
as our Investigator has explained she can take the matter to court.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman