DRN-3967031
Complaint
Mr K has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
rejected his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr K bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2016. The purchase was 
funded with a payment from Mr Ks Tesco credit card, and that business is therefore liable 
for the acts and omissions of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr K 
alleges that the supplier misled Mr K into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ks complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to persuade her that the system had been mis-represented to Mr K so 
she didnt think the complaint should be upheld in Mr Ks favour. 
Mr K disagreed. He said (through his representatives) that the sale was conducted based on 
verbal representations and reiterated that Mr K was told the system would be self-funding 
within 7 to 10 years.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
Mr K has recently provided additional testimony which Ive also taken into account. 
In my provisional decision of 1 February 2023, I set out why I minded to not uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Tesco did not have anything further to add but Mr K and his 
representative made some additional comments which I will address below. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr K paid for the system with a credit card, Tesco agrees that section 75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Mr K could claim against Tesco, the creditor, for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr K and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Tesco.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, currently, I do not uphold this complaint.
Firstly Id like to explain that that neither Tesco nor Mr K have been able to provide any 
paperwork from the time of the sale. Where there is such limited evidence, I have to make a 
decision based on the available evidence  that includes Mr Ks testimony. 
Mr K (through his representative) said in his letter of claim that he was led to believe that he 
would recover the purchase price of the system within 7 to10 years due to the payments he 
would receive from the Feed in Tariff (FIT). Mr K alleges that he relied on the 
misrepresentation and bought the system on that basis. He said the sales advisor went 
through a presentation with him and this lasted approximately an hour. He added that he 
was told he needed to agree to the purchase immediately as the FIT rate would be changing 
so in order to qualify for the current FIT rate  he needed to agree to the purchase straight 
away. He said this was part of a high-pressure sales tactic used to persuade him to 
purchase the system. 
Mr K has recently provided more testimony and I think it would be helpful to set that out. He 
says he saw an advert for the solar panels and went to the suppliers offices to have a look 
at them. He then says the supplier arranged for a salesperson to visit him  the salesperson 
was there for about half an hour, looked at the roof and discussed the size of the system he 
could have. He added that no facts and figures were ever written down and given to him, he 
was only given a sales contract for the purchase (although he can no longer find this 
document). He does recall the sales advisor saying he would get his money back within 5-10 
years due to a combination of the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. He adds that 
while he paid for the system on his credit card, he was expecting an inheritance at some 
point, which he was aware he could use to pay off the credit card balance. 
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Ks testimony bearing in mind this is the main evidence 
available in this case. But having done so, like our investigator, Im not satisfied that the 
system was mis-represented to Mr K on the basis it would be self-funding or that Mr K relied 
on a statement like this and this was the main reason he purchased the system. Ill explain 
why. 
It seems to me that Mr K already had a significant interest in purchasing the system, he 
didnt just respond to an advert, he visited their offices and agreed to the purchase after a 
relatively short sales meeting. It appears Mr K had a strong inclination towards purchasing 
the solar panel system and sought them out. So Im not persuaded that the supplier needed 
to upsell the benefits associated with it in the same way we have seen in other cases.
Usually, during a sales meeting, a supplier would discuss a customers circumstances with 
them, such as how much time they spend at home during the day, their electricity usage etc 
 and work out how these solar panels would benefit that particular customer. They would 
then estimate the benefits that particular customer could expect to achieve in comparison to 
the cost  and then possibly infer that the benefits received would cover the purchase price 
(or perhaps the monthly payments if bought using a loan), during the meeting in order to 
convince consumers to purchase the system.  
However, Im not satisfied this is what likely happened during Mr Ks sales meeting. Mr K 
mentioned no presentation and cannot recall being given any facts and figures in relation to the performance of the system. He also added that the meeting lasted only about half an 
hour and part of that time was spent looking at the roof confirming he could have the solar 
panels. I dont think its likely that the salesperson had the time to discuss his own personal 
circumstances with him and work out estimates in the way weve seen in other cases. 
In order for me to uphold this case, I would need to be satisfied that the sales person did 
more than make generalist comments about how well these solar panels usually perform 
over a period of 5 to10 years  or that they promoted the system to him - thats the nature of 
selling items. 
Id need to be satisfied that the sales person made the specific misrepresentation to Mr K, 
that his system would be self-funding either within 7-10 years as set out in his letter of claim 
or 5-10 years as he now says and he relied on this misrepresentation and bought the system 
on that basis. Overall, based on what Ive seen, Im afraid, Im not satisfied that this is the 
case. 
Based on Mr Ks testimony, Im not satisfied that the salesperson made any specific 
misrepresentations to him regarding the benefits his system might produce. Even if they did, 
Im not satisfied he relied on this and that this was the main reason he bought the system. It 
seems to me that Mr K sought the system out and bought it after a relatively short sales 
meeting. He also had a plan to cover the cost of the system (his inheritance), so he was not 
reliant on the benefits covering the cost of the system.
I would add that FIT tariff rates change frequently beyond the control of the supplier and the 
tariff a customer will be placed on depends on several factors. So while I understand Mr K 
may be disappointed with the eventual rate he was placed on (and I appreciate the 
significant disappointment he feels about this issue), I dont think its likely that the supplier 
guaranteed any FIT rates to him. And given his inclination towards purchasing the system., 
Im also not satisfied that its likely he was subjected to high pressure sales tactics to 
convince him to buy the system. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Ks testimony, but each case is decided on the individual merits 
of that case. On balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Mr W and his representatives disagreed with my provisional decision for the following 
reasons: 
The representative explained that I had given no consideration to the verbal 
representations made to Mr K during the sales meeting and they reiterated that he 
was told the system would pay for itself within 7 years. 
The representative said that Mr K should not be penalized for trying to make an 
informed decision by visiting the suppliers office. 
They added that while the system might be performing in line with the contract and 
therefore as expected  Mr Ks complaint is that he was told verbally that the financial 
benefits he received would be sufficient for the system to pay for itself. 
Finally, Mr K would not have bought the system if he had known it would increase his 
outgoings. The inheritance was a fallback in case he couldnt make payments to the 
credit card. 
Id like to re-assure Mr K and his representatives that I have thought carefully about Mr Ks 
testimony and appreciate his strength of feeling regarding this matter. However, for the same 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that the system was 
misrepresented to him in the way he says it was. I would add that Ive thought about Mr Ks representatives concerns about him visiting the suppliers office and his inheritance being a 
fall-back. But the nature of how this sale came to be, including Mr Ks interest in the solar 
panels, his efforts in seeking out information about it, and the relatively short sales meeting 
is relevant evidence. And the fact that he had plans in place in case he couldnt make the 
payments is also relevant, bearing in mind that he says he bought the system believing it 
would be self-funding. 
I appreciate that Mr K will be disappointed with my findings. But having reviewed the 
complaint again in its entirety, including Mr K and his representatives most recent 
comments, I find no reason to depart from the findings set out above in my provisional 
decision. So Im still satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the 
supplier that induced Mr K to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no 
other reason to uphold this complaint. So overall, Im satisfied that Tesco did not act 
unreasonably or unfairly when declining the claim.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman