DRN-2447476
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly declined Mr Cs 
travel insurance claim and caused unnecessary delays.
What happened
Mr C suffered a heart attack whilst on holiday in August 2019. He was taken to a public 
hospital and told he required emergency surgery. So he made a claim for medical assistance 
through his travel insurance policy. 
IPA began to provide initial assistance and Mr C was transferred to a private hospital where 
he underwent surgery. However, after receiving his GP medical records, IPA declined Mr Cs 
claim and said hed mispresented his position by not disclosing pre-existing conditions. IPA 
said it wouldnt have offered the policy had it not been for his misrepresentation, and it made 
the decision to decline the claim, cancel the policy and return the premiums paid. 
Mrs C and Mr C complained. But IPA maintained its decision, so they brought their complaint 
to this service. 
Mrs C and Mr C told this service that IPA had declined the claim unfairly. They said Mr Cs 
pre-existing conditions werent related to his heart attack, and his failure to disclose them 
had been a genuine misunderstanding. They raised concerns about Mr C being moved to a 
private hospital and the way he was later treated there. And they said IPA had caused 
delays in transferring Mr C to that hospital in the first place, which had put his life in danger. 
Mrs C and Mr C also said that IPA should have told them it was declining the claim sooner, 
so that Mr C could have gone to a public hospital and mitigated some of his costs.
Our investigator advised that we couldnt consider the actions of the private hospital, but did 
recommend that Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint about IPA be upheld in part.
Our investigator didnt think IPA had acted unreasonably in declining the claim and 
cancelling the policy  because the available evidence showed Mr C had misrepresented his 
position when asked about pre-existing conditions. And she thought that IPA had acted on 
the advice of Mr Cs treating doctor when transferring him to a private hospital. However, she 
did think IPA had caused an unnecessary delay in transferring Mr C to the private hospital, 
and recommended it paid £750 in compensation to reflect the impact that delay had on Mrs 
C and Mr C.
Mrs C and Mr C agreed with our investigators recommendations. But they also explained 
theyd not received the refund of premiums yet. 
IPA did not agree with the recommendations. It said it hadnt had the opportunity to consider 
the delay aspect of Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint and felt the hospital should have transferred 
Mr C if his treatment was urgent. So as no agreement was reached the matter was passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C and Mr C have raised a number of concerns about the way the private hospital treated 
them once IPA had made it known that it wasnt accepting liability for Mr Cs claim. I 
appreciate the issues they have raised in relation to this, and I can see this was a cause of 
both upset and concern for them. But as our investigator rightly explained, this service is 
unable to consider the actions of the hospital itself.
Mr C has acknowdged he didnt disclose certain parts of his medical history. But in adding 
context to this has said this was unintentional, and he thought the questions being asked of 
him solely related to what he thought were considered more serious health conditions. The 
question Mr C was asked read as follows:
Within the last 5 years, has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered from any 
medical condition (medical or psychological disease, sickness, condition, illness or injury) 
that has required prescribed medication or treatment including surgery, tests or 
investigations? 
Under the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2020 (CIDRA) Mr C 
had a duty to take reasonable not to make a misrepresentation when answering this 
question. And in the event of a misrepresentation occurring, IPA had remedial action that it 
could take under CIDRA too.
Mr C answered no to the above. But as both parties are aware, his medical records showed 
an x-ray following knee pain in 2018, and both a nasendoscopy for acid reflux and a 
prescription for a skin problem in 2019. I appreciate what Mr C assumed this question 
related to and acknowledge that he has said his undisclosed conditions werent linked to his 
heart attack. But the question he was asked was clear and specific, and based on his 
medical history I too think he should have answered yes in response to it. By not doing so, 
Mr C did misrepresent his position, albeit I accept he did not deliberately intend to do so. 
IPA has demonstrated that if Mr C had answered yes, it would not have offered the policy it 
did. And in line with the permitted remedial action available, it was entitled to avoid the policy 
and return the premiums paid towards it. 
Separate to the declinature of the claim, Mrs C and Mr C have concerns about issues they 
faced as a result of the location of the private hospital  for example difficulties in Mrs C 
being able to visit Mr C along with other members of their family. 
As our investigator previously highlighted, the public hospital where Mr C was initially seen 
informed IPA that Mr Cs treating doctor prefers his coronary angio patients to have this 
carried out at the [private hospital name provided]. 
So IPAs decision to move Mr C to that particular facility does appear to have been based on 
the advice of his treating doctor. And I cant fairly conclude that it acted unreasonably in 
following that advice.
I am aware that IPA disagrees with delays being considered as part of this complaint, but 
concerns about delays were set out to IPA during the claim, and I note that IPA did at one 
point acknowledge it should have considered those delays too. So given this, and that a 
complaint is defined as any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, I am satisfied that 
IPA had the opportunity to consider this aspect of Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint and I will go 
on to address it.Mrs C and Mr C have set out quite clearly that they think IPA should have told them it was 
declining the claim sooner. They say that had IPA done so, they would have been able to 
take Mr C to a different hospital. And would have in turn been able to reduce his medical 
costs.
I appreciate Mrs C and Mr Cs frustration in relation to this, but it is common practice for an 
insurer to seek supporting information when validating a claim. IPA attempted to do that by 
requesting further information from Mr Cs GP. And given Mr Cs claim related to medical 
assistance I dont think this was an unreasonable step for it to take.
IPA received the information from Mr Cs GP on 23 August 2019, and having had the 
opportunity to review it communicated its decision the following day. So I dont think there 
was a delay in the claim declinature being communicated. And I note Mr C had already been 
transferred to and treated in the private hospital by this point. 
It is unclear as to why IPA was unable to authorise the transfer of Mr C sooner than it did 
though. I appreciate IPA says the hospital should have completed the transfer earlier as the 
matter was urgent. But IPAs system notes show it had advised it was awaiting a booking 
invoice before authorising the transfer, and that it was aware the hospital was waiting for IPA 
to authorise the transfer too. 
Mr C was transferred the day after IPA had stated that it needed the booking invoice 
however. And at that point the booking invoice had not been received. So without any 
consistent information as to why IPA did not transfer Mr C sooner, I am unable to conclude 
that it did not cause a delay here.
I cannot, of course, know for certain whether Mr C would have been operated on earlier had 
the transfer happened sooner. But given what did happen when he was transferred  namely 
that he was operated on within an hour of his arrival  I think it likely that his surgery would 
have happened earlier had the transfer taken place sooner. 
Mrs C and Mr C say this delay put Mr Cs life in danger. Again, I havent been provided with 
any evidence to substantiate this. But I very much appreciate that Mr C was in an intensive 
care unit and in need of urgent treatment at the point IPA was notified of his claim. So in 
view of this, I accept that any delay in progressing his transfer and subsequent treatment 
would have be a cause of great distress, worry, and concern for him. 
I am also mindful that Mrs C was covered under the policy at the time it was in force and was 
often the one dealing with the claim on Mr Cs behalf. So I also accept that the above delay 
would have been a cause for great concern for her too  especially as she was at times the 
one having to contact IPA for updates and had been asked to provide information which 
shed already made available. 
So, given the impact IPA actions had on both Mrs C and Mr C and the severity of Mr Cs 
health at the time, I think £750 in compensation is a fair reflection of the impact caused in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
Inter Partner Assistance SA should put things right by:
refunding the premiums paid for the policy if it has not already done so
paying £750 in compensation to recognise the impact its actions had on both Mrs C 
and Mr CMy final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Inter Partner Assistance SA should 
put things right in the way I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman