DRN-4064167
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F complain that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has unfairly declined a home 
insurance claim after their home was damaged by fire.
Mr F and Mrs F are being represented by a third party but for ease of reading I will refer only 
to Mr F in my decision.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr F said hed fallen asleep on the settee whilst watching the television. But 
awoke feeling sick and dizzy, he said he found an armchair was on fire. He said as he 
rushed outside, he fell injuring his back. The fire brigade attended, and the fire was put out. 
Mr F said he didnt know the cause of the fire but thought as he was a smoker, he might 
have dropped a cigarette or some ash. 
Mr F told his insurer HDI about the fire the next day, but as it was a bank holiday, they 
couldnt arrange alternative accommodation for a few days. Mr F said he and his family 
didnt have any clothes or toiletries. He said despite being injured he had to arrange for hotel 
accommodation for him and his family. Subsequently Mr F said HDI accepted his claim and 
made a £2,000 initial payment. But he regularly had to chase for his accommodation costs. 
And later HDI declined his claim as they said the armchair could only have caught fire and 
sustained the flames if it had been started by a naked flame. Their forensic reports didnt 
accept Mr Fs account of his smoking causing the fire. They determined the fire was caused 
by a deliberate act. Mr F complained to HDI saying hed:
concerns about how HDI had handled his claim in the immediate aftermath of the fire,
the process of finding alternative accommodation, and
the decision to decline the claim. 
HDI said theyd looked to help Mr F in finding suitable alternative accommodation. They 
made an initial payment of £2,000 and subsequently a monthly allowance of £1,000. HDI 
said their forensic tests showed that a cigarette smouldering couldnt cause the flaming 
combustion that caused the damage to the armchair. They said their tests showed the fire 
damage was most likely caused by an open flame ignition, such as a gas lighter. They said 
they declined Mr Fs claim under the exclusion in his policy, "Any loss, damage, bodily injury 
or liability caused deliberately, maliciously, wilfully, recklessly by you, your family, lodgers, 
paying guests, tenants or employees. HDI acknowledged there had been some unnecessary 
delays and offered Mr F £500 to compensate him for this. And said they wouldnt seek 
reimbursement of any without prejudice payments theyd already made.
Mr F wasnt happy with HDIs response about his claim being declined. He said that hed put 
forward the possibility that falling ash had caused the fire, as he didnt know how it had 
begun. And that HDI hadnt considered other possible ways the fire could have started. He 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that the fire brigade report referred to the incident as a standard house 
fire that didnt require further investigation. And Mr F had shown there was paper and other 
inflammable materials around the armchair that could have caught fire. He didnt think HDI 
had acted fairly and reasonably in applying the policy exclusion, and asked HDI to reassess 
Mr Fs claim. HDI didnt accept our investigators outcome and asked for an ombudsman to 
decide.
Mr F hasnt What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What remains in dispute is HDIs decision to decline Mr Fs insurance claim. So, it is this that 
I will consider in my decision. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened or not considering the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances. Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not for me to determine the cause of the fire, or even the outcome for the claim. Rather 
its for me to consider whether HDI acted fairly and reasonably in assessing and determining 
the claim. In this case the determination was that HDI declined Mr Fs claim. 
HDI, like many insurers, doesnt agree to offer cover for anything and everything that may
occur. Rather, as their policy explains, they offer cover against damage caused by a list of
certain events or perils. The  policy also contains various exclusions to cover, where if
damage is caused or affected by situations subject to the exclusions, HDI wont be liable
for the claim. 
Its for HDI to show, where they decline a claim based on an exclusion, that its most likely 
that the exclusion in question applies in the circumstances of the claim and can, therefore, 
fairly and reasonably be relied on. HDI after carrying out their investigation which included 
forensic tests said theyd found on the balance of probabilities; the cause of the fire was an 
armchair catching fire. The forensic tests showed the armchair wouldnt ignite from a 
smouldering cigarette but would from a naked flame, such as a gas lighter. And concluded it 
would have had to have been intentionally applied for the flaming combustion of the 
armchair. As  Mr F was the only person in the house at the time of the fire, they decided hed 
deliberately started the fire. The exclusion in question here that HDI applied in declining Mr 
Fs claim is:
"Any loss, damage, bodily injury or liability caused deliberately, maliciously, wilfully, 
recklessly by you, your family, lodgers, paying guests, tenants or employees.
Ive looked closely at HDIs handling of Mr Fs claim, and the exclusion theyve applied to 
decline it to see if theyve acted within the terms and conditions of his policy and treated him 
fairly.
Fire brigade report
Ive looked at the fire incident report this shows that the time between the incident and 
discovery was under five minutes. And that the call to the fire brigade was immediate. 
The report also says the cause of the fire was accidental, with the main cause given as 
Careless handling - due to careless disposal". The report says the source of the ignition 
was Matches and candles-matches. The report also said Mr F was overcome by gas, 
smoke or toxic fumes, asphyxiation.
The incident report has been further expanded on in a later statement that said: main area of the damage was in the corner of the room, in the vicinity of an armchair. When 
the fire was extinguished there was significant fire damage to that room and it was not 
possible to say what the cause was.
It was explained that it wasnt known why matches and candles had been mentioned in the 
original report as Mr F hadnt said anything about this or about any possible cause of the fire. 
The statement went on to say:
We did not smell accelerants or see anything else which might raise concerns about how 
the fire started or spread. I did not request that fire investigation officers attend. It seemed 
like a standard house fire.
The statement also says that Mr F appeared confused.
Fire investigation summary report
In September 2021 HDI instructed a fire investigator to determine the origin and cause of the 
fire at Mr Fs home. The report says:
There are a number of possible causes which may have led to the ignition and spread of 
this fire."
And lists these as being abnormal electrical activity, discarded cigarette igniting combustible 
material and deliberate ignition.
The report considered all three elements, the first was discounted as there wasnt any 
evidence of an electrical device or activity being the cause of the fire. But said it was 
possible that a:
smouldering cigarette end had come into sustained contact with suitable ignitable material I 
am unable to rule this out as a cause of this fires uncontrolled development."
And stated there wasnt any physical evidence of the fire being caused deliberately 
remaining on the scene. The report referred to:
 evidence of Mr F being in financial difficulty and witness reports of a domestic disturbance
Forensic report
Ive looked at the findings of the forensic report, a chair seat, back rest pad, cushions and 
loose seat cover from the armchair were recovered from the premises and used in the tests. 
The test used a smouldering cigarette to see whether this would bring about flaming 
combustion. But it didnt, flaming combustion was only caused to the seat pad and cover by 
the use of a naked flame. The report suggests that the naked flame could be brought about 
using a gas lighter. 
Mr Fs testimony throughout has been that he didnt know the cause but conjectured that as 
he smokes it might have been from a cigarette. He has said that he and his wife only ever 
smoked outside the front door, which the previous reports confirmed as there were several 
cigarette ends visible outside this door. Mr F said the cause of the fire could possibly have 
been ash falling from a cigarette or a dropped cigarette as he went from his front door, 
through to the back garden to quieten his dogs. His route would have taken him passed the 
armchair and through the kitchen.Mr F has also said that behind the armchair that caught fire is a desk where receipts, 
invoices and other paperwork is kept, and that his wife sometimes rests paperwork on the 
armchair before putting it into the desk. I can see that there is evidence of combustible 
material such as paper being present in the vicinity of the armchair that caught fire. And from 
pictures of the armchair there is evidence of fire damage at the base as well as the arms and 
back.
The exclusion term used by HDI covers, a deliberate, malicious, wilful, reckless act done by 
Mr F or family members. Mr F was alone at home at the time. HDI declined Mr Fs claim as 
they considered the fire had been started deliberately. HDI based their decision on the 
forensic reports and information regarding Mr Fs finances and from a neighbours report of a 
recent domestic disturbance.
I think HDI has placed emphasis on Mr Fs financial circumstances and the comments from 
his neighbours. But Mr F disputes his neighbours account and has said there was discord 
between them which I think places some doubt on the neighbours account of what 
happened the night of the fire. The neighbour suggests Mr F was intoxicated, but as shown 
by the fire report, Mr F was overcome by fumes and was confused. Mr F has also clarified 
the details about his financial circumstances which were accepted by HDI. And Ive noted 
that Mr F said theyd recently had a new kitchen fitted at the property. So, I dont think HDI 
has shown enough evidence to conclude Mr F had any cause to deliberately set fire to his 
own home. 
I wouldnt expect an insurer to do endless tests to make absolutely sure of their findings. But 
while the forensic tests show the armchair could have only ignited from a naked flame being 
applied. I havent seen any evidence to show whether a naked flame could have been 
brought about in another way. For example, combustible material, such as paper that was or 
could have been present near to the armchair which could have ignited from a smouldering 
cigarette or falling ash. 
So, Im not satisfied that on the balance of probabilities the only cause of the fire was the 
armchair being deliberately set alight. I dont think the forensic report has discounted other 
sources of combustible material that could have led to there being a naked flame that 
accidentally caused the fire. 
Putting things right
As Im not satisfied HDI has applied the exclusion term they used to decline Mr Fs claim 
fairly and reasonably. They should reconsider his claim.My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and directing HDI Global Specialty SE to reconsider Mr F and 
Mrs Fs claim under their insurance cover (subject to the terms, limits and conditions).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman