DRN-3600126
The complaint
Mr B complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has unfairly refused to
meet a claim hes made on his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was in the armed forces, and holds an insurance policy his employer made available to
employees. It covers him for certain accidents and injuries, and provides a cash benefit
which varies dependent upon the severity of an injury.
In both 2016 and 2018 Mr B suffered a non-freezing cold injury (NFCI) whilst on duty. He
recovered from the 2016 injury, but since the incident in 2018 has had problems with both
his hands and feet. His injuries are such that he was discharged from the armed forces in
March 2021.
Mr Bs policy provides cover for both his inability to continue in his normal work and for
permanent NFCI. When he submitted a claim to AIG, it made a payment for the former. It
says, however, that Mr B must wait for five years (until late 2023) before it will acknowledge
that his NFCI has left him permanently disabled.
Mr B complained about this, saying hed submitted a medical report that described his
disability as permanent, so the claim should be met now. AIG said that an earlier report from
an expert in the field of NFCI had said that recovery might take five years  so it wouldnt
consider meeting the claim until then. It did offer to share the latest medical report Mr B
obtained with the same expert  but Mr B doesnt think thats fair.
When Mr B asked this service asked us to review his complaint, our investigator, in
summary, thought AIG acted reasonably when it relied upon the medical report to insist on a
five year period before re-considering Mr Bs claim. So he didnt think AIG need do more
than it had.
I issued my provisional findings in late October. In summary, I said I didnt think AIG had 
been fair to Mr B. I looked at all the reports that had been produced, and said that I thought 
the most persuasive one was the most recent one sent in by Mr B. That said his condition is 
most likely permanent and that although he might be able to mitigate the effects of the NFCI 
he wouldnt fully recover. Mr B had been examined by the writer of this recent report.
I thought the reports AIG had relied upon seemed to be inconsistent in parts  and that the 
latest one wasnt produced after a physical examination.
I also thought the extent of Mr Bs injury/disease was oversimplified by AIG  in that it 
seemed to believe all Mr B had to do was stay warm to manage his condition. I thought the 
effect of his injury were much more far-reaching than that, and that Mr B was struggling with 
day to day living as a result of it.
I said my initial conclusions were that AIG shouldnt make Mr B wait until either five years 
had passed or hed reached his optimal physical recovery. That was because the report I 
was most persuaded by said his condition is permanent  and also because there has been 
no suggestion of what an optimal recovery might be. I thought AIG should meet Mr Bs 
claim now, and it shouldnt be a partial payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B didnt have anything more for me to consider.
AIG responded to say that it had relied upon an opinion from an NFCI expert and thought 
that held more weight. Ive already explained why I thought this particular report was less 
persuasive than the one Mr B sent in  and AIG hasnt provided any more evidence to 
support its position. So that hasnt changed my provisional findings.
AIG says that the report I found more persuasive doesnt say Mr Bs condition is permanent. 
But it does say its likely to be permanent given that theres been little improvement after 
three years. I think its fair to ask AIG to accept that conclusion.
Finally AIG says Mr Bs condition doesnt meet its definition of loss  which is permanent and 
irrecoverable loss of use. That wasnt mentioned in the final response letter AIG sent Mr B, 
which only (in summary) said AIG wanted to wait five years before assessing the claim. As I 
said above, Im persuaded by the report from Dr H that Mr Bs condition is most likely 
permanent. The fact that he might be able to mitigate some of the effects of the NFCI 
doesnt mean he hasnt suffered a permanent loss of use  it means there are ways he can 
adapt his lifestyle to take that into account. Mr B has explained how hes affected day to day 
by the NFCI. Hes told us how he cant walk further than is required by an average 
supermarket trip, is in constant pain and suffers depression. He needs daily medication, 
which is outlined in the report he sent in. I dont have any reason to doubt what Mr B said, 
given that all the medical reports agree he has a NFCI, and I think hes demonstrated a 
significant loss compared to the active lifestyle he previously enjoyed whilst serving in the 
armed forces. 
Taking AIGs points together, they dont persuade me I should change my initial findings.
 Putting things right
AIG should now put things right by meeting Mr Bs claim for loss of use caused by a NFCI, 
subject to any other relevant terms and conditions..
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint.  American International Group UK Limited should 
now meet Mr Bs claim as described above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman