DRN-2414472
The complaint
Mr H complains that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group mis-sold a rent protection 
insurance policy to him.
What happened
Mr H took out a policy through Adrian Flux providing landlords legal expenses and rent 
guarantee cover in 2015. He subsequently renewed the policy each year. 
When the policy was renewed in 2018 the legal cover was now underwritten by a different 
insurer.
In June 2019 Mr H advised Adrian Flux that he wanted to make a claim on the policy. This 
was referred to the insurer but the claim was declined. 
Mr H then complained that the policy had been mis-sold. He said the new insurer didnt 
provide the same cover as the previous one and he wasnt told about this when he renewed 
the policy. Adrian Flux didnt uphold the complaint so Mr H brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said: 
when Mr H first took out the policy in 2015 he didnt ask any specific questions about 
the cover for rent arrears;
the renewal documents were sent to him in 2018 and he was advised to check the 
documents carefully and contact Adrian Flux if he had any questions;
this wasnt an advised sale so Adrian Fluxs duties were limited to providing clear, fair 
and not misleading information which enabled Mr H to make a decision, and it had 
done this;
although Mr H was unhappy with the way his claim was dealt with, Adrian Flux wasnt 
responsible for that.
Mr H disagreed. Hes raised a number of points including:
the new policy didnt cover rent where a landlord has served a notice on the tenant, 
which is absurd and isnt included in any other policy;
he switched to another policy as soon as he realised this;
he was never sent notice of the new policy or change in terms in 2018;
the relevant guidance says a firm should take reasonable steps to ensure a customer 
only buys a policy under which he is eligible to claim, and he wasnt eligible to claim 
on this policy.
The investigator considered these but didnt change her position. She also said even if there 
had been an error, his claim wouldnt have been covered in any event as it would either have 
been a pre-existing issue, or would have been notified late. So Mr H has requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This wasnt an advised sale. In these circumstances, Adrian Fluxs duty was to provide 
enough information in advance of the sale to enable Mr H to make an informed choice about 
whether to take out the policy. The relevant rules also say any information provided should 
be clear, fair and not misleading. These rules apply both at the original sale of a policy and 
at renewal, where a new contract is entered into. 
The key point in this complaint is that Mr H says the policy he got in 2018 was different from 
the cover hed had up to then and Adrian Flux should have told him about the difference but 
failed to do that. So thats what I have focused on.
Both policies provided cover for rent owed to Mr H by his tenant, and the costs of taking 
legal action against his tenant in certain circumstances. But when he tried to claim on the 
new policy he was told the policy only covered him up to expiry of any notice to bring the 
monthly periodic tenancy to an end. Hed served notice on his tenant and obtained a court 
order for possession in 2016. But the tenant started paying rent again, so he didnt pursue 
legal action until the rent fell into arears again in 2019. He was told the claim wasnt covered 
because the notice had expired, and he was too late notifying the claim. 
Mr H says the limits on cover provided by the new policy were absurd and meant it wasnt a 
suitable policy for him  or indeed for any landlord. And he says the policy was worthless to 
him as the terms changed unexpectedly and unfairly, and he wasnt eligible to claim on the 
policy. 
Since this wasnt an advised sale, Adrian Flux didnt have to assess Mr Hs need and ensure 
the policy was suitable for him; it had to provide information that was clear and enough for 
him to make a decision about whether to buy the policy. All insurance policies contain 
conditions and exclusions that may apply to some claims. It may be that a particular claim 
isnt covered due to a policy condition or exclusion applying, but that doesnt mean Mr H 
wasnt eligible to claim benefits, simply that claims might not be covered in certain 
circumstances. 
Having looked at the two policies, the cover provided by the new one does seem more 
limited  the previous policy didnt limit cover to the expiry of any notice to bring the monthly 
periodic tenancy to an end. But the policy documents did set out the policy terms. Mr H has 
said he didnt receive them but Adrian Flux has shown that they were sent to his email 
address. On that basis Im satisfied Adrian Flux did provide the policy information to him. 
And having looked at the documents I think they are clear about the cover provided. 
However, where there is a significant change, Adrian Flux should bring that to the 
customers attention. Mr H says the changes werent brought to his attention and he wasnt 
even aware there was a new insurer until he tried to make a claim. So Ive considered 
whether providing the policy documents was enough or whether Adrian Flux should have 
specifically told Mr H about the changes. 
The covering letter clearly gave the name of the new policy administrator. There was a one 
page summary of the cover which clearly stated the name of the new insurer and 
administrator. And one of the headings in the document again gave the name of the new 
administrator. I think it was clear from these documents that this was a different policy, with a 
new insurer and administrator. So it was clear from the documents that this wasnt the same 
policy  it was something different. And the policy terms set out clearly the cover provided.
The information from Adrian Flux didnt specifically draw to Mr Hs attention that the cover 
was different. Although the cover is clearly set out in the policy documents, its arguable that the difference in the cover should have been brought to his attention. But even if thats the 
case, I would then need to consider the impact of that and whether Mr H would have acted 
differently if he had been given different information. 
Mr H says he wouldnt have bought this policy and would have got one that did cover his 
claim. He has switched to a different policy and has provided details of this. I appreciate that 
Mr H did decide to take out alternative cover after his claim was turned down. But that was 
on the basis of the information he had at that time. I accept its nevertheless possible that 
given the situation with his tenant he would also have looked for alternative cover in 2018 if 
the change in cover had been brought to his attention. However, even if he had I dont think 
its likely he would then have been able to find a policy that would have covered him for this 
dispute. Having looked at the policy terms for his new policy, this does not provide cover for 
a claim where the date of event which leads to the claim is outside the policy period. Date 
of event is defined to include the first in a series of events that leads to a claim. 
Mr H had issues with rent arears going back to 2016 and obtained the possession order 
then. So the issues that led up to the claim had started before 2018. Even if Mr H had taken 
a different policy, its likely his claim would have been refused on the basis it was a pre-
existing issue or would have been notified late (which is what the insurer said on the claim 
he did make). These are common terms and its unlikely he would find a policy that didnt 
include them. So I think that even if this had been made clear to him in 2018 and he had 
taken out a different policy, its unlikely he would have found a policy that would have 
covered the claim. So he hasnt lost out as a result of any failing on the part of Adrian Flux.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman