DRN-3751093
The complaint
Mr G complains about marketing communications sent to him by Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited (HLAM). 
What happened
Mr G is a client of HLAM and uses its services on an execution-only basis. Mr G complained 
to HLAM in April 2022, in particular about marketing emails HLAM had sent him about a 
new advisory service. He told HLAM that he felt bombarded by emails it had sent which he 
considered were irrelevant, ambiguous and mostly inapplicable to him and a waste of his 
time. 
HLAM said it worked hard to ensure its marketing was relevant. It said Mr G had received 
the email about a one-off financial advice special offer when this was sent to clients who 
had already shown some interest by reading and clicking marketing emails regarding this. 
HLAM confirmed it had unsubscribed Mr G from any future marketing emails regarding 
personal financial advice.
In July 2022, Mr G complained further to HLAM, after receiving a series of its marketing 
emails, that:
HLAM wasnt treating all customers fairly, due to the fact that information in its 
marketing emails was not available at the same time for everyone as the emails 
werent sent to all customers and, 
the emails were a waste of his time  an email of 15 July, for instance, referred to 
new investments but provided no actual details or information which Mr G said was 
confusing.
HLAM didnt uphold this complaint. It said (Im summarising here in my own words) that:
it sent targeted marketing emails which promoted HLAM products and services and 
the marketing issued to Mr G on 15 July provided information on new investments 
being added to the platform and a sign up option for clients who were interested in 
receiving updates as and when these investments were released. 
Whilst HLAM appreciated that Mr G felt it was unfair on clients who did not wish to 
sign up and that this marketing should be sent to everyone, HLAM said sending 
indiscriminate marketing communications to everyone wasnt in all clients best 
interests.
If Mr G didnt sign up to receive further information on these new investments, he 
wouldnt be disadvantaged as everyone could see these on the website once they 
became available.
Mr G didnt feel that HLAM had sufficiently explained its position or addressed his concerns 
in the way he was hoping and he brought his complaints about the way HLAM carried out its 
marketing to this service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs concerns.
Over the course of a series of views our investigator tried to address Mr Gs various 
concerns but ultimately, he didnt agree that HLAM had done anything wrong. In essence he 
said that:
Mr G could opt out of HLAMs marketing emails if he felt that HLAM was sending him 
too many 
if Mr G chose not to receive marketing materials, he could still view details and see 
updates relating to available products on HLAMs website  
the investigator had listened to a number of call recordings of Mr Gs discussions with 
HLAM and was satisfied that the advisors did their best to answer his questions, it 
had noted his comments and passed these on to be looked at as part of HLAMs 
overall drive to improve its service to customers
with regard to the Select Funds launch opt-in emails, the call handler had accepted 
that the information about the product was incomplete but said it was too early for 
HLAM to provide more information and the purpose of the email was to build 
excitement and capture customer interest in the product
when the call handler was unable to answer all of Mr Gs questions, he promised a 
call back the following day. When he rang back the next day, he said the marketing 
emails contained the best bits of new offers, chosen by the editor and that more 
details could be found on the website. 
All in all, our investigator didnt feel any of the calls showed that HLAM had provided 
incorrect or contradictory information to Mr G and, whilst the emails may not have given him 
all the information he would ideally have liked to know, it wasnt unreasonable that HLAM 
had given advance notice of new products under development ahead of full details being 
available. His view was that there wasnt anything wrong with marketing emails containing 
only selective information as customers could view the website for further details. So our 
investigator said he wasnt recommending that HLAM needed to do anything further.
Mr G didnt agree, so his complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
Mr G has a number of specific concerns about HLAMs marketing emails as mentioned 
above. Hes also unhappy with the way HLAM dealt with his concerns about its marketing 
emails during phone calls when he shared his views about HLAMs marketing strategy and 
offered suggestions as to how this could be improved. 
In addition to reviewing everything I've seen and been told, I've also carefully listened to all 
the call recordings Ive been provided with and Ive taken onboard all Mr Gs concerns. Its 
my role to identify and focus on what I think is relevant and explain how I have reached my 
conclusions. I dont plan to comment on every particular point that has come up in the course of discussions between Mr G and HLAM where theres nothing I can usefully add to 
what the investigator has said already because this doesnt affect the outcome of his 
complaint overall. My approach simply reflects the fact that we provide an informal 
complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts but I want to assure Mr G 
that I have considered at length everything hes said to HLAM, and to us, before coming to 
my final decision. 
 
I will concentrate in my decision on what seems to me to be the central issue  Mr Gs 
concern that HLAM sent him far too many marketing emails which hed found unclear and 
confusing, resulting in him needing to waste a lot of his time ringing HLAM repeatedly for 
clarification.  
Id like to say at the outset that I completely understand Mr Gs frustration at the volume of 
irrelevant, spamming and phishing emails that everyone who uses the internet is exposed 
to. He mentioned this to HLAM when he phoned to ask questions about why it had sent 
him marketing emails. HLAM is only responsible for the emails it sent, and Mr G hasnt 
suggested otherwise. But I mention this because I think it helps to explain why Mr Gs 
patience was already very stretched when he received the emails HLAM sent him, 
particularly as he felt they mostly raised unanswered questions he felt obliged to have to 
spend time following up.
That said, I think its worth making clear that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), hasnt issued any general prohibition on a financial business sending marketing 
emails - so my starting point is that HLAM is entitled to do this. My remit here is to consider 
whether HLAM acted unfairly or unreasonably in its dealings with Mr G in relation to the 
marketing emails it sent him or in the service it provided to Mr G connected to its 
marketing activities.
Thinking first about Mr Gs complaint in April 2022 to HLAM about the series of emails hed 
received, and in particular the mailings about its advice offer, HLAM has explained that 
these emails were sent to Mr G in response to his online activity - on its website hed 
clicked on related pages or links and so he received targeted emails, including information 
that related to HLAMs financial advice service. 
It seems reasonable to me that HLAM thought Mr G might be interested in the services it 
was promoting. His email preferences set up with HLAM at the time appear to indicate that 
he was registered to receive this sort of email. The number of emails sent around this time 
doesnt appear to have been excessive. HLAM sent information showing that Mr G would 
have been sent an automated email after hed started to complete (but left unfinished) its 
call back booking form, and a series of three emails about a limited time special offer 
relating to a £200 discount on financial advice. So I dont find that the fact HLAMs system 
generated these emails to Mr G is a reason to uphold his complaint. 
 
I appreciate that Mr G had concerns about the contents of emails, and he spent some time 
on the phone trying to understand exactly what HLAM could offer him in terms of its £200 
off financial advice email. But, after listening to his discussion with HLAM about this, I am 
satisfied that HLAM dealt fairly and reasonably with his queries and tried to help Mr G 
understand how he could take advantage of this offer. I am aware that Mr G spent some 
time on the phone discussing this. But I think it's fair to say that, for quite a lot of the time, 
Mr G was sharing his own thoughts on how HLAM could improve its marketing and asking 
questions about the service HLAM offered that went beyond mere enquiry about the offer 
terms. Most importantly, HLAM took steps to ensure that Mr G understood that his contact 
preferences could be changed to stop emails he didnt want to receive. The call handler also assured Mr G that his concerns would be passed on to the marketing 
team  and its system records indicate that did happen and that HLAM would  take this 
on board when writing future comms going forward So I hope this at least gives Mr G 
some satisfaction. 
Its not disputed that HLAM sent Mr G a further series of emails on 17, 18, 20 and 21 
August about HL Select. Mr G told HLAM at the time that this was really aggressive 
marketing. But I dont think it was unreasonable for these emails to go out to Mr G or that 
HLAM acted in a way that was unfair or unreasonable when it sent them, when:
these were triggered as a result of Mr G having viewed or engaged with relevant 
content on HLAMs website
contact was limited to an initial email followed by three follow up emails
even if Mr G didnt respond, he wouldnt receive those particular emails again for 
6 months.
I appreciate that Mr G felt the content of these HL Select emails was unhelpful  he 
wanted to see a lot more detailed information about the new product so he could 
understand exactly what it offered him and understand if and how it might be of interest to 
him and he didnt see the point of the email otherwise. But I dont consider that HLAM did 
anything wrong or that it acted in a manner that wasnt fair and reasonable when it 
included only limited information about the launch of its new HL Select fund and didnt 
provide the level of detail that Mr G wanted to see. HLAM has explained that the purpose 
of these marketing emails was to generate interest in its new product and it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to say that they should have included full details of exactly what 
products would be offered  particularly at this early stage when final details might not 
have been settled. 
Mr G was concerned that marketing emails were unfair, especially if they included a link to 
subscribe to updates, as not all customers were signed up to receive these  or wanted to 
be. And whilst he didnt want to receive emails he considered were unhelpful or confusing, 
he also didnt want to unsubscribe from emails as this might mean hed miss out on 
information that he might want to know. But I think HLAMs response on this point was fair. 
It told Mr G that he could manage his communication preferences if he didnt want to 
continue to receive its marketing emails. And it confirmed that neither he, nor any other 
customers not subscribed to receive marketing emails, would be disadvantaged in any 
respect as all relevant information was posted on HLAMs website once the product was 
available. In terms of the HL Select fund, HLAM said there was no particular advantage to 
investors who might have invested at launch as opposed to those who might decide to 
invest later given the nature of the fund. It said Mr G didnt choose to invest in any HL 
Select funds so his concerns about this havent had any financial impact on him. 
Mr G has mentioned that in follow-up calls with HLAM it acknowledged that its marketing 
was ambiguous and not accurate. But nothing Ive heard in the call recordings is sufficient 
grounds for me to say that HLAM did anything wrong or that it didnt treat Mr G in a 
manner that wasnt fair and reasonable. The call handlers seem to me to have shown 
patience and understanding, been sympathetic to Mr Gs frustrations and they all took his 
comments seriously  to the extent these were referred back to the business to be 
considered at more length with a view to service improvements being made if considered 
necessary. 
To sum up, I appreciate that Mr G disagreed with HLAMs approach to marketing and that, 
so far as he was concerned, marketing emails it sent were a source of frustration and 
confusion. But thats not enough of a reason for me to uphold his complaints. I have found 
that the content of the emails Mr G has complained about wasnt unreasonable and they were fairly sent to him, for the reasons I have set out fully above. Mr G didnt want to 
unsubscribe at risk of losing out on information he might have wanted to know about. But 
HLAM had made Mr G aware that he could instead have chosen to rely on monitoring 
HLAMs website himself for news about available products and services and opted-out 
from marketing emails, without risk of detriment or disadvantage. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done is helpful in explaining why I am not upholding 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman