DRN-2558057
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr Z complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc drew down their mortgage too early. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mrs A and Mr Z applied for a home ownership loan for £120,000. The loan was 
taken over 23 years, with an interest rate of 1.94%. Mrs A and Mr Z would make 64 
payments of £539.43, and after the fixed rate term had ended, would make a further 211 
payments of £614.49, followed by a final payment of £615.95. 
They complained in August 2020 as the application wasnt being progressed as quickly as 
they had expected. HSBC apologised for the delay and awarded Mrs A and Mr Z £150 for 
any inconvenience caused. 
Following this, the loan application was accepted, and while Mrs A and Mr Z had wanted the 
loan drawn down as soon as possible, their circumstances had changed so they explained to 
HSBC that they wanted to wait, and theyd let them know when they were ready to receive 
the money. 
HSBC agreed to wait for their instructions but when the funds were ready, didnt do so. And 
the funds were drawn down in September 2020. 
Mrs A and Mr Z complained. They explained they had asked for the money not to be drawn 
down on a number of occasions, however HSBC went ahead and did it without them 
knowing. It was only when Mr Z checked his banking app that he realised what had 
happened.
He says this resulted in them being charged interest, and meant they needed to start making 
the repayments earlier than they would have liked. 
HSBC apologised and offered to return the funds. Mrs A and Mr Z declined the offer as they 
wanted to make a complaint about the error. Because of this, HSBC didnt return the funds 
and awarded £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. As Mrs A and Mr Z had 
declined the offer to return the funds, HSBC didnt agree that any interest was due back to 
them. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that the outcome reached by HSBC was fair. She agreed 
that Mrs A and Mr Z had specifically asked HSBC not to draw down the funds until they were 
ready, meaning a mistake had been made. But even so, our investigator was of the opinion 
that HSBC had offered to reverse the process, and as Mrs A and Mr Z declined this offer, the 
£100 compensation was fair. 
In terms of the interest that Mrs A and Mr Z were paying, our investigator explained that this 
would always have been payable, it was just being paid earlier than expected. Because of 
this, she didnt feel it would be fair to ask HSBC to refund any interest. 
In response to the investigators view, Mrs A and Mr Z explained that they werent 
questioning the amount of interest, but wanted HSBC to refund any payments made already, 
reverse the drawdown, and start to take the payments from February 2021. 
Our investigator asked HSBC if this was possible. HSBC replied and said that it was too late 
to return the funds. They explained they had given Mrs S and Mr M that option in September 
2020, but it was declined. 
Our investigator explained this to Mrs A and Mr Z and remained of the opinion that the 
compensation offered by HSBC was fair. 
Mrs A and Mr Z were unhappy with this and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I will explain why.  
I dont at all dispute here that HSBC have made errors on two occasions. Firstly with the 
delay in the application process, and secondly when they drew down the funds too early. 
And while HSBC have explained that initially Mrs A and Mr Z said the funds were needed 
urgently, they then changed their mind and instead asked for HSBC to wait, which HSBC 
should have done.  
So its clear that HSBC need to do something to put things right. In order to do this, I would 
look for HSBC to put Mrs A and Mr Z back into the position they would have been in, had the 
money been drawn down when requested by Mrs A and Mr Z rather than automatically. 
To resolve the issue, I would have expected HSBC to offer to return the funds when they 
found out they had made the error. HSBC werent able to do this when we asked them in 
January 2021. They explained that in general, funds can be returned up until the first 
payment date, which was in November 2020, but wouldnt be returned after that date had 
passed. And this is why it wasnt possible.
But HSBC did make the offer in September 2020, and the fact that Mrs A and Mr Z declined 
this offer was their choice. 
Had HSBC drawn down the money when instructed, the repayment amount and term of the 
loan wouldnt have changed, and neither would the amount of interest applied. Because of 
this, I dont feel it would be fair for HSBC to refund any interest, as the same amount would 
always have been payable. Its just that the repayments started earlier than expected. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that starting the repayments earlier than expected had 
any financial impact on Mrs A and Mr Z. But I do of course agree it wasnt what they wanted. 
HSBC have offered £150 for the application delays, and £100 for the early drawdown error, 
and I think both amounts are fair compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Because of this, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further. I understand this will be 
disappointing for Mrs A and Mr Z, but I hope I have explained clearly why I have reached this 
decision.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman