DRN-3765735
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for his trouble and upset and his 
expenses.
 
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident on 14 February 2022 and he made a claim on his policy. 
Advantage collected his car for repairs two weeks later and the repairs took longer than 
expected. Advantage provided a courtesy car when this was requested. But Mr H said this 
didnt meet his needs and his wife used it instead. Mr H collected evidence of his transport 
costs whilst he was without his car. He said these amounted to almost £4,000 but Advantage 
reimbursed him with £336. When Mr H complained, Advantage said it had made him an offer 
for his loss of use and it added £75 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
But Mr H remained unhappy. He said dealing with the claim had caused him significant 
distress and he wanted £300 compensation. He also said Advantage hadnt repaired his 
cars rear bumper. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
Advantages offer for Mr Hs loss of use was fair and reasonable. She thought Mr H hadnt 
asked for a courtesy car initially. When one was provided, she thought it was in keeping with 
the policys terms and conditions. She thought that as Mrs H had used it, then Advantage 
wasnt responsible for Mr Hs loss of use. She thought Advantage had shown that the 
bumper damage was unrelated to the accident and so wasnt covered by the claim. But she 
thought Advantage should increase its offer of compensation by a further £100 to 
acknowledge the trouble and upset caused. 
Advantage replied that it thought further compensation wasnt justified as it had already paid 
Mr H £411. It said the time Mr H spent on calls was due to his making a complaint and 
pursuing his claim for further repairs that were unrelated to the accident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the level of service provided by Advantage after Mr H made his claim. I can 
see that Mr H initially asked Advantage to delay the repairs until the other drivers insurer 
had accepted liability. 
Im satisfied that Advantage correctly told Mr H that it couldnt pursue the other insurer for an 
admission of liability unless it had costs to recover. Mr H then decided to go ahead with 
repairs on 17 February 2022. So I cant reasonably hold Advantage responsible for this initial 
delay in the claim. 
Mr Hs car was undriveable. It then took two weeks to find a garage willing to undertake the 
repairs. But the delay was due to Mr H wanting to pursue repairs through a credit hire 
company. So I cant reasonably hold Advantage responsible for this. When Mr H said he 
wanted to claim through his policy and use Advantages repair network, I can see that 
Advantage promptly located a suitable garage. 
The car was taken for repair on 2 March 2022 and Advantage said Mr H was then entitled to 
a courtesy car to be provided within 24 hours. I can see on page 10 of the policy booklet that 
Advantage provides a replacement car whilst Mr Hs car is being repaired. But Mr H was 
then unable to drive due to his injuries and so he told Advantage he didnt then require a 
courtesy car. I cant see that the policy provides for an alternative in this case. But I think 
Advantage reasonably considered a payment for Mr Hs loss of use for this period. 
Mr H requested a courtesy car on 14 March 2022. But this wasnt provided until 24 March 
2022. Advantage said this delay was due to its suppliers shortage issues, but I cant see 
that it looked for alternatives. 
So Im satisfied that Mr H was without the courtesy car he was entitled to for 24 days for the 
period whilst the car was in for repair. In its response to Mr Hs complaint, I think Advantage 
reasonably offered him a loss of use payment at the rate that it would have paid for hire in 
this time, £14 a day for 24 days. And it also paid him £75 as an apology. This is more than 
we would recommend, so I think this was fair and reasonable. 
Mr H was entitled to a small replacement car whilst his car was being repaired. But 
Advantage had only a large model available. Mr H said he was unable to drive this car and 
so his wife, a named driver on his policy, used it instead. I cant see from Advantages file 
that Mr H complained about this at the time. 
Mr H said he used alternative transport as he couldnt drive the courtesy car. Mr H said 
Advantage had told him to retain his receipts and it would reimburse them. Mr H provided a 
letter from Advantage which he said confirmed this. But I can see that Advantage said in the 
letter that it would look to reimburse Mr H which Im satisfied means that it would consider 
his receipts, not that it would definitely reimburse them all. 
In any case, I think Mr H already had the benefit of a courtesy car that he was entitled to 
under his policys terms and conditions, albeit his wife was driving it. So I think it would be 
unreasonable to expect Advantage to also reimburse him for his loss of use whilst this was 
provided. 
Mr H said Advantage hadnt fully repaired his car. But Advantage is only responsible for 
repairing damage that is related to the claim. I think Advantages engineer and repairer 
reasonably considered the results of Mr Hs recent MOT and the accident circumstances and 
thought that some of the claimed for damage was unrelated to the accident. I cant see that 
Mr H has provided any engineering evidence to counter this. So I think Advantage has 
justified its decision not to pay for further repairs. 
Mr H said that he had been caused trouble and upset during the claim and he wanted 
Advantage to pay him £300 compensation for this. Our Investigator recommended that 
Advantage should pay Mr H £100 further compensation for the time he had spent resolving 
the claim and for the impact this had had on his physical and mental health. 
Advantage wasnt responsible for the accident and the subsequent impact on Mr H. It was 
responsible for handling his claim. I can see that Mr H contacted Advantage often to pursue 
further repairs and to make a complaint. But I think some inconvenience is to be expected 
when making a claim. 
I acknowledge that Advantage paid Mr H for his loss of use whilst he was without a courtesy 
car. However, I think Mr H was put to unnecessary trouble collecting and scanning in his 
travel receipts. This took him some time to do. And I think Advantage could have better 
managed his expectation of having these reimbursed. So I agree with the Investigator that 
Advantage should pay Mr H a further £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this 
caused. Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H £100 further compensation 
(£175 in total) for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman