DRN-4078354
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a vehicle he acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
In March 2022 Mr D entered into an agreement with MotoNovo for the acquisition of vehicle 
costing £14,990.00. The vehicle was approximately five and half years old and had travelled 
approximately 47,000 miles.
Mr D says that shortly after taking delivery of the vehicle he noticed an oil leak.
In July 2022 the original supplying dealership undertook repairs to the vehicle, although 
there is some dispute as to what these repairs were. The vehicles mileage at this point in 
time was approximately 73,000.
Mr D says that shortly after the above repair, he noticed the oil leak had returned.
In December 2022, and with the original supplying dealership having undertaken no further 
repairs, the vehicle underwent an inspection instructed by MotoNovo. The vehicle mileage at 
this point in time was approximately 97,000 miles.
On receipt of the inspectors report MotoNovo wrote to Mr D to say that it wasnt upholding 
his complaint about the quality of the vehicle because it didnt believe it was liable for any of 
the faults Mr D was currently experiencing with it.
Unhappy with MotoNovos response to his complaint Mr D referred it to our service.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said he was satisfied that in March 2022 Mr D was 
supplied with a vehicle that was of satisfactory quality and the current faults were as a result 
of wear and tear.
Mr D didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr D has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided 
detailed submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. However, I trust that Mr D will not take the fact that my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less 
detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
As the agreement Mr D entered into is a regulated one this service is able to consider 
complaints relating to it. MotoNovo are also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr D entered into 
and it implies a term into the agreement that the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. Vehicles are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable 
person would find acceptable, taking into account factors such as  amongst other things  
the age and mileage of the vehicle and the price paid.
The CRA also says that the quality of goods include their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Our investigator concluded that the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
And taking everything into account I agree. Ill explain why.
As already referred to above, MotoNovo is responsible for the quality of the vehicle at the 
time it was supplied, but it isnt responsible for all and every ongoing issue or problem that 
might arise subsequently.
From the evidence Ive been provided Im satisfied that Mr D had reason to return the vehicle 
to the original supplying dealership within the first six months for repair (in respect of an oil 
leak). So, Im satisfied that when the vehicle suffered what Mr D says was a reoccurrence of 
the oil leak it was MotoNovos responsibility to provide evidence to show the car did conform 
to the contract when it was supplied. In this case, MotoNovo arranged for an independent 
inspection of the vehicle to take place to determine the faults and when they might have 
occurred. That is what Id expect it to do.
The inspection report identified a number of issues with the vehicle, but went on to say 
(amongst other things) that:
We consider the faults present were not developing at purchase and are not the 
selling agents responsibility
There was no evidence of unsuccessful previous repairs
We consider the faults have developed since purchase
We consider the selling agents are not responsible for the cost of repairs
We consider the vehicle has not suffered from a durability issue as the vehicle is a 
2016 plate model and has covered 96,612
We would conclude that we were unable to identify faults with the vehicle in the form 
of oil leaks
We would consider the faults were not developing at the time of purchase and are 
not the selling agents responsibility and are not in relation to any previous repairs
I find this report to be very persuasive and Im satisfied that MotoNovo was entitled to rely on 
it and to conclude that it wasnt responsible for the cost of any repairs required to the vehicle 
or under any obligation to accept rejection of it.For the sake of completeness, I would add the following:
Ive given full and due consideration to Mr Ds rights under various consumer 
protection legislation including, but not restricted to, the CRA.
Notwithstanding that Mr D disputes the quality of the repair undertaken by the original 
supplying dealership in July 2022, the fact remains he accepted that repair.
I accept that there is some dispute over what repair works were undertaken by the 
original supplying dealership in July 2022. But Im not persuaded that this dispute has 
any material bearing on the weight that I can, or should, give the independent 
inspection report dated December 2022.
I appreciate that Mr D has supplied our service with a vehicle health check report he 
had undertaken in November 2022 which identified that the timing case was leaking 
and required replacing. But this report doesnt comment on whether this was 
something that made the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality when first supplied or 
whether it was as a result of a failed earlier repair. This, together with the fact that 
this report was produced after Mr D had travelled approximately 50,000 miles since 
first being supplied with the vehicle and approximately 24,000miles since it was 
subject to a repair by the original supplying dealership Im afraid I can give very little 
weight to this report. 
Mr D says a vehicle shouldnt fail after just six months. But time isnt the only 
consideration that needs to be taken into account here. What also needs to be taken 
into account is the miles added to the odometer in this period of time. And in this 
case Mr D had added approximately 50,000 miles to the odometer.
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed but taking everything into account Im satisfied that 
MotoNovo did nothing wrong in refusing to pay for further repairs or to allow rejection of the 
vehicle.
My final decision
Mt final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman