DRN-2724648
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy about the service provided by Santander UK Plc when switching an ISA to 
their Investment Hub.
What happened
Mr W had an investment ISA with Santander. In early October 2020, he had a virtual 
investment review with one of Santanders financial advisers. During this meeting, he agreed 
to move his ISA to their online investment platform, called the Investment Hub, where he 
already had an account.
A few days later, Santander contacted Mr W to ask if hed done anything on the Hub, since 
his account needed to be reopened. Mr W confirmed that he hadnt. He was then unable to 
access the Hub and had a number of conversations about the issue, until late November 
when he regained access and could see that the transfer had occurred. 
To recognise the inconvenience caused, Santander offered and paid Mr W £50 
compensation. He didnt feel this amount was fair, so he referred the complaint to our 
service. 
Santander told us that Mr W hadnt used his Investment Hub account for several years. And 
that coincidentally, at the same time theyd attempted to transfer his ISA to the Hub, another 
department had been closing dormant Hub accounts. They said this was what led to the 
issues Mr W experienced. Following our investigators involvement in the complaint, 
Santander increased their offer of compensation to Mr W, offering him a further £50 to make 
a total of £100.
Mr W raised doubts about Santanders explanation. He felt hed been misled about what 
actually happened when he spoke to them while the problem was ongoing. And he didnt 
think their increased offer was fair, so the case has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this situation must have been frustrating for Mr W. He was unable to access the 
Investment Hub through no fault of his own, and this took a little over six weeks to resolve. 
He also made several calls in that time, attempting to resolve the issue. 
However, while I appreciate the situation must have been frustrating and inconvenient for 
him, Im satisfied that Santanders offer to Mr W is fair. So I wont be asking them to do 
anything further.
Im mindful that the transfer of the ISA itself went through in a reasonable timeframe, within 
the 30 day transfer timescale. And that Santander confirmed this in an email to Mr W. Im 
also mindful that being unable to access the Hub doesnt appear to have affected Mr W, 
beyond the inconvenience he experienced in not being able to view it and the fact he had to 
follow up to get this resolved. I havent seen anything to indicate he had any intention to 
carry out trades through the Hub, or that he suffered any financial loss as a result of the 
delay.
Santander has told us that Mr Ws account was closed just prior to the transfer because of a 
bulk closure exercise of dormant accounts. Mr W is doubtful that this is correct, and feels 
hes been misled. I find Santanders explanation plausible, and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
they deliberately provided him with any misleading information. The problems Mr W 
experienced appear to have stemmed simply from an unusual set of circumstances, which 
meant it was initially difficult for Santander to establish exactly what had happened.
In any case, the problem was rectified and Mr W regained access to the Hub. So the key 
issue for me to consider here is the impact the problems had on him. From all the 
information Ive been provided, Ive seen the impact was that he was unable to access the 
Hub for about six weeks in total, half this time being after the transfer occurred. And that he 
had to have a number of conversations before the problem was fixed. 
Mr W has said he had no choice but to take his complaint further after Santander offered him 
£50. But its ultimately Mr Ws choice to pursue a complaint, and as theres always going to 
be some inconvenience involved when raising a complaint, its not something wed factor in 
when considering fair compensation.
Our service isnt here to audit or punish a business, and we wouldnt apply a tariff or fine to 
Santander as Mr W has suggested. In this case, our main focus is the impact Santanders 
error had on Mr W, and this ended when he regained access to the Hub. While its always 
difficult to quantify someones inconvenience in monetary terms, Im satisfied Santanders 
offer of £100 is appropriate in these circumstances, for the reasons Ive explained above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should pay Mr W a further £50, to make a total of 
£100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman