DRN-3628426
The complaint
Mrs K has complained Clydesdale Bank plc treated her and her late husband badly when 
they went into their branch to withdraw funds.
What happened
Mrs K and her late husband, Mr S, held both savings and current accounts with Clydesdale, 
trading as Virgin Money, for a number of years.
In 2020 Mrs K and her husband Mr S were reviewing their finances. Mr S was in ill health 
and keen to help out his children and grandchildren financially. He signed a number of 
cheques for £25,000 and £10,000 in May. He also wrote to Virgin Money requesting a large 
transfer from his savings to his current account.
There were also numerous cash withdrawals made on Mr Ss debit card. Virgin Money 
identified these transactions as out of Mr S and Mrs Ks normal account usage. They queried 
what was going on with them by calling them. Mrs K didnt speak English confidently and told 
Virgin Money Mr S had difficulties understanding financial matters.
Virgin Money stopped one of the cheque payments for £55,000. Mr S and Mrs Ks son 
queried why this had happened.
Virgin Money had had different conversations with people answering Mr S and Mrs Ks 
phone. And theyd always confirmed they had no authority to speak to Mr S and Mrs Ks 
family members. The family had applied for financial Powers of Attorney for their parents but 
these hadnt been finalised by this stage. 
Virgin Money asked Mr S and Mrs K to come into their local branch to complete the transfers 
they wanted to make. They attended with their son who was helping them make a payment 
to their granddaughter. Virgin Money had concerns about whether Mr S and Mrs K were 
knowingly and willingly making this payment. The bank enacted the Banking Protocol and 
the police attended the branch.
Mrs K is concerned how they were treated in the branch. They were separated from their 
son, she wasnt able to use the facilities nor offered any refreshment. She feels they were 
treated like criminals without any respect and nobody explained what was going on. Virgin 
Money felt theyd done what was appropriate in the circumstances.
Mr S and Mrs K brought a complaint to the ombudsman service as they didnt feel Virgin 
Money had treated their complaint properly. They believed theyd been discriminated 
against.
Mr S sadly died in 2021.
Our investigator didnt believe Virgin Money had done anything wrong and acted as shed 
expect them to in similar circumstances.
Mrs K has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
There are a few threads to this complaint but the main aspect is how Mrs K and her husband 
were treated in the branch when they attended in June 2020. That includes their general 
comfort and the suspicion they felt they were placed under.
Mrs Ks family have accused Virgin Money of acting in a discriminatory manner. As Mrs K 
has been told, it is not my role to interpret the law that applies to these circumstances. 
However I can confirm I have taken the law into consideration when deciding what I believe 
is fair and reasonable.
Firstly this was during a period of national lockdown. Virgin Moneys rules were to ensure 
rooms were well-ventilated but they werent able to provide refreshments to customers nor 
would Mrs K have been able to use the branchs toilet facilities. I appreciate the problems 
this caused. This was all exacerbated by Mr S and Mrs K being separated from their son and 
the time they had to spend within the branch.
The main reason why this occurred is that Virgin Money invoked the Banking Protocol and 
called the police to speak to Mr S and Mrs K.
That brings me onto why Virgin Money felt they had no choice to invoke the Banking 
Protocol. This is done when a bank feels they have reasonable grounds to suspect a 
customer may be under duress or unaware that they are being taken financial advantage of 
and that the transaction being requested is out of character.
Overall I believe Virgin Money had adequate grounds for thinking this was the best step to 
take. Specifically:
Conversations with Mrs K along with their observation within branch showed that 
Mr S was having difficulty understanding the financial decisions he was making. Mr S 
was unable to confirm his date of birth when in branch.
Mr S had signed a number of recent cheques to share money with his children. 
Whilst completely understandable behaviour in normal circumstances, Virgin Money 
were concerned Mr S wouldnt have known what he was signing.
Virgin Money would have known that powers of attorney were not yet in place.
Virgin Money had suspicions about conversations over the phone with Mr Ss son 
who they were concerned was trying to suggest he was Mr S.
Familial financial abuse is a real concern for banks who have been warned by the 
regulators about ensuring they have procedures in place to safeguard their 
customers.
I know that Mrs K and her husband were confused about what was going on and 
substantially concerned about how they were treated. It must have seemed they were being 
placed under suspicion when the police were called. Their difficulties with speaking English 
confidently  as well as Mr S feeling drained and exhausted by this stage  wouldnt have 
helped at all. Mrs K has always stated she told Virgin Money they authorised the transactions and I can understand why she felt she was being ignored.
However I cant say that Virgin Money acted inappropriately by calling the police to speak to 
them. It is more often the case that our service criticises banks for not taking that step when 
that could have been what was needed to prevent a customer being a victim of fraud.
I know the family member who has helped Mrs K in her complaint strongly believes Virgin 
Money had no understanding of the cultural norms within a family like Mr S and Mrs Ks. 
They were managing their money in a way to provide living bequests to family members and 
doesnt think Virgin Money understood this.
I dont think this is the case or is what matters here as regardless of what Mr S and Mrs K 
wanted to do, I believe Virgin Money had sufficient grounds for concern.
Unfortunately what happened and the undisputed distress Mrs K felt after this visit to the 
bank was a consequence of invoking the Banking Protocol. I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Virgin Money to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint against 
Clydesdale Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman