DRN-4226343
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd trading as Lantern (Lantern) are 
pursuing her for debts brought about by irresponsible lending.
What happened
Miss B had multiple short-term loans from three businesses that for the purpose of this 
decision Ill call OL1, OL2 and OL3. OL1, OL2 and OL3 sold Ms Bs accounts on to Lantern. 
In turn Lantern contacted Miss B to arrange collection on the accounts.
In May 2022, Miss B raised a complaint with Lantern as she felt that the loans were lent to 
her irresponsibly and so she thought they should be written off, and no longer reported on 
her credit file as they were affecting her credit score.
Lantern responded later the same month, giving Miss B a breakdown of her accounts and 
explaining to her that any disputes about OL3 would have been resolved before the account 
was passed over. It did go on to say if there was something still ongoing Miss B could 
provide evidence to Lantern for them to investigate further.
Miss B responded to Lantern explaining she:
believed her OL1 account was statute barred
had raised a separate complaint with OL2 about irresponsible lending, and that was 
ongoing
had raised a complaint withOL3 about irresponsible lending, but it had never 
responded
After this correspondence Lantern told Miss B that it was considering writing off her OL1 
account. It also told her the time for raising a dispute with OL3 had passed.  But added in 
error that it would arrange for her dispute to be passed on.
Miss B chased Lantern for an update in September 2022 and again in December 2022, 
when it logged her complaint and issued its final response letter to her saying, in summary it:
had waived the balance on the account relating to OL1.
Placed a hold on the OL2 account, pending the outcome of the irresponsible lending 
dispute with them
shouldnt have told her it would raise a dispute on her behalf with OL3 as they had 
gone into administration in November 2019 and the deadline for claims against this 
business passed in March 2021. Meaning she could not bring an irresponsible 
lending complaint about this account with OL3, and the balance remained 
outstanding.
Apologised and offered her £75 compensation for the delay in keeping her updated 
and for the confusion about the OL3 account.
Miss B remained unhappy with Lanterns actions and so brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld. In summary 
he said:
Lantern wasnt responsible for the lending decision OL3 made and so couldnt be 
held accountable for it. 
Lantern had dealt with the OL2 account as he would have expected and placed a 
hold on it pending the outcome of the irresponsible lending complaint. 
The £75 offer of compensation for delays and confusion was in line with our 
approach.
Miss B disagreed, she feels its unfair that she has no recourse for OL3 actions, which she 
perceives to be irresponsible. She feels that when Lantern wrote to her telling her it had 
taken over the account and saying her legal rights hadnt changed, she took this to mean 
Lantern had taken over all responsibilities associated with the account, including those of the 
sale of the loan. 
She said as OL1 had now been waived and OL2 was being dealt with separately these 
accounts were no longer in dispute in relation to this complaint.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. Having done so, I have to tell Miss B that I 
have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain, but in doing so Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
 
As OL1 and OL2 are no longer in dispute in relation t this complaint I have focussed on OL3 
and the compensation offered by Lantern.
Miss B took out the loan with OL3 in March 2019.OL3 was placed into administration on 29 
November 2019 and the administrators set a deadline for claims against the company of 31 
March 2021. In January 2022 Miss Bs account was sold to Lantern and although her legal 
rights werent affected Lantern did not become responsible for OL3s actions at the point of 
sale for the loan. Lantern wrote to Miss B, via email in January 2022 letting her know it was 
now the owner of the account. 
When Miss B contacted Lantern about this debt in May 2022 and as Ive noted above when 
Lantern purchased the account it didnt become responsible for the sale of the loan, so this 
needed to be directed to OL3. But as the deadline for claims against OL3 had already 
passed Miss B was already out of time for making an irresponsible lending claim against 
them and so has missed the opportunity of potentially getting either a partial or full refund 
against the account.
I appreciate that Miss B has said she did make a complaint on OL3s portal but never 
received a response. And while that may be the case and she may have made a claim in time, the lack of response isnt the fault of Lantern and so I cant fairly say they did anything 
wrong in regard to this. 
I do however understand the frustration Miss B must have felt at being told by Lantern it 
would get her dispute dealt with, only to find out much later that it had told her this in error. 
Ive considered this and thought about the impact of the misinformation, and while it was 
misleading, I dont think it has disadvantaged Miss B. I say this because at the time of 
Lantern giving Miss B this information the deadline to claim against OL3 had already passed 
many months before, and so there was no detriment to her here. Even if Lantern hadnt told 
her, it would get her dispute dealt with, she would still be in the same position as she is now. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the £75 offered by Lantern for the delays and the confusion around 
the OL3 dispute is fair, reasonable and in line with what Id expect, so it follows I wont be 
asking Lantern to do anything differently here.
I know this isnt the outcome Miss B hoped for. But my decision ends what we  in trying to 
resolve her dispute with Lantern can do for her.
Putting things right
Lantern should now pay Miss B the £75 offered in its final response letter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I now require 
Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd trading as Lantern to carry out the actions as set out 
under the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman