DRN-2026379
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In September 2018 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS.
At the point of supply the car was around 3 years old and had covered around 35000 miles.
Mr A experienced a number of issues with the car. These included:
Air conditioning not working
Rattling noise from exhaust
Diesel fuel point misting and wouldnt allow filling
Stop start not working
Intermittent loss of performance
Mr A contacted the supplying dealership soon after the point of supply. He says the 
dealership told him it would sort out the issues, but it never did.
Mr A reported the issues to BMWFS in October 2019. In response, BMWFS arranged for an 
independent inspection of the car.
The independent inspection found that the air conditioning wasnt working. It also found 
noise from the suspension, which it said was due to wear and tear. The engineer said the 
fuel filler tank was operating as expected but that a vapour canister required replacement. 
The engineer also found that the cars performance was sluggish and suggested cleaning the 
fuel system. The report concluded that all of the issues were due to wear and tear and that 
the car wouldve been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Based on the findings in the report, BMWFS rejected Mr As complaint. It said there was no 
evidence that the car was faulty at the point of supply.
Mr A wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. he looked at the available evidence and said he 
thought the issues were due to wear and tear.
Mr A didnt agree. He provided some emails between himself and the dealership and said 
hed experienced the issues soon after the point of supply but despite reporting these to the 
supplying dealer they hadnt been fixed.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car. I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr A  
to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand-new car. 
So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had an 
inherent fault, as opposed to a fault caused by wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally 
up to the business to put things right. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its 
up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactorily quality at the point of supply.
Mr A and BMWFS disagree about whether the car had inherent faults. In order to reach a 
decision, I need to look at the available evidence and determine, on the balance of 
probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
An independent engineers report can help to determine whether car is of satisfactorily 
quality. Ive looked at the report in this case. This identifies a number of issues which are 
consistent with those reported by Mr A. The engineer says that all of the issues are due to 
general wear and tear ad has explained in detail why he has reached this conclusion.
Whilst I can see from the report that there are issues with the car, Im persuaded by the 
engineer opinion that these are due to wear and tear. There isnt anything to suggest that the 
faults were present at the point of supply.
I appreciate that Mr A has said that some of the issues were present at the point of supply. 
Hes provided some emails between him and the supplying dealer which he says shows this. 
Ive looked at these emails, but I dont think they show that there were pint of supply faults 
with the car. I can see that the issues were investigated by the supplying dealer who 
concluded that there werent any faults.
This service provided copies of the emails to the engineer who inspected the car and asked 
him whether they impacted on his opinion. He confirmed that his opinion hadnt changed. 
I understand how frustrating it can be when cars go wrong and require repairs. But based on 
everything Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to show that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. So I wont be asking BMWFS to do anything. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman