DRN-2755432
The complaint
Ms P complains that Wealth At Work Limited (WAW) failed to provide her the agreed 
standard of ongoing support in relation to some pension benefits she transferred to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) following advice from the firm. She further complains 
that the advice she was given about transferring her pension benefits was inappropriate.
What happened
Ms P held deferred pension benefits with an occupational pension scheme (OPS). Those 
benefits primarily consisted of defined contribution (DC) benefits, but included a small part of 
defined benefit (DB) savings. Ms P was given advice by WAW in 2018 that resulted in her 
transferring those pension savings to a SIPP. She paid WAW a fee for that advice, and 
agreed to pay an ongoing fee for the firm to provide her with a discretionary investment 
management service for her transferred pension savings. 
When WAW provided its advice to Ms P she was 48 years old. In addition to the deferred 
pension benefits she transferred she continued to make pension contributions to an 
additional OPS provided by her employer. Although her employer had changed its legal 
identity, in effect Ms P had continuous employment across both pension schemes.
Following WAWs advice Ms P transferred pension savings amounting to around £39,400 to 
the SIPP. From that was deducted a fee of around £923 to be paid to WAW for its advice. 
And Ms P agreed to pay ongoing charges of 1.5%+VAT of the value of her pension savings 
to WAW for its ongoing management services. In addition she needed to pay administration 
charges to the managers of the funds that she held as part of her pension investments.
Shortly after the advice had been provided, Ms Ps advisor left WAW. A new advisor was 
appointed by the firm. However the following year, when she had received no further contact 
from the firm Ms P got in touch to enquire about setting up her annual review. At that time 
WAW suggested a further change to Ms Ps advisor, however it reversed that decision 
following a complaint from Ms P. But, whilst that complaint was being investigated WAW 
says that Ms P agreed to defer a scheduled meeting. It says that Ms P failed to get back in 
touch to rearrange the meeting. 
Ms Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that WAW 
had acted inappropriately in the way it had managed its relationship with Ms P. But she 
didnt think the original advice WAW had provided to Ms P, to transfer her pension benefits 
to the SIPP, had been appropriate. So she asked WAW to pay Ms P some compensation.
WAW didnt agree with that assessment. It says that at the time the advice was given Ms P 
confirmed that she was looking for long term growth of her pension savings, but that she 
wanted to make ad-hoc withdrawals from time to time. So she needed an income drawdown 
facility that wasnt available from her OPS. In addition her normal retirement age from the 
OPS was 65, but Ms P said she might potentially like to start taking her benefits from age 60.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Ms P accepts my decision it 
is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms P and by WAW. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As WAW will be aware, unlike the Courts, I am not limited to looking only at the issues a 
consumer has focused on in their complaint. Our approach is "inquisitorial" - rather than the 
"adversarial" procedures of the courts, where the lawyers for the two sides "fight it out". By 
law, I am required to resolve complaints fairly. This means I decide what questions to ask to 
get to the bottom of things. And it means I can concentrate on the relevant facts of the case, 
rather than the complaint as presented.
Here I am satisfied that Ms Ps original complaint about the ongoing management of her 
pension savings led her to re-examine the advice shed been given about the transfer. I think 
that her original complaint to this Service did include both aspects, and so it is entirely right 
that I consider them both here. But even if the complaint hadnt covered both aspects I dont 
think it would have been unreasonable to include both in my investigation. 
I will deal with each part of the complaint in turn, starting with the advice Ms P was given.
Ms P appears to be a relatively inexperienced investor. Her OPS savings were held within 
the scheme default lifecycle fund. And from her comments recently to our investigator, that 
I find to be both plausible and persuasive, she appears to have little understanding of the 
arrangements that WAW advised her to put in place following the transfer of her pension 
savings. Ms P tells us that WAW had been engaged from time to time by her employer to 
provide pensions advice to its employees, and that is how her relationship with the firm came 
about.
The pension savings that were subject to WAWs advice were relatively modest. And the 
management charges that were levied by the OPS were relatively small at around 0.231% 
per annum. The estimated charges that she would need to pay after the transfer would 
equate to 1.8% to WAW and a further 0.254% per annum in fund administration costs.
 I entirely accept that I am not comparing like with like in terms of those charges  Ms P 
would be receiving a discretionary fund management service from WAW, together with 
ongoing management and advice about her pension savings. But it is clear that her pension 
investments would need to perform significantly better after the transfer to make the move 
cost effective. And that of course doesnt take into account the charges that Ms P needed to 
pay to WAW for its initial advice. 
I think it unlikely that, given Ms Ps assessed attitude to risk, it could be reasonably argued 
that any improvements in investment performance would likely exceed the additional 
charges that she would need to pay, both to WAW and for the fund administration charges. 
And I think it is important to note that Ms P wasnt being advised to make this transfer simply 
to match the investment growth that she was seeing from the OPS  her objective would 
surely have been to exceed that growth (net of charges) so that her pension savings were 
higher at the point she chose to retire. 
I accept that financial growth, whilst extremely important, should not be the only factor that 
I take into account when considering the suitability of the advice WAW provided. As WAW 
has noted, the changes in pension legislation in 2015 provided consumers with more flexible 
ways of taking their pension benefits. And Ms Ps OPS didnt allow her to take her benefits 
using much of that flexibility. So WAW argues that was a strong reason for the transfer to be 
recommended.
But Ms P indicated that she didnt intend to take her pension benefits until at least 12 years 
later  and she would be unable to take them at all under the legislation at that time for at 
least 7 years. So it would have been entirely reasonable for her to defer making a decision 
about transferring her pension savings until much closer to her intended retirement. At that 
time she would have had a far better understanding of whether she needed the flexibility that 
the transfer to a SIPP offered to her. And by delaying that decision she could have reduced 
the burden that the additional annual charges would place on her modest pension savings.
As I noted earlier, Ms Ps OPS benefits contained a small portion of DB benefits. Those 
would have provided Ms P with a small guarantee on her pension income. And, given the 
continuity of her employment, they also offered her some significant additional benefits 
should she be made redundant. I havent seen anything that makes me think Ms P thought 
that redundancy was imminent at the time the advice was given. But I think the loss of those 
valuable benefits should have been something that WAW considered in its advice, and 
clearly set out for Ms P so that she could make a fully informed decision.
As it happens, Ms P was made redundant in June 2020, around 18 months after her pension 
benefits had been transferred. She has provided us with a copy of a letter she received 
recently from the OPS administrator. That letter shows that, had Ms P not transferred her 
pension savings, they would have been enhanced by around 44% at the time of her 
redundancy, giving her an augmentation of over £18,000 to her pension savings.
Overall, and having considered Ms Ps circumstances at the time, I cannot conclude that it 
was reasonable for WAW to advise her to transfer her pension savings from the OPS to a 
SIPP. I cannot agree that she had any need at that time for the additional flexibility the SIPP 
offered, including the extended investment choices, or that it is likely the additional charges 
she would need to pay would be offset by higher investment returns. So I will be directing 
WAW to put things right for Ms P, including taking account of the uplift shed have received 
to her pension savings when she was made redundant in 2020. And I have no doubts that 
these matters will have caused a great deal of trouble and upset to Ms P. So I will also be 
awarding some further compensation to her in that regard.Ive looked at the service that WAW provided to Ms P after the transfer took place. I think it is 
understandable that it might have needed to change Ms Ps advisor since he had left the 
business. That is entirely outside of WAWs control. And whilst I accept that Ms P was only 
told about that change when she contacted WAW, its records indicate that contact was only 
a few weeks after the advisor had left. It doesnt seem to me that situation was entirely 
unreasonable.
In 2019, WAW did indicate that it intended to change the advisor once more. I can 
understand why that might have caused some concern to Ms P given it appeared to show a 
lack of continuity in the management of her pension savings. But it appears that WAW 
reversed that decision following Ms Ps complaint. So I dont think WAW did anything wrong 
here either.
Ive listened to part of the phone call between Ms P and WAW about the cancelled meeting. 
Unfortunately only part of the recording is available  I understand that WAW updated its 
phone recording system meaning that some calls are no longer available. But from the part 
of the call I have listened to, and WAWs file note of the call, Im not persuaded that the 
decision to postpone the meeting was imposed by WAW. Instead I think it was something 
that Ms P agreed to, and at once stage she even suggested that she would have proposed it 
as a course of action herself.
So overall, I dont think that WAW has treated Ms P unfairly in the management of its 
relationship with her in the time following the transfer. So Im not upholding that part of 
Ms Ps complaint.
  
Putting things right
I dont think that WAW should have advised Ms P to transfer her pension savings from the 
OPS to a SIPP. So WAW needs to assess whether Ms P has lost out as a result of that 
advice. Had the advice not been given I think that Ms P would have retained her pension 
savings with the OPS indefinitely. And so I think it reasonable that when it assesses any 
losses that Ms P has suffered WAW takes account of the enhancement that would have 
been added to Ms Ps pension savings when she was made redundant.  
What should WAW do?
To compensate Ms P fairly, WAW must:
Compare the performance of Ms P's SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. 
In doing so, WAW should take account of the uplift that would have been paid at the 
date of Ms P being made redundant. If the fair value is greater than the actual value 
there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable. 
If there is a loss, WAW should pay into Ms P's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If WAW is unable to pay the total amount into Ms P's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, I expect that Ms P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if 
Ms P would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay £200 to Ms P for the disruption to her retirement planning.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)
SIPP still existsReturn from 
lifestyle fund had 
the pension 
savings remained 
invested including 
an uplift of 
44.167% applied 
on 30/06/2020date of 
investmentdate of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
I think it likely that Ms P would have left her pension savings invested within the 
lifestyle fund offered by the OPS had WAWs advice not been provided to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct Wealth At Work Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. Wealth At Work Limited should provide details of its 
calculation to Ms P in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman