DRN-1848340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined to their claim for 
roof damage under their home insurance policy. Theyve also said one of its home 
emergency engineers had completed poor repairs.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs T took out home insurance with UKI. This policy included 
insurance for their buildings and contents and home emergency cover.
The following week, Mr and Mrs T say they noticed water staining to the ceiling and walls in 
one of their bedrooms, so contacted their home emergency provider. Following two failed 
repairs, they contacted UKI to make a claim under their buildings insurance. 
UKI sent out an engineer to inspect the damage and considered a claim under the storm 
section of Mr and Mrs Ts policy. It found there hadnt been a storm in the area at the time, 
and the damage had instead been caused due to wear and tear over time. So UKI said it 
wouldnt cover the roof damage as an insured peril hadnt occurred. However, UKI agreed to 
cover the internal property damage as accidental damage.  
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with this and raised a complaint. They said UKIs home 
emergency engineer had only completed a quick repair which made the problem worse. 
UKI maintained its decision to decline the storm claim. And it said it hadnt sent out a home 
emergency engineer. It said instead Mr and Mrs T had contacted a separate insurer 
(Company A) which had instructed its own engineer to complete repairs. UKI said it wouldnt 
comment on this further, and they should raise any complaint with Company A directly.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and was satisfied the damage to the 
roof wasnt covered by the policy. He said there hadnt been a storm in the area around the 
time of the loss, so it seemed damage had been caused by wear and tear which was 
excluded under the terms of the policy. And he said Mr and Mrs T would need to complain to 
Company A about the home emergency call out, as this wasnt under UKIs instruction. 
Mr and Mrs T said they had called the home emergency claim number from the UKI policy 
booklet. So they didnt agree this was related to Company A instead. They also said there 
had been poor weather conditions before the damage occurred. As Mr and Mrs T disagreed, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Home emergency call out
It seems theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs T had a home emergency engineer attend their 
property. However, there is a disagreement about which company arranged this. 
UKI has said Company A has agreed it had handled the home emergency claim. Ive looked 
at UKIs internal notes and Ive seen this confirmed. UKI has also noted that an insurance 
claims database (used by insurers to record claims) reflects a recent claim recorded by 
Company A. This further suggests this isnt related to UKI.
I would also note the home emergency cover provided by UKI doesnt cover any damage 
caused by a storm, or any damage to the roof. Nor does it provide any cover for emergency 
call outs within the first 14 days of the policy  which was the case here.
Mr and Mrs T may feel strongly about this, but I cant ignore the more persuasive evidence 
provided by UKI. So any complaint Mr and Mrs T have about the works carried out by the 
home emergency engineer, or information they were given, will need to be addressed by 
Company A, not UKI.
Storm cover
Mr and Mrs Ts policy covers loss or damage caused by certain insured perils, such as fire, 
flood, or storm amongst others. The policy only provides cover in the event of one of these 
perils. So Ive considered the policy terms and evidence provided to determine if UKI acted 
fairly and reasonably when it declined the claim under this part of the policy.
When considering a storm claim, I have to consider the following three questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the event?
2. Is the damage typical for storm damage?
3. Is the storm the cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then UKI will not need to cover the claim. So 
Ive considered these in turn.
Was there a storm?
UKI doesnt define a storm within Mr and Mrs Ts policy. And in the absence of a definition, 
our service would generally say a storm consists of violent winds usually accompanied by 
heavy rain, hail or snow, in a single identifiable event. 
Mr and Mrs T have said there was a storm. So Ive considered weather records in their area 
around the time of the loss. I can see in the days leading up the damage, there were high 
winds recorded and a high volume of rainfall. But I dont think the rainfall was of an 
exceptional or unusual intensity. And although there were high winds, I cant see they were 
severe enough to be classed as a storm.
So I dont think the weather at the time constitutes as a storm under the terms of the policy, 
and Im satisfied the answer to this question is no. This means I dont have to go on to 
consider the further questions Ive mentioned above, and Im persuaded UKI was correct to 
decline the claim under this part of the policy.
other cover under the policy
Mr and Mrs T also have accidental damage cover as part of their policy  and UKI had 
agreed to cover the internal damage to their home under this section. So Ive thought about 
whether this or any other cover should apply, taking into account terms and exclusions.Accidental damage is defined in the policy as sudden, unintentional physical damage that 
happens unexpectedly. Its not clear to me whether UKI explored if the external damage met 
this definition, as it has simply said the damage will not be covered due to an exclusion.
But UKI has said that under the conditions of the policy, the insurance wont cover wear and 
tear. This is a standard exclusion within these types of policies. 
So Ive thought about whether the cause of the damage was through wear and tear. UKIs 
surveyors notes say:
An external inspection revealed areas of the box valley/roof structure which appeared to be 
the subject of a previous repair. The Customer states that Home Emergency stated that the 
lead of the box valley had lifted slightly and that a number of clay roof tiles were displaying 
evidence of wear and tear in that the surface of the tile were flaking.
Based on this, it seems most likely to me that the damage to the roof happened over time, 
wasnt sudden, and was due to wear and tear  and so isnt covered under the policy. Ive 
been given no other expert evidence or opinion that would persuade me otherwise, so Im 
satisfied UKI has fairly declined the claim taking into account all aspects of cover available 
under the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020. 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman