The complaint 
Miss F and Mr Ls complaint is about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) and its decline of 
their claim under a travel insurance policy. Mr L had been taken to hospital while abroad; he 
said this was due to suffering heat exhaustion and dehydration; the hospital records record 
that he suffered a seizure. IPA declined the claim as it said Mr Ls underactive thyroid hadnt 
been declared when the policy was taken out. Miss F and Mr L want the claim paid, and said 
that Miss F had answered the questions about health correctly as Mr Ls condition wasnt 
diagnosed in the last five years and the ill health suffered on holiday had nothing to do with 
Mr Ls thyroid.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
One question asked by IPA through a comparison website was Within the last 5
years have you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any medical
condition that has required prescribed medication and/or treatment including surgery,
tests or investigations? Miss F answered no as she thought the question was
asking about when a condition was diagnosed. But this isnt what the question asked
and I think it was clear  the answer in Mr Ls case shouldve been yes as he has
been on medication for his condition in the last five years.
Another question asked was Are you or anyone you wish to insure on this
policyaware of any circumstances, including the health of relatives or other third
party, which may cause the cancellation, cutting short of a trip or result in a claim?.
Miss F answered no, but Mr L did suffer from an underactive thyroid which required
medication. I appreciate that Mr L says Miss Fs answer was right as his medication
allowed him to lead a completely normal life so his thyroid couldnt cause a claim, but
that is an assumption  the condition was serious enough to need treatment. I also
note that Mr Ls medical notes show that he suffered from other undisclosed
conditions. The answer should've been "yes".
Due to the answers given by Miss F, IPA sold them a policy not designed for
policyholders with pre-existing medical conditions. It has provided evidence that if the
answer to either of the questions had been yes, the policy wouldnt have been sold
at all. I note there was a warning displayed when the policy was selected that it
wasnt designed to cover claims arising from pre-existing medical conditions and the
application should only proceed if there werent any; the warning is repeated at the
start of the policy.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable
DRN-1801475care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer 
fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - 
what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. IPA 
has shown this in Miss F and Mr Ls case.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed
to take reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers
questions were; I think the questions were clear, particularly the first one. The
remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would
have at least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the
consumers policy. If the misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the
insurer must show it would not have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the
misrepresentation. Having considered the evidence, I think Miss Fs failure to
disclose Mr Ls medical condition was reckless as a reasonable consumer taking
reasonable care wouldve read the questions and understood it had to be declared. If
the questions had been answered correctly, Im satisfied that this policy wouldnt
have been sold. IPA is entitled to avoid the policy, which means it can decline the
claim. As CIDRA reflects this services long-established approach to
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing IPA to rely on it to avoid the policy produces
the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
I also dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for IPA to ask Mr L to get a medical
certificate to confirm his pre-existing medical conditions, particularly as the policy
made it clear this evidence was needed at his own cost to make a claim.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman