DRN-4003987
The complaint
Mr J said Barclays Bank UK PLC sold him a mortgage which was portable, but he complains 
later it wouldnt let him port this mortgage to a new property he wanted to buy. Mr J had to 
pay a substantial Early Repayment Charge (ERC). He wanted Barclays to refund this.
What happened
Mr J initially took out this mortgage with a third party, but he then took on sole responsibility 
for the mortgage, and this third party wasnt involved in his application to port the mortgage. 
Mr J said he took out a fixed rate mortgage with Barclays in 2019. He said he chose this 
mortgage because it was portable, so he could move house before the fixed interest rate 
ended, and any ERC would be waived. But Mr J said when he applied to port this mortgage, 
Barclays refused, because it said its underwriters were fully extended on the development 
where his new property was situated. 
Mr J said Barclays just told him "Your new mortgage was declined due to our bank policy". 
Mr J said he was not warned at any time, either when taking out the fixed rate or when 
applying for the new mortgage, that it might be declined for a policy reason. 
Mr J said by the time Barclays withdrew its offer, he was already committed, so he felt he 
had no real option but to go ahead. Mr J said he had to pay an ERC of over £7,000, and was 
only able to buy the property because he got assistance from his family to cover the shortfall.
Mr J wanted Barclays to pay back the ERC it had charged him.
Barclays said it had declined Mr Js new mortgage due to bank policy, and it didnt think it 
had done anything wrong. It said the ERC was charged in line with the terms and conditions 
of his mortgage. So it wouldnt pay this back. 
Mr J said the problem didnt arise because his application didnt meet bank policy. He said it 
met Barclays banking policy in all regards. It was just because Barclays was overcommitted 
on this development, so its loss adjusters would not cover any more lending. 
Mr J said he was promised when he took out the mortgage that as long as he ported it he 
would not be charged the ERC. There was no suggestion that there may be circumstances 
in which Barclays would not port. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the terms of Mr Js 
mortgage said that there was a possibility the mortgage could be ported, subject to the new 
property and Mr Js circumstances meeting Barclays lending criteria at that time. But when 
Barclays completed its checks, it discovered that it had reached its exposure limits on the 
development Mr Js property was in, so it wouldnt lend to him for this purchase. 
Our investigator said she understood this would have been disappointing for Mr J, but 
Barclays wasnt obliged to lend to him. She didnt think Barclays had treated Mr J unfairly 
when it declined his mortgage application. His new property was just, unfortunately, outside 
of its lending criteria. But our investigator said Barclays had assessed his application fairly 
and reasonably. And it had told him an ERC would apply if he repaid this mortgage early. So 
our investigator didnt think Barclays needed to take any further action on this complaint. 
Mr J didnt agree. He said hed understood that he would be able to port his mortgage, both 
when he took out the mortgage and when he first made this application. Mr J said hed 
specifically chosen this mortgage because it was portable, and he could have remortgaged 
elsewhere for less with a mortgage that wasnt portable. So he said if Barclays then decided 
not to port his mortgage, it should refund the ERC it charged. 
Mr J also said that it wasnt right to say that his new property didnt meet Barclays lending 
criteria. The only reason Barclays wouldnt lend wasnt because of the property, it was 
because of how Barclays chooses to manage its risk. Mr J was never told there was a 
possibility that the new property might not fit in with Barclays risk appetite. 
Mr J wanted to stress that he wasnt warned either when taking out the fixed rate or when 
applying for the new mortgage that it might be declined for a policy reason. And he said he 
was entitled to rely upon the representation that Barclays made to him that, provided he 
applied for another mortgage with it, he would not have to pay the ERC. 
Mr J said if Barclays had told him there was a chance that it wouldnt port the mortgage, then 
he would have delayed moving home until the ERC was no longer payable. But he said 
Barclays had made an offer in principle which he relied on to proceed to what was really a 
point of no return.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said that Mr Js mortgage offer set out the 
terms of his mortgage, including that You have the possibility to transfer the outstanding 
balance of this loan to another property, subject to the new property and your circumstances 
meeting our lending criteria at that time. And she repeated that Mr Js new property just 
didnt meet Barclays criteria.
Mr J also asked to see the documents that Barclays had sent our service, so he could 
decide if he wanted to make any further representations. Those documents have now been 
sent to Mr J, and hes confirmed he has nothing further to add. 
It now falls to me to reach a final decision in this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
When Mr J took out the mortgage with Barclays that he later wished to port, the mortgage 
offer contained two relevant provisions. The first was that Early repayment charges are 
payable on this mortgage until 31 October 2022 as follows. So I think Mr J was notified that 
he would need to pay an ERC if he redeemed this mortgage before the end of October 2022. 
The second provision was You have the possibility to transfer the outstanding balance of 
this loan to another property, subject to the new property and your circumstances meeting 
our lending criteria at that time.Mr J said he was given express reassurances when he took out the mortgage that this 
mortgage was portable. I think those reassurances were likely to be correct, as this was a 
mortgage that could potentially be ported. However, I can see that Mr J was also given 
documentation at the time of offer, which clearly stated this was not an unqualified right. 
Mr J said he was told again when he applied for a mortgage for his new purchase, that the 
mortgage he had could be ported. And again, I think thats right, but it does remain subject to 
the conditions of the original offer. 
Mortgage lending is always subject to a series of checks, both on the property providing the 
security for the lending, and on the person borrowing the money. I dont think its likely that 
Mr J was given any clear and unequivocal commitment, either when he originally took out 
this mortgage or when he later decided to apply to port this lending, that the only condition 
for Barclays waiving the ERC was just that Mr J should apply for another mortgage with it 
when he wanted to move house.
Mr J said he then relied on the decision in principle to lend to him, and moved to a stage 
where he felt he was committed to this purchase. But a decision in principle isnt a 
commitment to lend. At this stage, Mr Js application remained subject to additional checks, 
including on the suitability of the property for use as security against lending. 
In this case, Barclays took the view that this property wasnt suitable security for its lending, 
because Barclays had reached its exposure limits on this development. I think its clear that 
Barclays lending criteria include ensuring that it limits its exposure on a single development, 
and Mr Js application unfortunately fell outside of this policy. 
I understand how disappointing this was for Mr J, and that he feels this is quite unfair. But I 
dont agree with Mr J that this had nothing to do with the property, or that this is actually an 
external policy. I think this was a decision by Barclays own underwriters, that Mr Js new 
property simply didnt meet Barclays lending criteria at the time of his application. 
Mr J chose to go ahead with his purchase, and pay the ERC on his mortgage with Barclays. 
Im satisfied that Mr J had been properly notified of the ERC when he took out the mortgage, 
and I think it was charged in line with the terms of that mortgage. I know Mr J will be 
disappointed, but I dont think Barclays has to repay this now. And that means this complaint 
wont be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman