DRN-2093804
The complaint
Mr W says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty lent to him irresponsibly. He says he was in 
financial difficulty when Drafty approved the lending. He says Drafty shouldve seen this and 
not lent to him. He also says paying the interest on the loan has caused him significant 
financial problems. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account provided to Mr W on 21 September 2017. 
The arrangement had a credit limit of £600 and Mr W drew down the full amount straight 
away. He continued to make repayments and withdrawals from it going forward. 
On 21 January 2018 Drafty increased Mr Ws credit limit to £1,500. And Mr W continued to 
use the account. I understand Mr W repaid the account in full in October 2019. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think Drafty was wrong to approve 
the initial lending. But he thought Drafty shouldnt have approved any further lending after it 
increased the credit limit in January 2018. 
Mr W agrees in principle that this is a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
Drafty also agreed with the adjudicators findings and made an offer to settle the complaint. It 
offered to refund all of the interest and charges Mr W had paid since January 2018. It 
calculated this to be £779.06 (plus interest at 8% simple). 
Mr W didnt accept this offer as he thought he had paid around twice this amount of interest 
over the relevant time period. 
After looking at the statements Drafty had provided the adjudicator agreed that it was likely 
that Drafty had calculated the compensation it had offered to pay incorrectly. Our adjudicator 
asked for clarification from Drafty about how it had calculated the compensation. 
Drafty didnt respond to our adjudicators request, or revise the offer it had made. So as no 
agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
Our adjudicator said that Drafty shouldnt have approved any lending after 21 January 2018. 
Having looked at all the information provided I think this right and I agree that Mr Ws 
complaint should be upheld on this basis. I wont comment further on this as both parties to 
the complaint now agree that this is the point when Drafty shouldve stopped lending. 
Drafty has made an offer to settle the complaint. But having looked at this offer, and 
compared this with the statement of accounts Drafty has provided, it does look like it has 
calculated the compensation incorrectly. Although I cant be certain of this as Drafty hasnt 
provided an explanation of how it has calculated the compensation. 
So my decision is essentially that Drafty should calculate and pay the agreed compensation 
correctly. And it should provide Mr W with a breakdown of the compensation so he can 
check this against the statements that he has. Drafty should put right any errors it has made 
in the earlier offer.
Putting things right
Drafty should:
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on the drawdowns made on the running 
credit account from 21 January 2018;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about the account from 21 January 2018 from 
Mr Ws credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Drafty must provide a calculation of the compensation that explains how the interest has 
been calculated so Mr W can confirm it is correct. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman