DRN-3802540
The complaint
Miss M has complained about the amount of compensation Black Horse Limited paid her for 
the mis-sale of a joint payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Following a complaint about the sale of PPI, Black Horse found that they had mis-sold PPI 
policies across three accounts taken out jointly between Miss M and an ex-partner.
As the accounts were joint, they split the compensation equally (50-50) between Miss M and 
the joint accountholder.
Miss M complains that the ex-partner disappeared and didnt contribute, so she ended up 
paying 100% of the debt herself. So she said she should receive 100% of the compensation.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that, while they sympathised with Miss M, Black Horse were required to split the 
compensation as they did.
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can completely understand where Miss M is coming from. But Im afraid that Black Horse 
have split the compensation appropriately.
I can see from the credit agreements that the accounts here were all joint. With joint 
accounts, even if one accountholder ends up paying more or less than the other, the fact 
remains that both parties were equally liable for paying the debt and the PPI policy. Both 
parties would have benefitted from any successful insurance claim on the PPI, and both 
parties had an interest in the policy. Both parties were equally eligible to complain about the 
way the PPI was sold. And so similarly, both parties were equally entitled to compensation 
for the mis-sale of that PPI.
And since both joint accountholders were equally entitled to the compensation, its both fair 
and practical to split it equally at 50-50.
Its worth bearing in mind that were only here to resolve disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers  but were not here to resolve disputes between the 
customers themselves.
Joint parties will commonly contribute to the household in various ways. For example, while 
one party might cover most or all of a debt repayment, another might cover other key bills. 
While one party might pay all the bills, the other might contribute by looking after the home 
and the childcare, or providing other support  and so on. And of course, their contributions 
may well be unequal. But the point is that its not really possible for our service to know for 
certain who contributed more or less to a partnership. And its not our services place to 
decide that either  we have no jurisdiction to consider any dispute between Miss M and her 
ex-partner. In this decision, I can only decide the dispute between Miss M and Black Horse.
And when it comes to the dispute between Miss M and Black Horse, Im afraid that I think 
Black Horse have already acted fairly. They split the joint compensation equally in the 
normal and expected way, between joint accountholders who were ultimately jointly entitled 
to that compensation.
So while I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss M, and while it is not my intention 
to disappoint her, I cannot fairly tell Black Horse to do anything different here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman