DRN-1901995
 
Complaint
Mr S says Croyland Motors Ltd trading as Croyland Car Megastore (CML) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr S bought the regular premium policy alongside a loan in 2008.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. As Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
After reviewing all the information provided in this complaint, I do not uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. I explain why below.
Ive first looked at whether CML gained Mr Ss consent and whether it made clear to Mr S 
that the policy was optional. Mr S told us he was told he had to take the PPI to get the loan. 
CML has provided a copy of the loan application form. After the credit has been signed for 
there is an area that deals with insurances. PPI is referred to as Optional Credit Protection. 
To get the cover Mr S had to tick a box and sign his name in that section of the agreement. 
The box is ticked and Mr S signed that area for the cover. Had Mr S not wanted the 
Optional cover he could have left blank the tick box and not signed it. And I note that is 
what Mr S chose to do for the Optional GAP Insurance section just above the PPI section 
on the form. Mr S told us he was told he would be unlikely to get the credit without the 
insurance. 
To uphold this case on this issue, Id have to think it was more likely that Mr S was told 
something that directly contradicts the spirit and substance of the credit agreement he 
signed that day. So, having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, and 
whilst acknowledging that things could have happened in just the way Mr S said, based on 
all the submissions made to me in this case, I have seen insufficient evidence to uphold the 
complaint on this issue, and think its more likely that CML made Mr S aware that the PPI 
was optional and that he chose to take it, even though he may not remember that now, many 
years later.Mr S told us that he felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have no doubt this represents 
his best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective area and I have not 
been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having considered the 
above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mr S only took the policy 
because he was put under pressure to do so.
Mr S says CML recommended the policy to Mr S. I have assessed the sale as if a 
recommendation was made to Mr S, because it places a higher responsibility on the seller 
whilst, in this case, making no difference to the outcome. This meant CML needed to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr S. 
I have seen no policy document for the sale. This sale happened over 12 years ago and the 
seller was not the insurer, so theres no reason it should have kept a copy of the policy 
document. Mr S has also been unable to provide a copy of the document as he thinks he 
never received a copy. So, I have assessed the case on the basis on what I know about the 
likely conditions of such a policy at that time. Based on that and what Ive seen of Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time, I think the recommendation was right for him. I explain why 
below.
Mr S was most probably eligible for the cover as he was working, resided in the UK and was 
of working age. And Mrs S doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
exclusions from or limitations to policies like these, in as much as Mr S told us he did not 
suffer from any pre-existing medical condition and was not self-employed. Mr S told us that 
his sick pay would have lasted some time, but that he had no other means he could have 
relied on if he was off work for ill health or if he lost his job. Policies like this often paid out for 
at least up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim and sometimes for longer if ill 
health was the cause of a claim. So I think the policy could have been useful to Mr S.
The cost of the policy appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and appears to have been affordable.
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr S.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr S, CML also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy, so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information CML gave Mr S was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable for Mr S, Im not persuaded better information 
wouldve made a difference to his decision to take out the PPI policy.
So I dont think that Mr S lost out as a result of anything CML might have done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not think the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  so I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against Croyland Motors Ltd 
trading as Croyland Car Megastore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman