DRN-4324564
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows.
Mr B was stopped by the police for driving without insurance in August 2022. His car was 
impounded, and he had to attend court in relation to this incurring costs. Skyfire had 
cancelled his policy after it asked him to provide details to verify his policy and to pay a very 
small increase in premium. As Mr B wasnt happy about this he complained to Skyfire about 
this alongside a number of other issues including the fact that Skyfire took payment from his 
card without authorisation.
Skyfire looked into his complaint and acknowledged that it could have dealt with Mr Bs calls 
about the payment it took from him and a number of other issues on 3 August 2022 better 
and offered £400 by way of compensation. However, it felt it cancelled Mr Bs policy fairly 
after it had problems validating his policy and then he owed a small additional premium. 
However, Mr B still remained unhappy, so he complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and eventually partly upheld his complaint having 
initially upheld it in full. She thought Skyfires offer of compensation was fair for the poor 
service that was identified and that it should provide a letter of indemnity and remove any 
record of the cancellation from any internal or external databases because of the errors in its 
cancellation process.
Skyfire accepted this but as Mr B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive formed a different view to our investigator. But I want to give both sides 
the opportunity to comment before finalising my position.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
This is a difficult case to decide and I note that our investigator has previously fully upheld 
the complaint and suggested Skyfire should take responsibility for the poor cancellation of 
Mr Bs policy and pay any costs he incurred because of the cancellation, including his legal 
fees. But Skyfire didnt accept it should pay Mr Bs additional costs. However, what troubles 
me in this case is that Skyfire accepts its cancellation process wasnt fully adhered to here 
and it is clear that another step in the process should have been taken before cancellation 
took place as Skyfire has highlighted  in effect Skyfire acknowledges it should have 
restarted its cancellation process and not cancelled the policy when it did.
Mr B was asked to provide further documentation for verification purposes. And although he 
didnt provide the required detail using Skyfires online portal he did send it in by email which 
Skyfire eventually realised. I think at this stage it was clear Mr B was trying to cooperate and 
provide everything that Skyfire needed and it has highlighted it should have reset the 
cancellation process at this stage. So, I dont agree the cancellation should have proceeded 
at that stage and Skyfire accepted this position previously. And as our investigator 
highlighted I would have expected Skyfire to have let Mr B know about the cancellation in at 
least two formats given the potential dire consequences of this and Skyfire hasnt shown that 
it did this.
Furthermore, I cant be sure, from the information before me, that the increase in premium 
that eventually caused cancellation was fair or communicated fairly. Skyfire left a message 
for Mr B on the day of cancellation (and it now accepts it should have stalled and restarted 
its cancellation process at that point in time) to ask for a call back. But there was no way Mr 
B would have known how urgent the call back was given the very soft delivery of the 
voicemail requesting a call back. Given Skyfire was cancelling the policy, indeed I presume 
this process was already in action, I would have expected a firmer message and further calls 
before cancellation.
Plus, I know Skyfire wanted to know why Mr B had changed his mileage usage (which 
caused the small change in premium that ultimately led to the cancellation of his policy). But 
I havent seen sufficient evidence to say this was reasonable. Mr B simply reduced his 
mileage use and although I can understand why Skyfire had questions about this I cant be 
sure this was fair. It is quite possible that Mr B was simply using his vehicle less but Skyfire 
didnt really get to the bottom of this. It simply looked to cancel his policy because it 
increased his mileage in line with the previous year which caused a small increase in 
premium.
Given all of this, and the fact Skyfire accepts that the cancellation process was incorrect and 
should have restarted, alongside the fact that I cant be sure its request for a small increase 
in premium was fair, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do is to put Mr B back into the 
position he should have been but for this error.
As such, I think Skyfire should provide a letter of indemnity and remove any cancellation 
markers as it has already agreed to do. But I think it should also pay any costs Mr B has 
incurred because of its error including any costs caused by the impound of his car and any 
legal costs incurred because he had to attend court in relation to driving while uninsured.
Turning to the level of compensation I think Skyfires offer of £400 feels fair. I know Mr B has 
faced a great deal of difficulty and it is accepted that he didnt deliberately drive uninsured. 
However, there were a number of opportunities for him to engage with Skyfire and its 
communications more fully and mitigate his position. So, I think this level of compensation 
feels fair.
Replies
Mr B responded and said that there were a couple of key aspects of the case that he felt 
hadnt been discussed within my provisional decision. He said that Skyfire failed to uphold a reasonable duty of care by not validating his policy when he took out the policy or at least 
highlighting that there was a possibility that this would happen. And questioned why it didnt 
outline its validation requirements in its welcome email as he proceeded on the assumption 
that he was simply covered for the year at that point in time. 
Mr B went on to make the point that Skyfire has a large workforce and that it isnt fair to send 
emails a considerable time after he took out the policy as these can go into spam folders and 
not be read due to peoples very busy lives. And if Skyfire is going to cancel a policy so 
freely, then the process should be clearly outlined in their customer communications, not 
hidden away in some vague T&C policy wording (numbered 11.1 no less!) indicating it might 
contact Mr B at some point. Mr B said that he had to engage in extended phone contact to 
take out the policy so he feels Skyfire should not be able to cancel his policy without a 
similar level of effort. And he highlights that Skyfire only really makes it clear that it is an 
internet only company at complaints stage as opposed to when he took the policy out.  
Finally, Mr B feels that the cancellation of his policy wasnt clear enough and that the 
cancellation should have been detailed in big bright flashing lights as opposed to just a 
discreet comment in the corner. And he questioned again the retention of his bank card 
details on its systems when he asked for them to be removed. 
For its part Skyfire asked for an additional period of time to respond but didnt really 
comment on the decision in any detail when it replied. Although it said again that it shouldnt 
be held responsible for the additional costs Mr B incurred after the policy was cancelled. It 
reiterated that Mr B responded after the policy cancellation about a payment and it said 
again that the policy was cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld. I can understand 
the further points Mr B and Skyfire have raised but it doesnt affect my original thinking on 
this case. And, in the main, Ive already considered the points both sides have made within 
my provisional decision. 
I understand Mr Bs frustration about Skyfire validating the policy after it had gone live, but 
this is common practice in the motor insurance industry and so I cant criticise Skyfire for 
this. And, as Ive already outlined, the cancellation process could and should have been 
better so Im not proposing to go over this again now. Ultimately, Ive noted Mr Bs points 
and I still remain of the view that his complaint should be upheld for the reasons outlined in 
my provisional decision, but I dont propose to increase the level of compensation. And in 
relation to retention of his card details I think Skyfires offer of compensation for the way it 
handled things feels fair, so I wont comment further here about this.
I know Skyfire feels that it shouldnt be held responsible for any additional costs Mr B 
incurred but it accepts that the cancellation process was incorrect and should have been 
restarted. And when I consider this alongside the fact that I cant be sure its request for a 
small increase in premium was fair I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable thing to 
do is to put Mr B back into the position he should have been but for this error. So, I think 
Skyfire should provide a letter of indemnity and remove any cancellation markers (as it has 
already agreed to do). And it should pay any costs Mr B has incurred because of its error 
including any costs caused by the impound of his car and any legal costs incurred because 
he had to attend court in relation to driving while uninsured. Plus, I agree it should pay Mr B £400 compensation as it suggested in recognition of the 
poor service and stress it caused Mr B. I do agree that Mr B missed a number of 
opportunities to engage with Skyfire about the cancellation which is why I havent increased 
the level of compensation. However, but for Skyfires errors leading up to the cancellation 
process Im satisfied that Mr B wouldnt have driven uninsured so it is only fair it should also 
pay any costs he suffered because of this. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. 
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited should provide a letter of indemnity and remove any 
cancellation markers as it has already agreed to do. And pay any costs Mr B incurred 
because of its error including any impound fee or legal costs incurred attending court 
(subject to reasonable proof) in relation to the allegation of driving while uninsured. Plus, I 
agree it should pay Mr B £400 in compensation (total) if it hasnt done this already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman