DRN-4105096
The complaint
Mr G complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc wont provide him with proof of the full No Claims 
Discount (NCD) he earned for his motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for his 
likely future losses.
 
What happened
Mr G took out a policy through Sainsburys and it said it asked him for proof of his claimed 
NCD. Mr G said he didnt receive this letter and he had stated he had 9 years NCD. Three 
years later, Mr G took out cover elsewhere and he asked Sainsburys for proof of his NCD. It 
said this was 9 years, which was the maximum it allowed. It said it would provide Mr G with a 
letter stating the number of claim free years he had if he provided proof of his previous NCD. 
Sainsburys agreed it had given confusing information over the phone, and it offered Mr G 
£50 compensation for this. But Mr G was unhappy that it wouldnt allow him 3 extra years 
NCD, and that it wouldnt allow him to make a complaint.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
maximum NCD Sainsburys allowed was 9 years and it didnt count more than this. So it 
couldnt provide Mr G with proof of 12 years NCD. But he thought it had reasonably offered 
to provide Mr G with a letter stating his number of claim free years if he provided the 
requested evidence from his previous insurer. He thought Sainsburys compensation for the 
confusing information and for not allowing Mr G to make a complaint was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr G replied that Sainsburys hadnt justified its decision not to provide proof of his NCD, but 
it was willing to provide proof of his 9 years NCD without evidence. He asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr G wants to make sure he has his full NCD entitlement so that he 
can get the best possible discount on his motor insurance. But I think he isnt making a 
distinction between his claim free years, which are 12 from his account, and the NCD that 
his broker allows. 
Our Investigator explained that Sainsburys only counts NCD years to a maximum of 9, so 
any years without a claim after that dont entitle the consumer to any further years of NCD. I 
agree that this isnt stated explicitly on Sainsburys website. But Im satisfied that this isnt 
unusual amongst insurers and is in keeping with standard industry practice. 
The welcome letter Sainsburys sent Mr G when he first took out his policy includes a page 
on NCD protection. This includes a table showing the maximum discount the policys 
underwriter allows and this is nine or more years NCD. So further years after 9 dont 
increase the discount allowed. 
Mr G provided an extract from Sainsburys website where it asks consumers to state their 
years NCD, and this gives options for choosing up to 20 years or more. But some insurers 
may offer this amount of NCD years. It doesnt mean that Sainsburys should. 
Mr G said he hadnt received a request from Sainsburys for his proof of NCD when he first 
took out his policy with it. But I can see that this was stated on page 2 of his welcome letter 
and our Investigator has provided Mr G with a copy of this. 
Mr G thought it was strange that Sainsburys accepted his claim that he had 9 years NCD 
when he first took out his policy, but it is asking for proof of this now. But Sainsburys has 
explained that it accepted his statement in good faith and didnt follow this up as the 
underwriter didnt challenge it. 
I think its reasonable for Sainsburys to now ask for this before if provides Mr G with a letter 
stating his claim free years as it has a responsibility to provide an accurate record of a 
drivers history. I think its for Mr G to provide this proof if he wants to receive the letter. 
I agree that Sainsburys gave Mr G unclear information and incorrectly told him he couldnt 
make a complaint. Sainsburys offered Mr G £50 compensation for this. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the impact these errors had. I 
dont require Sainsburys to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman