DRN-3890606
The complaint
Mrs C complains Equity Release (Increments) Limited got involved in the repair of a leak in 
her flat based on incorrect information from the property manager. The cost of the repairs 
and the time they took increased as a result. And Mrs C suffered unnecessary distress.
Mrs Cs been represented by a family member in connection with the events that took place 
and this complaint. For ease Ill refer to Mrs C throughout.
An agent administers Mrs Cs home reversion plan with Equity Release (Increments) Limited 
on their behalf. Where I refer to Equity Release, I include their agent.
What happened
In July 2007 Mrs C took out a home reversion plan in relation to her flat. The plan and the 
flat in which Mrs C lives are, broadly, owned by Equity Release.
In early February 2022 a leak in the flat was affecting Mrs Cs downstairs neighbour. The 
property managers of the block (A) asked her to repair it. Mrs C engaged plumbers to 
investigate. They said the water supply to the block needed to be turned off to carry out the 
repair they thought was necessary. A was concerned about disrupting the other residents. 
They thought an alternative method of isolating the water supply to Mrs Cs flat could be 
used. There was a disagreement about the way forward. 
Mrs Cs plumbers attempted unsuccessfully to carry out a repair on around 12 February. A 
said the damage being caused to the flat below had got worse following their visit. Mrs C 
tried unsuccessfully to progress things with A.
On 14 February As solicitors wrote to Equity Release asking them to get involved. Equity 
Release wrote to Mrs C asking her to carry out the repairs urgently and reminding her of her 
repairing responsibilities under her home reversion plan. They let A know on 16 February 
theyd contacted her. And, at about the same time, A instructed a second plumbing firm to 
investigate the leak.
Mrs C got Equity Releases letter on 17 February. She says it made her anxious and worried 
about losing her flat. The second plumbing firm began investigations. They were more 
extensive than the work Mrs As plumber had carried out and involved digging up some 
concrete screed. Mrs C was concerned about the time works then took; that it had caused 
potential damage to hot water pipes and a new leak in the kitchen; and that it was left 
unfinished, causing her inconvenience.
Equity Release received Mrs Cs authority to deal with her representative on around 23 
February. They looked into whether Mrs C was insured and liaised with Mrs C and the 
insurers about the costs shed incurred. They disputed a quote from the second plumbing 
firm for the costs of the works needed to repair things. And on 28 February they let Mrs C 
know she could use her own plumber who eventually carried out the necessary repairs on 
around 7 March. They were delayed that day due to access issues Mrs C says were caused 
by the caretaker of the block, which increased the costs. But the insurers agreed to meet the 
claim and Mrs C accepted an offer of £5,000 to resolve it.
Mrs C made a complaint to Equity Release about what had happened. She said:
shed suffered an injury due to the temperature of the hot water supply being too high
shed suffered distress due to the actions of other parties and theyd breached the 
Equality Act
Equity Release had instructed A to appoint the second plumbing firm and had done 
so without understanding the situation fully
additional costs had been incurred because her own plumbers hadnt been allowed 
to continue with the work theyd started 
the second plumbing firm had carried out unnecessary work that potentially exposed 
her to hot water pipe failure and she wanted to be indemnified against that happening 
her own plumbers costs had been higher than they should have been due to 
problems accessing the property
Equity Release said they hadnt been involved in anything that happened before 16 February 
2022. They werent responsible for engaging the second plumbing firm or controlling what 
they did. And theyd helped Mrs C recover the costs shed incurred through the insurers. 
They didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint, so she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
To put things right Mrs C wants compensation for distress and personal injury, financial 
compensation and a five-year indemnity against possible failure of the hot water pipes due to 
damage caused by the second plumbing firm. 
Our investigator said Equity Release had a contractual right to get in touch with Mrs C when 
the solicitors had contacted them to let them know about the leak; Mrs C had an obligation to 
keep the property in good repair and condition; and Equity Release had treated Mrs C fairly 
and reasonably by liaising between her and A to get the works done and in mediating an 
insurance settlement. 
Since Mrs C didnt agree, her complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficult time Mrs C had in dealing with the leak to her flat. I can 
understand it was upsetting and stressful. Shes raised concerns about the actions of several 
parties. I cant consider her complaint about A or the plumbers. They arent regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority and I only have the power to look into complaints about firms 
who are. So, Im only considering Mrs Cs complaint about Equity Release here.
For context, broadly, Mrs C occupies her flat under a lease from Equity Release (the 
underlease). Equity Release owns most of the equity in Mrs Cs flat (and the pipework in it) 
under a lease from the superior landlord (the headlease). 
Under the terms of the home reversion plan Mrs C is responsible for repairing and 
maintaining her home in line with the terms of the underlease. The underlease also requires 
her to observe Equity Releases obligations to the superior landlord under the headlease. 
Under the headlease, Equity Release is responsible for keeping the property in good repair 
and condition, and indemnifying the superior landlord, management company and other residents against any loss or damage resulting from any water leaks caused by their neglect 
default or omission. Put simply, Equity Release has to ensure Mrs C complies with her 
repairing obligations in order to meet their own obligations to the superior landlord. 
Ill consider Mrs Cs concerns against that background:
The personal injury Mrs C suffered in January 2022
Im sorry to hear about the injury Mrs C suffered from the hot water. It doesnt seem to be 
related to the leak. Even if it was, it happened before Equity Release became involved in 
events on around 16 February 2022. And it isnt something that arises out of the relationship 
between Equity Release and Mrs C under the home reversion plan. Its an issue with the 
management of the building she lives in. So, its not something I can hold Equity Release 
responsible for.
Equity Releases letter to Mrs C dated 16 February 2022 and their treatment 
of her
I acknowledge Mrs C found the 16 February letter upsetting. She says Equity Release ought 
to have understood her side of the story before getting involved. And shes suggested 
thereve been breaches of the Equality Act due to her age, although she hasnt made any 
specific allegations about how Equity Release breached the Act. 
Only a court can decide if the Act has been breached. But I can take it into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I think it was reasonable for Equity Release to write to Mrs C given the approach theyd 
received from As solicitors and bearing in mind their and Mrs Cs obligations under the 
leases. Equity Release would reasonably have wanted to ensure the flat was in a good state 
of repair since it provides security for the sums theyve released to Mrs B under the home 
reversion plan. Theyd want to avoid circumstances arising that would allow the freeholder to 
take possession of the flat for breach of covenant, which would clearly affect Mrs B as well.
Equity Releases letter to Mrs C was written in factual terms reminding her of her obligations. 
And they gave Mrs C time to repair the leak before they took action themselves. I think that 
was fair. There was no suggestion she might lose her flat, as she feared, only that Equity 
Release would ask her to pay the repair costs if they incurred them.
Once Equity Release had heard from Mrs Cs representative in reply and understood her 
circumstances, they responded promptly to her request for them to deal with her 
representative by sending out an authorisation form straight away. Its not clear why it took 
until 23 February for the authorisation to be confirmed. But it was reasonable for Equity 
Release to have that authority before speaking to Mrs Cs representative to avoid any 
breaches of confidentiality or data protection rules. 
Once they had authority, and more information about the situation, Equity Release liaised 
with A to help to progress the repair work, challenged the costs of the repairs the second 
plumbing firm were quoting and later helped Mrs C secure a higher insurance settlement 
through the buildings insurers than was originally offered. 
Overall, Equity Release acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Mrs C.
Equity Releases involvement in engaging the second plumbing firm and 
controlling the works they carried out, and in the works of repair carried out by 
Mrs Cs plumber Ive considered the correspondence that passed between the parties carefully.
I can see the issue of the leak arose in early February before Equity Release knew anything 
about the problem. The first they knew about it was the solicitors letter of 14 February.
In their email to A dated 16 February Equity Release wrote:
I am writing with regards to the letter received from [the] Solicitors dated 14th 
February 2022. 
I can confirm that I have written to Mrs [C] giving her 7 days to remedy the repair or 
we will appoint a representative to enter the property. In order to resolve the matter 
as easily as possible, should it be required, I would be happy to appoint a mutually 
agreeable contractor. It may be that you have someone who has previously been 
involved with the property and may [have] a good idea as to the issue. I look forward 
to your suggestions on this.
I will await to hear from Mrs [C].
Im satisfied that Equity Release werent instructing A to engage plumbers as Mrs Cs 
suggested. They were waiting to hear from Mrs C before taking any action. And they were 
asking A to suggest a plumber if they needed to take that step. Given the second plumbing 
firm started work on around 17 February, it seems A had already lined them up. A were 
responsible for engaging the firm.
From what Ive seen, Mrs C knew then about the work the second plumbing firm were doing 
as her representative was in touch with A about what was happening, and shed given them 
access to her flat. Equity Release werent aware until A updated them several days later - on 
around 23 February. At that stage Equity Release said they were happy for the second 
plumbing firm to continue and provide a quote for repairs. That doesnt amount to engaging 
the second plumbing firm initially or providing it or A with instructions as work continued.
Mrs C points to an email A sent when Equity Release challenged the second plumbing firms 
estimate for repairs costs that said, We followed your suggestions to have a plumber 
familiar with the building locate the leaks. They provided their quote to repair the leaks. Now 
you say it is too expensive. I dont think thats persuasive evidence Equity Release 
appointed or agreed the second plumbing firms appointment. It doesnt reflect what Equity 
Release said in their 16 February email. And Im not aware of any other evidence that 
suggests they were involved in the second plumbing firms appointment. They simply agreed 
it could carry on with work once they knew about it.
Even if Equity Release had agreed to the second plumbing firms appointment, that wouldnt 
have made them responsible for the allegedly poor works it carried out or the damage Mrs C 
says it has potentially caused to the hot water pipes. Even if there was evidence to prove 
Mrs Cs allegations, theres no persuasive evidence the second plumbing firm was engaged 
by Equity Release or acting on their instructions. 
Mrs Cs plumbers were delayed in accessing the property to carry out repairs
I can understand it was frustrating that Mrs Cs plumbers were delayed in getting access to 
the property on the day they were repairing the leaks and damage. But that was because of 
the property managers - Equity Release had no involvement in that. So, I dont hold them 
responsible for any additional costs that may have been incurred as a result. Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs C will be disappointed, I dont uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman