DRN-2228610
The complaint
Ms R alleges she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
I know Ms R has complained about another PPI policy too and she will already have 
received a response to that complaint from me separately. 
In this decision Im addressing a different PPI policy, one Ms R took out with a Debenhams 
store card, in May 2004 (ending 5790). The credit facility was provided by a high street 
bank, but there has been a change in the company which is now responsible for answering 
these types of complaint. The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD.
Ill therefore refer to AXA throughout this final decision for consistency.  
What happened
The store card was taken out in a store setting and obtained by filling out an application 
leaflet. 
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it should be 
upheld. AXA disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided to uphold 
Ms Rs complaint.
Ms R makes a number of points of complaint and Ive considered them all with care. 
However, the crux of this matter, in my view, really falls on the information Ms R was given 
at the time of the sale. Although I can see Ms R signed the application form to agree to 
having PPI, I dont think she had enough information to make an informed decision. AXA 
was therefore at fault.
I say this because this particular PPI policy was expensive. It was considerably more 
expensive than her previous case Ive referred to above, and also more expensive than 
many other types of credit and store cards available at around that time.
To be fair to the business, the PPI on this card account did offer a level of benefit that was 
relatively more generous than certain comparable PPI policies. For example, it offered to pay 
15%, rather than say 5 or 10%, of the outstanding balance on the card account during a 
successful claim period. But nevertheless, Ms R was entitled to information that was clear, 
fair and not misleading so she could think clearly about what to do. 
Sometimes, we conclude that even if the information wasnt clear enough, consumers like 
Ms R would have still found use and value in the PPI cover and so these shortcomings 
probably wouldnt have made much difference to what the consumer went on to do  we 
sometimes think they would have still bought the cover anyway.
However, in this case I can see Ms Rs job was with a public sector body where I agree the 
protections from job loss or illness would have been good. And I therefore think the 
shortcomings in the information about the PPI would have made a significant difference. At 
£1.50 for every £100 of outstanding balance on the card, I think Ms R would have concluded 
that this was very expensive considering her job-related protections were strong. 
In short, I think she would have probably considered the PPI to be poor value.
AXAs only rejection point to the complaint being upheld in this way is that she was not in the 
job long enough to enjoy such benefits. However, I note she was asked no questions at all 
about her employment at the time of the sale (on the form) which I consider to be a further 
deficiency. If AXA considers the point to be important now, then I would have expected it to 
have also been important at the time and therefore brought up during the sale process. 
In my view, the objection by AXA also lacks rationale. Ms R had been so employed for 8 
months at the point of sale. AXA has failed to bring any evidence or context as to why it 
considers this level of service to be incompatible with the 6 months full pay and 6 months 
half sick-pay provision Ms R says she had. In my own experience, this type of employer 
usually required a six-month probationary period after which full benefits were applied. AXA 
asked no questions at the time and provides no evidence to the contrary now, so I dont think 
asking Ms R to produce a contract from 16 years ago is necessary in the circumstances. I 
think shes right.
Ive looked carefully at this complaint and my view is that AXA failed to provide important 
information about the PPIs cost. This was particularly relevant because Ms R had taken on 
a job where the benefits were strong in relation to being made redundant or being too ill to 
work. If given the right information, Ms R probably wouldnt have agreed to buy the policy.
This PPI was mis-sold.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms R in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already and AXA should:
Pay Ms R the amount she paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest 8% a year from ;
If Ms R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her;
I understand some of the commission AXA received from the sale has already been 
refunded to Ms R. This can be subtracted from the total it now owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms R a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Ms Rs complaint and I direct AXA France IARD to pay the compensation above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman