DRN-4064483
The complaint
Mr A complains that Zopa Bank Limited charged him a loan fee without telling him.
What happened
Mr A says he took out a Zopa loan for £11,000 but later found out it charged him a fee of 
£770. He would like the fee refunded and says he wasnt provided with a copy of the loan 
agreement. Mr A says Zopa is trying to take advantage of him.
Zopa says Mr A agreed to the account terms and conditions which included the loan fee. It 
says Mr A was sent a copy of the terms and conditions when he agreed to them. Zopa says 
it ought to have refunded some of the fee when the loan was repaid early and has offered Mr 
A £50 compensation as well as part of the fee of £75.12. It also says it has offered Mr A £30 
compensation for how it dealt with him during a telephone call.
Mr A brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought Zopa had told Mr A about the 
fee before the loan was agreed to. The investigator thought the offer to refund part of it and 
the compensation offer appropriate.
Mr A doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that Zopa has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer. I 
appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Zopas loan application process and at its account terms and 
conditions. Im satisfied that Zopa made clear there is a loan fee, and that Mr A would have 
had to agree to the loan terms and conditions before being approved for the loan. I cant 
fairly hold Zopa responsible for Mr A not appreciating there was a loan fee and am satisfied 
that Zopa hasnt acted unfairly or made a mistake by applying the fee,
I appreciate Mr A says he didnt receive a copy of the loan agreement but having looked at 
Zopas records Im satisfied that it was sent to him. I can also see that there is clear 
reference on Zopas account statements, which Mr A would have received, to the loan fee of 
£770. And that statement was sent to Mr A within days of him taking out the loan in 2019. I 
would have expected Mr A to have looked at that document and clarified the position with 
Zopa if he didnt appreciate the fee or receive his account terms and conditions.
There is no dispute here that Zopa ought to have refunded part of the fee. Im satisfied it has 
fairly agreed to refund a proportion of it and has fairly agreed to pay £50 compensation. I 
dont think Mr A suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place and think that the 
compensation offer is fair and reasonable. I appreciate that is not the main part of this 
complaint.
I dont intend commenting on the £30 compensation offer for how the telephone call was 
dealt with as Mr A hasnt complained to us about it. No doubt he will decide if he wishes to 
accept that offer and speak to Zopa about it.
Overall, Im satisfied that Zopa made sufficiently clear there was a loan fee and that Mr A 
agreed to the account terms and conditions about it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Zopa Bank Limited has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer in total of £125.12. Mr As acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman