DRN-4531079
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as T complains that Advanced Payments Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus) allowed payments out of their account which were not authorised by 
them. They say that the payments were unusual to the normal account activity and the bank 
failed to prevent them. They are also unhappy with the way Cashplus dealt with the matter 
after being advised of the fraud.
What happened
In June 2022, the director of T, who I will refer to as S, was contacted by a fraudster 
pretending to be a staff member of Cashplus. S said that he was busy at that time and asked 
the caller to call back later.
Later that evening, S received a text message purportedly from Cashplus advising him that 
his request to change his phone number on Ts accounts had been received, and an adviser 
would contact him shortly. S attempted to message back to say that he hadnt requested 
this, but the message failed to be delivered.
The fraudster then rang S. S says that the call appeared to come from Cashplus and so he 
had no reason to doubt the authenticity of the call. The caller explained that there were 
fraudulent attempts to purchase goods on Ss cards, but these had been flagged as 
suspicious and blocked by Cashplus. The caller said that this happened because someone 
had changed the mobile number connected to Ts bank accounts and then attempted to 
make these payments. The caller (pretending to be from Cashplus) offered to remove that 
number and reinstate Ss number back on to the account.
The caller said that S would shortly receive an email which he shouldnt act upon as it would 
be from the fraudster. He was advised to forward that email to an email address the caller 
gave. S did as he was advised.
Within minutes S was sent a (genuine) text message by Cashplus, which provided a 
passcode. The message asked S not to share the passcode with anyone and stated that the 
code should only be entered on-screen when prompted. S says he did not see this text 
message and as such did not give out any passcode to the caller.
Shortly afterwards S received a genuine email from Cashplus stating that he had just logged 
in to the Cashplus app using a new device (an iPhone 6s). The email said that he should call 
Cashplus immediately if he didnt recognise this login. Ss phone was not an iPhone 6s but it 
appears that he took no action following this email.
Company T had two accounts with Cashplus. The above process was repeated in relation to 
the second account.
S says that he was then told to tap the links provided in two text messages he was sent. He 
says that the caller claimed that this would de-register the fraudsters mobile and reinstate 
his. These texts appear to have come from the fraudster. However, S isnt able to produce a 
copy of these texts. He says that they were somehow deleted by the fraudster afterwards. 
S says the call ended shortly after he tapped the links in the two texts. The next morning S 
was unable to make a payment through the cards linked to Ts accounts. He also couldnt 
log into the app on his phone. He contacted Cashplus and he was advised that there were 
insufficient funds available in Ts accounts. That was when the fraud came to light.
It appears that unknown to S, the caller had removed his device from the two accounts and 
registered their phone, through which they had access to Ts accounts. They had then made 
two payments: £7,350 from account 1 and £530 from account 2.
Cashplus was unable to recover any money from the recipients bank. Following an 
investigation, it concluded that T was liable for the two payments. It said that this was 
because S, acting on behalf of T, had failed with gross negligence to protect the security 
details of Ts accounts - in particular, S had provided the fraudster with the passcode. 
S denied that he shared any passcode and complained to Cashplus along the lines 
mentioned earlier. But Cashplus said that it hadnt done anything wrong. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it wouldnt be fair to 
ask Cashplus to reimburse the sum lost by T. They said, in summary:
It is not in dispute that the two payments were unauthorised and made by a third party. 
Therefore, according to the Payment Services Regulations 2017, T wouldnt be liable for 
payments that they didnt authorise, unless they failed with intent or gross negligence to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep their personalised security details safe. T 
didnt fail with intent here. Therefore, the question is whether T, or S on behalf of T, 
acted with gross negligence.
The very first step in the process of registering a new device was to enter the correct 
username and password for the account in question. So, it follows that the fraudster had 
to have known both usernames and passwords for the two accounts. It is not clear how 
the fraudster managed to obtain this information.
The second step was an email from Cashplus which S did receive. The email was 
worded in a way that it was sent to the device which needed to be registered to the 
account as the new device. The email asked S to ensure that he was on the same 
mobile with which he logged into the account, and then press a button which said, trust 
this device.
S says that the caller alerted him to this email. He says that the caller told him that this 
email was sent by a fraudster. He was told that within the message there would be a 
trust this device button but S should not press that button. Instead, he should forward 
the email on to an email address the caller provided. The caller told him that doing this 
would stop the fraudster accessing Ts accounts.
This ought to have raised some concerns to S. Firstly, what the caller said contradicted 
what S was told earlier  which was that a fraudster had already changed the number 
connected to his bank accounts. Secondly, if this was an email from a fraudulent third 
party, it raised the question of how a legitimate member of Cashplus could reasonably 
know its contents and the time it was going to be sent to S so accurately. Further, it is 
also reasonable to expect that S read the contents of the email before forwarding it, 
given the circumstances of the call. Finally, there was no reason for S to forward the email at all. If it was from a fraudster as suggested by the caller, the normal advice would 
have been to simply delete it. Despite these inconsistencies, S forwarded the email as 
he was advised.
After S forwarded the email, he received a genuine text from Cashplus providing a 
passcode. He was asked not to share that code with anyone. There is no dispute about 
the contents of this text and the evidence shows it was received to Ss phone. Cashplus 
says that entering the code on to the new device is a necessary part of registering it as a 
trusted device. In addition, the evidence shows that a new device logged into the 
account only after the code was sent. So, it seems most likely that the caller obtained the 
code sent to Ss phone. 
S disputes sharing the code with the caller but based on available evidence, it appears 
more likely than not that it was the only way the caller had obtained the code. Because S 
shared the passcode not once but twice (for the two accounts), the fraudster was able to 
complete the verification process and link their device to the accounts and go on to make 
the two payments.  Taking all of the above into account, it is reasonable to conclude that 
S failed with gross negligence to keep the security details of each account safe. 
Therefore, Cashplus wasnt obliged to reimburse the unauthorised payments.
Having reviewed the statements of each account for the six months prior to the 
unauthorised payments, it couldnt be said that the disputed payments were particularly 
unusual to normal account activity. So, it couldnt be said that Cashplus failed by 
allowing these transactions.
S has also said that Cashplus didnt help adequately to recover the funds after he 
reported the fraud. It does appear that Cashplus could have done better in this respect. 
The evidence shows that it initially contacted a wrong bank thereby wasting time for over 
a month before it contacted the correct recipient bank. When the correct bank was 
contacted, Cashplus never received a reply. However, during our investigation, the 
recipients bank has confirmed that Ts funds were removed out of the recipients 
account even before S reported the fraud to Cashplus. So, the banks error didnt make a 
difference to the outcome.
S did not agree to the conclusions reached by the investigator. He said that the payments 
were not in line with the normal account activity and so Cashplus ought to have checked 
what was going on. He was also unhappy that Cashplus contacted the wrong bank in the 
first instance. He feels that Cashplus should accept some responsibility for Ts loss.
S also said that he was in contact with his phone provider to provide details on the calls he 
received from the fraudster on the day. However, to date he hasnt provided that information 
despite reminders. That said, the investigator has accepted that the said calls did take place. 
So, I dont think I need that information in order to decide the outcome here.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision partly upholding the complaint, which forms part of this 
decision. I said: 
I agree with the investigator that Ss actions, taken together, meant that he acted with 
gross negligence. In addition to what the investigator has said, I also note that after the 
fraudster registered their device, S received another email from Cashplus which said: 
Youve just logged in to the Cashplus app using a new device . The email identified 
the said device as iPhone 6S. It further said that If you dont recognise this log-in call our customer team immediately ... And S received an identical second email in relation to the 
other account. 
However, Mr Ss phone was not an iPhone 6S and he had not logged into the accounts. I 
consider that this too ought to have alerted S that what he was seeing didnt match the 
narration provided by the caller. But there is no evidence that he acted following this 
warning.
Moving on to whether Cashplus in any case could have helped prevent the loss to T, I see 
that the investigator has concluded that the said transactions werent unusual to the 
normal account activity and so it couldnt be said that Cashplus failed by allowing these 
transactions. S however disagrees. He says that the payments were unusual to normal 
account activity.
I have reviewed the previous account activity on both the accounts as part of my 
consideration to decide whether these payments were unusual to the extent that Cashplus 
ought to have intervened to verify that it was really their customer who was making the 
payments.
I have first considered the account from which the larger payment (£7,350) was made. 
Cashplus has provided us with a statement showing historical transactions on the 
account. However, from the statement it is difficult to know which of the outgoing 
payments were faster payments and which were through other modes of payments such 
as card transactions. It would have been useful to know this information because the 
disputed transactions were faster payments. So, knowing which past payments were 
faster payments would have enabled a like for like comparison.
Nevertheless, I have compared the disputed payments against all the prior payments 
made over a period of six months which I consider is a sufficient period of time to 
understand the normal account activity.
I see that this was a busy account with many transactions. However, most of the 
transactions tended to be of small value, typically below £1,000. The payment of £7,350 
was one of the highest during the period. There were few other payments of similar value 
but from what I could see, they were made to existing payees  for example to HMRC, to 
a savings account of a director or to another account of T. Whereas this payment of 
£7,350 was to a new payee.
I dont think that in itself automatically ought to have been a concern to Cashplus. 
However, this large payment happened immediately following a change of device attached 
to the account. And the payment completely wiped out the balance on the account which 
was highly unusual to the account. The account had consistently maintained a healthy 
balance. 
I think that the combination of the change of device attached to account, quickly followed 
by an attempt to make a large payment to a new payee and the payment unusually wiping 
out the account balance was an indication that the customers account could be at risk of 
fraud. Therefore, I consider it reasonable to expect Cashplus intervened to verify with S 
whether he was making the payment on behalf of T. Had the bank done so, I consider the 
fraud would have come to light as S would have realised that payments were being made 
out of the account unknown to him. This in turn would have prevented the loss to T. But 
Cashplus failed to do so. Therefore, I consider it fair that it should bear some responsibility 
for the loss incurred by T.However, I dont think that the payment of £530 from the second account stood out as 
unusual compared to the prior activity on that account. It was small in value, in line with 
the normal account activity and there were several past transactions of much higher value 
regularly being made out of the account. On balance, I agree with the investigator that it 
couldnt be said Cashplus failed by allowing this payment. 
I can see why S is unhappy with the way Cashplus dealt with the matter after it was 
advised of the fraud, especially as it contacted the wrong bank. However as pointed out by 
the investigator, even if Cashplus had acted correctly in the first instance, the funds 
couldnt have been recovered as they were removed from the recipients account even 
before the fraud came to light.
So, in summary, I have provisionally concluded that S acted with gross negligence. On the 
other hand, Cashplus too could have done more to prevent the loss to T in relation to the 
£7,350 payment  but not in relation to the £530 payment. Therefore, I consider it fair that 
Cashplus reimburses £3,675 to T, being 50% of £7,350. It should also pay simple interest 
at 8% p.a. on this amount. Interest should be paid from the date of the transaction to the 
date of settlement.
Responses to provisional decision 
Both parties accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. I remain of the view that the settlement set out in my provisional decision 
represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. In summary, I find that S acted 
with gross negligence and as such Cashplus isnt obliged to reimburse the unauthorised 
payments. However, Cashplus could have done more to prevent the loss to T in relation to 
the £7,350 payment  but not in relation to the £530 payment. Therefore, I consider it fair 
that it reimburses £3,675 to T, being 50% of £7,350, together with interest. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. In full and final settlement of it, 
Advanced Payments Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) should pay £3,675 to T. It 
should also pay simple interest on this amount at 8% p.a. Interest should be paid from the 
date of the transaction to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman