DRN-3215750
The complaint
Mr G complains that he didnt receive the full cash incentive he expected to when he 
switched his accounts from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to another bank. 
What happened
Mr G held a number of accounts with RBS. Throughout 2019, Mr G received 
correspondence from RBS in relation to a cash incentive that was available to certain eligible 
customers for moving their accounts to another bank.
In March 2020, Mr Gs accounts with RBS were closed and successfully switched to another 
bank. A cash incentive was paid into one of Mr Gs new accounts, but nothing was received 
into the other account. Mr Gs new bank were unable to explain why he had only received 
one cash incentive, so they contacted RBS on Mr Gs behalf to query it.
After a couple of months, Mr Gs new bank informed him that RBS had explained that he 
was only eligible for a single incentive payment as his two sole trader business accounts 
were linked to a single ID reference.
Mr G complained to RBS, who ultimately gave the same explanation for the single incentive 
payment in their final response letter to Mr G.
Mr G was unhappy with this explanation, so he brought his complaint to our service. Mr G 
told us he received two different reference numbers for the two accounts, and that the 
transfers were completed separately. He said that at no stage was he told that he would only 
receive one incentive payment and he said he would never have separated his loan account 
from his current account had he known this.
One of our investigators looked into the matter but said he didnt think RBS had done 
anything wrong. He said the scheme rules were applied fairly and the correct incentive was 
paid to Mr G. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained my reasons below.
Account set up
I understand that Mr G has said that he wasnt aware of how the accounts were set up by 
RBS and didnt know that the accounts were linked. RBS has been unable to provide me 
with the original documents from when the accounts were opened. However, I think this is 
understandable given the account opening dates back to January 2004. And under data 
protection rules, there is a limited amount of time for which RBS can hold onto Mr Gs data. 
Although, Ive been unable see the account opening documents, I have seen evidence to 
show that both accounts were opened on the same day under the same business entity, a 
sole trader, Mr G. Both accounts were opened in Mr Gs name and had the same business 
identification number. As such, both accounts appeared as part of the same business 
portfolio.
Legally both accounts belonged to the same business entity, Mr G. The relationship here 
was between Mr G, the business entity, and RBS. So, I think it was reasonable for RBS to 
have treated Mr Gs accounts as linked regardless of the purposes of the accounts.
Cash incentive
Mr G also held a number of joint accounts with RBS at this time. Each of these accounts had 
their own business identification number so Mr G wouldve received communications about 
the switching process for all of these accounts. However, in relation to the sole trader 
accounts, RBS told us that all literature about the scheme was only sent to account ending 
*****503. 
RBS have provided me with the dates and copies of the literature that was sent to Mr G in 
relation to the switching scheme. RBS explained that these communications were sent to 
account ending *****503 as it was identified as being the primary account of that specific 
relationship. This was because that account had the most accumulated turnover in the 
relevant calculation period. 
The rules of the scheme stated that each business entity was only eligible to receive one 
cash incentive. The use of the term business here relates to the business entity and not to 
the individual business accounts. 
I can see how Mr G may have found the use of the word business to be misleading and I 
do think that RBS could have been clearer in their communications. However, the literature 
explained that only the primary account, which was the main business account held with 
RBS, was eligible to receive a cash incentive. Therefore, all literature about the scheme was 
only sent to that account.
In this case, Im satisfied that Mr G was the business entity and as such was only entitled to 
receive one cash incentive for the primary account in the relationship. 
Switching process
The business banking switch website was set up to recognise all accounts associated with a 
business entity. So regardless of the account number entered, if it was part of the portfolio 
for the business entity that was eligible to receive a cash incentive, the user was directed to 
the offer that was available if the primary account of that business entity was switched.
I appreciate Mr G says that this wasnt clear to him, and I can see how this system mightve 
caused confusion. However, I dont think that the information RBS provided to him about his 
entitlement prior to him entering any information into the website was misleading. I say this as this scheme was only open to eligible businesses who, for the most part, were 
contacted directly by RBS. In this case, all communications sent to Mr G by RBS inviting 
him, as a sole trader, to participate in the scheme were sent in relation to account ending 
*****503. 
Although only one account for each business entity was eligible for the incentive, each 
current account needed to be processed separately through the online switching scheme. 
So, this was the reason why the online switch form generated two separate processes, and it 
was not an indicator that both accounts were eligible for individual cash incentives.
Loan account
Mr G told us he would never had separated his loan account from his current account 
without the benefit of having the incentive payment. He said RBS had left him in a position 
where he would have limited support from either bank should he need it, not least because 
RBS had retained his security against the loan.
I can see that before Mr G proceeded with the switch, he asked RBS if his loan account 
would also be switched over to the new bank. RBS explained that this would not happen 
automatically. They explained that he would need to apply for a loan with the new bank 
before paying off and closing his loan with RBS should he wish to move his lending facilities.
Im satisfied that it was Mr Gs decision not to move the loan and that he had the opportunity 
to consider the implications of separating the accounts before he switched the accounts. As 
such, it wouldnt be fair for me to hold RBS accountable for any issues the separation of the 
accounts may cause for Mr G.
Conclusion
So, to conclude, I havent seen anything to indicate that RBS have treated Mr G unfairly or 
unreasonably here. Im satisfied that RBS applied the scheme rules correctly and that Mr G 
was only ever eligible to receive one cash incentive for switching the sole trader accounts to 
another bank as part of this scheme.
As a result, I wont be asking RBS to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman