DRN-1169056
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service provided by Etico Group Limited when they dealt with his 
claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
 In October 2018 Etico did a PPI check for Mr B. This identified that Mr B had been sold PPI 
and, in November 2018, Mr B instructed Etico to make a mis-selling claim. Etico prepared 
and submitted the claim and, in January 2019, the claim was successful.
The PPI provider was unable to process the compensation payment until theyd seen 
identification for Mr B. This was sent on 27 February and the PPI provider said the payment 
could take up to 28 days to process. But Mr B didnt receive his compensation and, on 9 
April, Etico chased the PPI provider. The PPI provider said that Mr Bs signature didnt match 
his identification, and asked for a copy of his marriage certificate  this couldnt be provided 
because Mr B wasnt married.
Etico sent a new Acceptance Form to Mr B on 12 April, and he returned this on 29 April. 
Etico sent this to the PPI provider, and Mr B received his compensation on 20 May.
Mr B has complained about the length of time it took for him to receive his compensation 
from the PPI provider, and that hes lost out on four months interest because of this. Hes 
also complained that Etico asked him for his marriage certificate, when he wasnt married, 
and that they harassed him for payment before hed received the compensation.
Etico said theyd acted within their terms and conditions and didnt agree they had caused 
any delay. But they did offer to reduce their fees as a gesture of goodwill. Mr B wasnt happy 
with this response, and brought his complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a 
Financial Ombudsman Service).
Our investigator found that Etico had acted reasonably. He felt theyd kept Mr B informed 
about what was happening, and had acted promptly to deal with any request. He hadnt seen 
anything to show that Etico had harassed Mr B for payment, instead telling him that they 
didnt expect him to pay until he received the compensation. He also found that the request 
for a marriage certificate was made by the PPI provider, and Etico quickly resolved this when 
Mr B said he didnt have one. So he didnt think Etico should do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said that the investigators view doesnt reflect 
his experience, such as the number of calls he received, so Etico and the PPI provider cant 
have provided accurate and complete records. Hes also said he was asked twice to 
provide a marriage certificate, and that no-one seems to be taking ownership of exactly what 
happened with his signature. He believes that a statement from the PPI provider explaining 
the process they followed is needed to help clear up the delays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I would also like to clarify that Im looking into the service provided by Etico, not the PPI provider. Because of this I dont feel its 
necessary to obtain statements of process from the PPI provider and Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for Etico to act upon the information given to them.
Ive seen a copy of the letter the PPI provider sent to Mr B on 30 January 2019. This 
confirmed that PPI had been mis-sold and made an offer of compensation. This letter also 
included an Acceptance Form which Mr B was asked to sign and return, along with copies of 
his identification and marriage certificate. The letter also explained that the compensation 
would normally be paid 28 days after the PPI provider received all of the signed paperwork.
Im satisfied that this letter explained the process to Mr B, and that the requirement for 
identification, a marriage certificate and the 28 day timescale were put in place by the PPI 
provider not Etico. So I cant hold Etico responsible for the need to follow this process.
Etico say they received a copy of the 30 January letter on 6 February. Ive seen they wrote 
to Mr B on 6 February about the offer, and included their invoice. Ive also seen that Etico 
asked Mr B for the Acceptance Form and a copy of his identification, and they sent these to 
the PPI provider on 27 February.
Etico called the PPI provider to chase up the compensation payment on 6 April. The PPI 
provider said they wrote to both Etico and Mr B on 11 March to say the signatures didnt 
match, and to request a new Acceptance Form. They also asked for a copy of Mr Bs 
marriage certificate so they could process the compensation payment. Neither Etico nor Mr 
B received a copy of the 11 March letter.
Ive also listed to a number of calls that took place between Mr B and Etico. While I wont 
refer to every call in detail, Ive noted the following:
12 February  Mr B discussed the offer hed received from the PPI provider and Etico 
explained the amount offered was correct. Mr B queried the 28 days delay before the 
compensation would be sent, and he was told he wasnt expected to pay Eticos 
invoice until hed received the compensation.
6 March  Etico confirmed theyd sent the documentation to the PPI provider and 
asked if Mr B had received the compensation (he hadnt).
20 March  Etico asked Mr B if hed received the compensation (he hadnt).
6 April (call 1)  Etico told Mr B that the PPI providers didnt accept his signature, and 
a new Acceptance Form would be needed. Mr B also told Etico that he didnt have a 
marriage certificate.
6 April (call 2)  Etico told Mr b that theyd confirmed the PPI provider didnt need a 
marriage certificate, but that a new Acceptance Form would be needed with a 
signature that matched the identification he provided.
29 April  Mr B asked Etico if theyd received the Acceptance Form hed sent a few 
weeks back and Etico confirmed they had. 
 
In these calls Mr B also told Etico, on three occasions, that hed continued to pay PPI 
premiums after the offer had been made. On each occasion Etico explained that they were 
unable to sort this as part of his claim, and he needed to contact the PPI provider direct so 
he could cancel the policy and get a refund. On two of these occasions Etico also provided 
Mr B with the contact details hed need to be able to do this. I think this was reasonable as 
Etico were unable to cancel the policy on Mr Bs behalf.
Based on what Ive seen, I agree with the investigator that Etico provided a reasonable 
service. The delay in the compensation payment was down to the PPI provider not accepting 
Mr B signature and asking for a marriage certificate that wasnt required. There was further delay because the letter the PPI provider say they sent in March, asking for a new 
Acceptance Form, wasnt received by either Mr B or Etico. As Etico knew that the PPI 
provider could take 28 days to make the payment, it was reasonable they contacted Mr B to 
see if hed had the compensation, but didnt contact the PPI provider until the 28 days has 
gone by. Etico have offered Mr B a reduction in his fees, and its now his choice whether to 
accept this or not.
 My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Etico Group Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman