DRN-2356600
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that they were told they each had to have a level term assurance 
policy when they took out a loan with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K applied for a commercial loan with HSBC. They were advised to start 
decreasing term assurance policies to provide life cover and critical illness cover for the loan. 
They say they were healthy at the time and were told they had to take out the policies.
The adviser recommended the policies to provide protection in the event either Mr or Mrs K 
were to die or be diagnosed with any of the critical illnesses covered by the policies.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She concluded that the policies were 
suitable and the available evidence did not show Mr and Mrs K were told that they had to 
have these policies.
Mr and Mrs K did not accept the investigators conclusions. They said:
They were told that it was a requirement to have life protection with this loan.
They were not told they could have cancelled this policy. They were under the 
impression that they had to keep this for the duration of the loan.
Once they had repaid the loan, they cancelled the policies immediately.
HSBC have confirmed that Mr and Mrs K did not have to have the policies as a condition of 
the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the file, I agree with our investigator that the evidence does not show that 
Mr and Mrs K were told they had to have the life protection as a condition of being granted 
the loan.
HSBC provided advice to Mr and Mrs K. The policies were recommended to provide cover in 
the event either of them died or suffered from a critical illness covered in the policy terms. 
This was to meet the objective of being able to repay the loan. I am satisfied that the advice 
was suitable in the circumstances.
The evidence does not indicate that Mr and Mrs K were told that they had to have the 
policies, but rather the adviser recommended them. I agree with our investigator that there 
isnt enough evidence to support their complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Roy Milne
Ombudsman