DRN-3884555
The complaint
Mr H complains that esure Insurance Limited made an unfair offer to settle a claim he made 
on a car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H insured his car with esure. He made a claim for damage and esure declared it a write 
off. It offered £1,455 in settlement of the claim, saying that was the market value of the car at 
the time of the loss.
Mr H complained to esure. He said his car was worth around £7,500, in part because hed 
spent significant sums on replacing the engine and upgrading the in-car entertainment (ICE) 
system.
When esure rejected his complaint, Mr H referred it to our service. Our investigator thought 
esures offer was fair. Mr H didnt agree, so his complaint has come to me to make a final 
decision.
My provisional decision
I previously issued a provisional decision, explaining that while I agreed esure had made a 
fair offer in settlement of the claim, this was for slightly different reasons to our investigator. I 
said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say We wont pay more than the market value of 
your car at the time of loss, less the total excess payable.
The market value is defined as The market value is the amount you could reasonably have 
expected to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. 
Our assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar 
age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research 
from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you 
paid when you purchased the car.
When calculating the market value, esures provided evidence that it looked at four different 
motor trade guides which gave values of between £1,486 and £2,265 for Mr Hs car. These 
guides use data from various sources to give what they consider to be the likely selling price 
for cars of a similar specification, age, mileage and condition. The average of these guides 
was £1,819. None of the values were considered to be outliers as being either too high or 
too low.
esure used that average figure as its starting point for the settlement it offered. It deducted 
20% from that starting point because Mr Hs car had previously been written off in 2010. The 
final offer of £1,455 was calculated by making that deduction from the average of the 
valuations.
Im satisfied the valuations obtained by esure were based on the correct details for Mr Hs 
car and none of them should be excluded when considering what is a fair offer because 
theyre inaccurate, or obviously too high or too low.
Our general approach to complaints about insurers valuations of cars is that if the offer falls 
within the range of values obtained from the various trade guides (once any outliers have 
been excluded), then wed normally say it was fair. We think the trade guides are generally 
more persuasive in indicating the likely selling price of a car rather than adverts for similar 
cars, as the adverts give an advertised price, rather than a selling price. We also agree its 
reasonable for an insurer to make a deduction where a car has been previously written off.  
This reflects that a previously written off car typically sells for less than one which hadnt 
been.
Im satisfied that offer made by esure in settlement of the claim is fair. The base offer was 
within the range of the values from the available tools, and the 20% deduction from this was 
reasonable given the car had previously been written off.
Mr H refers to two specific reasons why he considers esures valuation to have been too low. 
He says hed recently replaced the engine in the car, at a cost of over £3,500. Hed also 
installed the upgraded ICE system, at a cost in excess of £800. Hes provided invoices for 
these.
In respect of the engine, I do accept that such work could have an impact on the value of a 
car if it was written off very shortly afterwards. In this case, however, a period of two years 
had passed since the engine had been replaced. Ive also looked at the other invoices 
provided by Mr H which suggest that a significant amount of other maintenance work was 
carried out on the car at around the same time. That suggests to me the work carried out at 
that time was needed to make the car roadworthy. On balance, Im not persuaded that the 
replacement engine would noticeably increase the market value of Mr Hs car two years after 
the replacement was fitted.
Im also not persuaded it would be fair to require esure to increase the settlement offer 
because of the upgraded ICE system. I note firstly that this isnt something I can see Mr H 
made esure aware of during the course of the claim or his complaint until it was referred to 
our service. esure based its decision to write off the car on Mr Hs description of the damage, 
rather than an engineer inspecting the car. It also gave Mr H the opportunity to remove any 
items from the car prior to it being taken away for salvage. I think its fair to say Mr H could 
have made it aware of the upgraded ICE system during that period, and it seems likely hed 
have been advised he could remove the system and retain it if he wished.
In any case, Im not satisfied the value of Mr Hs car would be significantly affected by the 
upgraded ICE system. The upgraded ICE system, in the context of the whole car, is a 
relatively minor improvement on the standard specification. I dont think that any increase 
would be noticeable when its considered Mr Hs car was nearly 20 years old at the time of 
the claim, and had received extensive maintenance (and previous repairs) in order to keep it 
roadworthy.
I dont believe the ICE system or engine replacement added any appreciable value to the 
point that the market valuation tools should be disregarded, or an additional allowance made 
for either of these items. Im satisfied esures offer was reasonable in all the circumstances
The response to my provisional decision
Both parties responded to my provisional decision.esure said it agreed with my proposed findings, and had nothing further to add.
Mr H disagreed with my findings. He didnt give any further reasons why he considered my 
outcome to be wrong, and his comments were related to his contention that the claim hadnt 
been settled and issues he was having resolving that with esure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While neither party has provided further information or additional points they want me to 
consider, I have looked again at the evidence available to me and my proposed findings. 
I remain satisfied that esure made a reasonable offer in settlement of the claim, for the same 
reasons I previously outlined.
Mr H has made a number of points about delays to the settlement of the claim, as he has 
said he hasnt yet received this and has had difficulties communicating with esure about the 
settlement. Those matters arent the subject of this complaint and so Im unable to comment 
on them. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. esure Insurance Limited made a 
reasonable offer to settle Mr Hs claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman