DRN-4336852
The complaint
Mr D, a sole trader, complains about the decision of Haven Insurance Company Limited to 
decline his vehicle theft insurance claim, made under a motor trade policy.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. Whilst other parties may have 
been involved, for the sake of simplicity I have just referred to Mr D and Haven. 
Mr D operates largely as a vehicle recovery business, though he does also sell used 
vehicles. He had a motor trade policy, underwritten by Haven. The policy records Mr Ds 
trade address as being his home address.
In January 2023, Mr Ds vehicle was stolen. And he contacted Haven to claim. Havens 
notes state that, when reporting the claim, Mr D said the vehicle was parked outside his 
address, and that he realised it had been stolen when checking the feed from his camera 
that shows outside house. 
Mr Ds policy contains the following endorsement:
MTC06: Trade Premises Exclusion
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this policy, the Insurer shall not 
be liable under Sections B or C in respect of loss of or damage to any Insured 
Vehicle owned by the policyholder or Customer Vehicle in the custody or control of 
the policyholder and for which the policyholder has accepted responsibility whilst 
such vehicles are on or parked within 100 metres of the trade premises as shown on 
the schedule
Section C relates to Loss or damage to policyholder vehicles. On the basis of this 
exclusion, Haven declined the claim saying the loss of the policyholders vehicle was within 
100 metres of the trade premises. Mr D was unhappy with this, and when Haven did not 
change its stance, he referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator did not recommend his complaint be upheld though. She thought Haven 
had acted reasonably by considering the vehicle to have been parked within 100 metres of 
the trade premises, given the information Mr D had provided. And she thought that Haven 
had fairly and reasonably applied the endorsement above when declining the claim. 
As Mr D remained unsatisfied, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as our Investigator, largely for the same 
reasons. 
Mr D has said that he had paid his premiums for years and feels his claim should be 
covered. However, the premium he has paid is for the cover the policy provides. As with all 
insurance, this policy does not provide cover for all circumstances. And it is the cover that 
this policy provides that determines if a claim should be met. 
The endorsement above is listed in Mr Ds policy schedule. The policy wording confirms that 
the policy, schedule, endorsements, and certificate of insurance should be read as though 
they are one document. So, I am satisfied that this endorsement formed part of the policy. 
And, as such, it determines in part the cover provided. 
I consider that this endorsement is clear that where a claim is being made under Section C, 
for loss of the policyholders own vehicle, there is no cover where the vehicle was parked 
within 100 metres of the trade premises. I am also satisfied that Mr Ds address is the 
relevant trade premises. 
Mr D has suggested that Haven should have come out and physically measured where his 
vehicle was stolen from in relation to his trade premises. However, the notes from the calls 
when he reported the claim are clear that the vehicle was outside his premises and that this 
was an area that was clearly visible from the camera mounted at his premises. So, I dont 
consider Haven has acted unreasonably by assuming this was within 100 metres of the 
premises. Additionally, whilst Mr D has expressed unhappiness at the lack of a site visit, he 
has not actually disputed that the vehicle was within 100 metres of the premises. 
I appreciate this is not the outcome Mr D was hoping for. But, taking everything into account, 
I consider Haven acted fairly and reasonably when considering the vehicle was within 
100 metres of Mr Ds trade premises, and also when applying the endorsement above to 
decline the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman