DRN-1687249
 
complaint
Mrs B says Connells Limited (Connells) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2002 to go with a mortgage.
background
The PPI policy included accident, sickness and unemployment cover. The policy wouldve 
covered the whole mortgage payment for up to 12 months if Mrs B became too ill to work or 
was made redundant.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be not upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Where there isnt much evidence (as is the case here) or theres contradictory evidence for 
me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to 
say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision 
based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. I explain why below.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents available 
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party has been able to 
provide the application for the PPI as these events happened almost 18 years ago. 
Mrs B told us that she felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have no doubt this 
represents her best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective area and I 
have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mrs B only 
took the policy because she was put under pressure to do so.
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Connells didnt make Mrs B aware the PPI was 
optional. Considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So whilst acknowledging that things could have happened just as Mrs B said, having 
considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that 
Connells wouldve made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it, even though she may not remember that now, many years later. 
Connells didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. Its possible that the information Connells gave Mrs B about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
couldve been. But considering her circumstances at the time of the sale, I dont think that 
clearer information about the policy would have led Mrs B to make a different decision.
I say this because Mrs B was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions from or limitations to the cover the policy offered.
And having thought about the circumstances of Mrs B at the time, I think she could have 
found the policy useful. I havent seen Mrs Bs employee booklet from the time of the sale, 
but Mrs B told us she had good sick pay from her employer, 90% of her salary for up to two 
years. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to whatever sick pay Mrs B may have 
been entitled to. And whilst Mr A had some savings, I note that she chose to protect them at 
the time of the sale, by not using them to take a smaller mortgage. And thats not surprising 
as much of the evidence that Mrs B supplied us suggests that her savings were held in 
investments which were market sensitive, or in structured savings plans. 
This policy could have paid the mortgage amount for up to 12 months, in the event Mrs B 
suffered from ill health, would have paid in addition to any sick pay Mrs B may have received 
and would have further protected her investments, savings plans and savings. And the policy 
would have paid out on a successful claim for up to a year if Mrs B lost her job. So, having 
thought carefully about this, and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home, I think Mrs B could have found the policy useful.
So thinking about this and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home, I think the policy could have been useful for Mrs B if something went 
wrong. And so, I dont think that better information about the policy would have changed the 
mind of Mrs B about taking out PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint and I make no award 
against Connells Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman