DRN-2322206
The complaint
Ms D complains about Everyday Lending Limited  trading as Trusttwo (ELL) and their 
decision to approve a high interest loan.
What happened
In January 2018, Ms D applied for a high interest loan with ELL. She explained her intention 
was to use the loan to consolidate existing debt she had into one more manageable 
payment.
ELL assessed Ms Ds application against her income and expenditure and her credit file 
information. Having done so, they approved a loan of £10,000 with a minimum monthly 
payment of £390.84. Its important to note a guarantor was also included on the loan at the 
time.
ELL arranged for an existing loan Ms D held to be clear with part of the loan they were 
providing. But Ms D used the remaining value of the loan to pay for funeral costs following 
the deaths of two family members, rather than clear her existing pay day loans. This meant 
Ms D struggled to maintain her monthly payments and she didnt think it was affordable. So, 
she raised a complaint.
Ms D complained that ELL had approved the loan irresponsibly. She said ELL had pushed 
her into taking a higher loan amount to clear more of her existing debt at the time and 
because of this, she has a monthly payment that she struggles to pay. So, she wanted ELL 
to refund her the interest shed paid plus 8% statuary interest on that amount. And she 
wanted any further interest and charges to be frozen.
But ELL didnt agree. They thought theyd carried out proportionate checks when approving 
the loan. And as their calculations showed Ms D would be left with disposable income after 
her monthly payment had been made, they thought they acted fairly when deciding it was 
reasonable. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Ms D remained unhappy 
with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. After considering the initial 
information ELL considered, she thought they shouldve completed further checks before 
approving the loan. In particular, she thought ELL shouldve asked for bank statements to 
confirm the income Ms D received. But she also explained if ELL had of done that, she 
wouldve expected them to continue to approve the loan. This was because Ms D was 
receiving a second income to her account. And although Ms D explained this was on behalf 
her husband, Ms D was unable to evidence this.
So, our investigator didnt think the loan itself was unaffordable. She thought if Ms D had 
used the loan to consolidate the debts as shed explained to ELL, her pay day loans 
wouldve been reduced meaning she wouldve had a reasonable disposable income 
remaining. She recognised this wasnt the case as Ms D then used the loan to pay funeral 
costs, but she didnt think ELL wouldve been able to foresee this at the time. Because of 
this, she didnt think ELL had acted unreasonably, and so she didnt think they needed to do 
anything more.
Ms D didnt agree. She didnt think it was fair that the payments she received for her 
husband had been considered as part of the view. And she explained she had a large 
amount owing for funeral costs so felt shed used the loan as intended by clearing a debt she 
owed. So, she thought her pay day loan payments shouldve been included in her 
expenditure and if it had, she thought it shouldve been clear to ELL that the loan was 
unaffordable. As Ms D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms D. I appreciate shes 
struggled to maintain the monthly payment and I can understand why this wouldve been 
stressful and upsetting to do. At the time of taking the loan, Ms D was attempting to 
consolidate her existing debts to make her financial situation more stable, so when this didnt 
happen, I can understand why shed question the use of the loan and whether it was suitable 
for her needs. But for me to say ELL have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied 
that they failed to reasonably gain the information I think was proportionate to the loan Ms D 
applied for. And then, Id need to be satisfied that if they had, they wouldnt have approved 
Ms D for the loan with that information. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the information ELL assessed at the time they approved Ms D for the loan. There 
are no set amount of checks ELL are obliged to make. But the checks ELL made must be 
proportionate to the value of the loan they approved. Ms Ds loan was for £10,000 spread 
over 60 months, with a minimum payment of £390.84. Ms D declared her monthly income at 
around £2,300.
Ive seen ELL assessed Ms Ds income and expenditure, her credit file, her employment 
history and her homeowner status. I think these checks were proportionate to the loan Ms D 
received, considering the minimum monthly payment was a relatively low amount in 
comparison to her monthly income, and the rent she paid each month. So, I cant say theyve 
done anything wrong on this aspect of the loan approval.
But I have also considered the way they assessed the information these checks provided, 
and whether they acted fairly.
Ive seen Ms Ds credit file showed several existing debts. And I can see ELL discussed 
these with Ms D who confirmed the defaults showing on her file had payment plans 
arranged. From the system notes provided, I can see Ms D confirmed the loan was intended 
to pay off an existing loan in particular, and then to clear all her remaining pay day loans 
which took up a large proportion of her monthly expenses. Ive seen ELL calculated the 
affordability of the loan based on this information, and this left Ms D with £74.60 as a 
disposable income. ELL responded to Ms Ds complaint saying because there was a 
disposable income remaining, they think they acted fairly. But I dont agree.
I think this a small disposable income to be left with after Ms D had made all the outstanding 
payments she declared. So, at this point, I wouldve expected ELL to look into this further and ask for further information. I think it wouldve been reasonable for ELL to ask Ms D for 
bank statements to show all of her outgoings which wouldve given a clearer picture of her 
financial situation and whether this disposable income was sufficient. And I cant see they 
did.
But Ive also seen the statements Ms D wouldve provided at this point. They show Ms D 
received a second income, additional to the income she declared in her application. Ms D 
has said this is her husbands income which was coming into her account temporarily. But 
shes been unable to evidence this.
I can see from the statements I have that the income remained in her account and was used 
to make other payments. I cant see that it was transferred back out to anyone else that 
would suggest she was receiving it on behalf of them. And I can see from ELLs system 
notes that they thought Ms D had told them of a second income when she was making the 
application. Because of this, Ive assessed the bank statements and its incomings as if it was 
intended to be paid to Ms D for her use.
And having done so, it increased Ms Ds average income to over £3,600.00 a month. And 
when this income is considered alongside the monthly payment of the loan and the reduction 
in payments this wouldve created having cleared Ms Ds pay day loans, I think it shows the 
loan to be affordable. It leaves Ms D with a monthly disposable income of over £1800.00, 
which I think is a reasonable amount. 
Because of this, I think if ELL had of completed further checks and enquiries as I wouldve 
expected, I think its most likely they wouldve continued to approve the application as it 
showed the loan to be more affordable than before. As I explained earlier in the decision, as 
well as deciding whether ELL failed to assess the information correctly or completed 
proportionate checks, I also need to be satisfied if they had they wouldnt have approved the 
loan. And I dont think thats the case here. So, I dont think it would fair for me to direct them 
to take any further action.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms D was hoping for. I want to reassure Ms D my 
awareness of her current financial situation and the impact this decision will have. Ive 
considered this at length when making my decision.
I appreciate Ms D used part of the loan to cover the funeral costs which Ive no doubt were 
unexpected, and she wouldve taken this decision in very upsetting circumstances. But this 
decision its centred around the information ELL had available at the time. And at the time, 
they wouldnt have been aware of the amount Ms D owed for the funerals as they werent 
disclosed by Ms D nor would they have shown on her credit file. I havent seen evidence to 
show Ms D made ELL aware she was intending to use the loan for this purpose. From what 
Ive seen, she told them it would be used to consolidate her pay day loan debt. So, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to hold ELL responsible for Ms Ds need to use the loan for another 
purpose they were unaware of.
Ms D has also asked for clarification on whether the guarantor can be removed from the 
loan. This isnt something Im able to advise Ms D on. It isnt part of the complaint she raised, 
and we do not provide financial advice. Ms D such direct this question to ELL or seek 
alternative financial advice about this.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Trusttwo.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman