DRN-4178327
The complaint
Mr B says Zurich Insurance PLC wrongly declined a claim he made on his motor insurance 
policy after the theft of his campervan. 
What happened
Mr Bs vehicle was stolen in January 2023. The police found it later the same evening, burnt 
out. Zurich declined the claim because a driveway endorsement on Mr Bs policy said cover 
wouldnt apply unless the vehicle was kept on his property when not in use. Mr B said it was 
usually kept on his drive, but hed left it outside to prepare it for a long trip the next day.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He thought Zurich had acted reasonably 
in relying on the policy endorsement. He noted that Mr B had witnessed a recent firebombing 
of a car close to his home, and that during its investigation into the theft, Zurich found a 
speeding offence and a claim relating to Mr Bs other vehicle that he hadnt reported to it. 
Mr B said he thought Zurich had shown that it didnt intend to meet the claim from the outset, 
partly because it had looked at historic satellite images of his property. He said the 
firebombing had led him to upgrade the CCTV coverage of his home and its surroundings, 
which had meant the theft of his vehicle was recorded. He said hed taken other security 
measures to protect the vehicle by locking it and by using a steering-wheel lock. He said he 
thought the points on his licence had expired, and that he thought Zurich was already aware 
of the recent claim on his other vehicle.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B made numerous comments to our investigator, and Ive read them all, but I dont intend 
to address every point he raised. Ill concentrate on what I think are the main issues.
When Mr B took the policy out in 2021, and at renewal in 2022, he agreed to keep to all the 
policys terms and conditions, one of which was the driveway endorsement. It said that the 
loss of or damage to the vehicle would be excluded from cover if the vehicle - when parked 
at Mr Bs home -  wasnt on his private property. The endorsement showed that UKI thought 
the risk of covering a vehicle like Mr Bs campervan would be too great for it to take on if the 
vehicle were to be left outside a consumers private property. 
Although Mr B took security precautions to protect the vehicle on the night of the theft, they 
werent sufficient, or it wouldnt have been stolen. And anyway, the point is that hed agreed 
to comply with the driveway endorsement and to keep the vehicle on his property. Had it 
been on his drive that evening, it may not have been taken. Mr B says it wasnt usually 
parked on the road - but thats not relevant to the fact that when it was stolen, it was taken 
from a public place where hed left it. 
Mr B thinks exceptional circumstances should apply, as hed only moved the vehicle off his 
drive to prepare it for the trip the next day. At one point he suggested that the trip had started 
- as far as he was concerned - so the endorsement shouldnt apply. But clearly, that isnt the 
case, as Mr B was still at home that evening and overnight. So he could have moved the 
vehicle back onto the drive after working on it in the afternoon. He thinks its unfair that if 
hed moved it to his friends house seven miles away on the night before the trip, the claim 
would have been paid. I think thats probably right, but the endorsement is clear about what 
must be done whilst the vehicle isnt in a place away from a consumers home.  
Mr B says he thinks Zurich never intended to cover the claim. I think it probably formed that 
view early on in the process, as he told it straight away that the vehicle wasnt on his 
property when it was taken. So Zurich knew from the outset that hed breached the driveway 
endorsement. I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that the risk of the loss of or 
damage to the vehicle increased substantially once it was left on the road outside his 
property. Mr B thinks it took too long to deal with the claim if it already knew the outcome. 
But we think insurers should investigate claims fully, and consider all the facts, especially 
when the potential consequences of declining a claim are serious for a consumer. 
Mr B was upset by some aspects of Zurichs investigation. He didnt like the fact that it used  
historic satellite images and he got the impression that Zurich doubted whether he had a 
driveway at all, and if so, whether it was big enough to store the campervan. He didnt think it 
was necessary for Zurichs investigator to measure the driveway. But satellite images are 
often used in investigations, and I can see why Zurich thought the images werent conclusive 
as to the size of the driveway. There was no image showing the vehicle parked on it. Mr B 
told us it was a very tight fit. So I think it was reasonable for Zurich to want to measure it.
I understand why Mr B was very upset by what he saw as implied criticism of him and also 
by the doubts he perceived on Zurichs part about his version of events. But I think it was 
reasonable for Zurich to carry out all the enquiries it thought were needed in order to deal 
with the claim fairly. Unfortunately, its a fact that some consumers set out to mislead 
insurers, so I think theyre entitled to try to establish the facts whenever a claim is made on a 
policy. Zurich hasnt said that Mr B tried to mislead it about the theft claim. And although the 
investigation threw up potential concerns about other issues, Zurich didnt pursue them.  
Having reviewed everything Mr B has provided, plus the details of Zurichs investigation, I 
think it acted reasonably in declining the claim after deciding that Mr B had breached the 
endorsement. Mr B knew or should have known that not complying with it could lead to a 
claim on the policy being declined, yet he chose not to keep to its requirements. I know he 
didnt think he was taking a risk, given the precautions he took, but that makes no difference.
Mr B told us hed  invested his savings in the vehicle and in making improvements to it, so 
he cant replace it without a total loss payment from Zurich. I think the claims non-payment 
has had an enormous impact on him, and he has told us hes felt almost suicidal. Our 
investigator advised Mr B how to access help with his mental health, and if he hasnt done 
so already, I hope hell do so now. Im very sorry about the extent to which the theft and its 
aftermath have impacted on Mr B, mentally and financially. But despite my sympathy for him, 
I cant uphold his complaint, as I dont think hes shown that Zurich did anything wrong. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023. 
Susan EwinsOmbudsman