DRN-3297546
The complaint
Ms B complains that as a result of Bank of Scotland plcs actions, she became a mortgage
prisoner.
Specifically, she complains that Bank of Scotland:
Should not have lent her an interest only, self-certified mortgage;
Have charged her a higher interest rate as a result of her mortgage being a self-
certified mortgage;
Havent offered her any assistance by allowing her to change her mortgage product
over the years;
Have overcharged her, and wrongly added fees to her account.
What happened
In 2003 Ms B took a mortgage out via a broker. The mortgage was agreed on a self-certified
basis, meaning she didnt provide proof of her income at the time. The mortgage was also 
sold on an interest only basis. Ms B took out a further advance in 2004 following an
application she made directly to Bank of Scotland (BoS).
Ms Bs mortgage was initially taken out on a rate that was 1% lower than the Banks Home
Loan rate (variable) for one year. In July 2004 the mortgage reverted to BoSs Home Loan 
rate  or standard variable rate (SVR) - and it stayed on that rate for the remainder of the 
term. Ms B redeemed her mortgage in 2019 after selling her property.
In August 2019 Ms B complained to the bank. She felt shed paid too much interest on her
mortgage as a result of the type of mortgage the bank had given her. She felt she had
become a mortgage prisoner as a result, and the bank had not offered her any solutions to
help her get out of her situation.
BoS didnt uphold the complaint. They said the mortgage was sold to Ms B by a broker, so
they were the party responsible for ensuring the mortgage was suitable for her needs. They
said the information supplied by the broker met the banks criteria and affordability guidelines
at the time of the application. The bank said they wrote to Ms B when her initial interest rate
product ended in 2004, and they do not actively contact customers to offer them new rates 
as its the customers responsibility to ask about the options available to them. The bank also
said theyd conducted a fee review in 2018 that considered the fees that had been applied to
the account since April 2010 and a refund had been made.
Ms B brought her complaint to our service. BoS didnt give our service consent to consider
the complaint points Ms B had raised about events that had taken place more than six years
before she complained. I issued a decision which said that our service could only consider 
the following parts of Ms Bs complaint:
Bank of Scotland have charged her a higher interest rate as a result of her mortgage
being a self-certified mortgage from August 2013 onwards;
Bank of Scotland havent offered her any assistance by allowing her to change her 
mortgage product since August 2013;
Bank of Scotland have overcharged her, and wrongly added fees to her account 
since August 2013.
Our investigator considered the complaint points we had the power to look at. Having done 
so, he didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Ms B had been charged a higher interest 
rate as a result of the type of mortgage she had, and didnt think BoS had unfairly declined 
her access to a better rate as he couldnt see shed applied for one.
Ms B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She said the investigator hadnt considered 
recent case law in his assessment of the complaint. She thought hed misinterpreted the 
facts relating to the case, and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to acknowledge that Ms B has told us about some difficult personal 
circumstances shes currently experiencing. Im very sorry to hear about the impact those 
circumstances are having on her. Whilst I appreciate Ms B wanted more time to send us 
information and evidence in relation to her complaint, Im satisfied that I have enough 
information to reach a final decision. I have carefully considered everything both parties have 
already sent to us before doing so, and have set out my findings below.
The interest rate charged on Ms Bs mortgage
As I set out in my previous decision, I can only consider Ms Bs complaint about BoSs 
actions from August 2013 onwards. However, in order to decide whether BoS have acted 
fairly during that period, I have taken account of all the wider circumstances that are relevant 
to Ms Bs complaint.
When Ms B took out this mortgage in 2003, she did so on the basis that she would pay an 
interest rate that was 1% lower than BoSs SVR for one year. After that, the mortgage would 
revert to BoSs SVR, which is the rate that Ms B paid until she redeemed the mortgage.
Ms B thinks shes paid more interest on her mortgage as a result of it being taken out on a 
self-certified basis. Whilst Ms Bs mortgage has been on BoSs SVR, she has not been 
charged more than borrowers who did not have self-certified mortgages and were paying the 
SVR. BoS have applied their SVR to Ms Bs mortgage which is the same SVR they charge 
all borrowers who pay that rate. So Im not satisfied that BoS have charged a higher rate on 
Ms Bs mortgage as a result of the type of mortgage she had.
However, there are many borrowers with BoS who have not paid the SVR because theyve 
taken out different interest rate products. 
Ive looked at the contact notes for Ms Bs mortgage account, and I cant see that she ever 
asked BoS about other interest rate products that might be available to her. If Ms B had 
asked for a lower interest rate, and BoS had declined an application because she was on a 
self-certified mortgage, then we could consider whether that was fair. But Ms B hasnt asked 
for a lower rate, and so I cant say BoS have unfairly declined her access to one.
Ms B has said that BoS had a duty to change the mortgage product she was on when self-
certified mortgages stopped being allowed under the rules of mortgage regulation. 
Whilst Ms B did originally take out her mortgage on a self-certified basis, the way her 
mortgage operated was no different than if BoS had verified her income when the mortgage 
was taken out. So whilst Ms B is right in that mortgage regulation has changed since she 
took out this mortgage, and lenders are now required to complete much stricter affordability checks before agreeing to lend, that doesnt mean BoS needed to do anything differently in 
relation to Ms Bs mortgage when those rules changed. 
Ms B already had her mortgage approved by the bank by the time the rules had changed. I 
cant consider what happened at the time she took this mortgage out as we dont have the 
power to consider that. But Im not satisfied that because the rules changed later, BoS 
needed to pro-actively do anything differently to ensure Ms B was on the right mortgage for 
her.
However, lenders do have an ongoing responsibility to treat their borrowers fairly, and I can 
see that Ms B was in arrears for long periods of time on this mortgage. During that time, I 
think BoS offered her appropriate forbearance by engaging with her about her 
circumstances, and agreeing to arrangements which ultimately enabled Ms B to clear the 
arrears. 
Ms B has referred to herself as a mortgage prisoner, and doesnt think BoS did enough to 
help her get out of her situation. She ultimately had to sell her home to redeem the 
mortgage. Having looked at the history of this mortgage, I havent seen that Ms B asked BoS 
about her options or what she could do to make this mortgage cheaper for her. I think its 
also relevant to note that whilst her mortgage was in arrears, and she was looking to redeem 
her mortgage in around 2015 and 2016, its unlikely that arranging a different product during 
that period would have been appropriate for her. 
Whilst Ms B may have felt like she was a mortgage prisoner, Im not persuaded that was a 
result of unfair treatment from BoS. Ultimately, I havent seen that BoS have treated Ms B 
unfairly as a result of the type of mortgage she had with them, and I dont think BoS have 
charged her more interest than they should have done either.
Bank of Scotland have overcharged Ms B and wrongly added fees to her account
In 2017 and 2018 BoS wrote to Ms B to explain they were refunding fees theyd added to her 
mortgage account whilst it was in arrears. Ms B hasnt specified exactly what fees she 
remains unhappy with, but I cant see that BoS have charged her any fees in relation to her 
mortgage since those refunds, with the exception of those charged at redemption.
So based on what Ive seen, whilst BoS may have charged fees to Ms Bs mortgage account 
incorrectly, it seems these have all now been refunded. In the absence of any specific 
information from Ms B about any other fees she thinks have been applied unfairly, I dont 
think BoS need to do anything further in relation to this point.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman