DRN-1761417
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Think Insurance Services Limited unfairly asked for information to 
verify his motor trade policy.
What happened
Mr P bought a motor trade policy through Think Insurance. He said hed told Think Insurance 
he was a part-time motor trader. Think Insurance asked Mr P for proof of trade. He had 
difficulty providing information as he only trades part-time. Think Insurance said if Mr P 
couldnt provide the information it needed it would cancel his policy.
Mr P didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought Think 
Insurance was entitled to ask for proof of trading. Mr P didnt think this had taken account of 
his specific circumstances and was worried Think Insurance might ask for more information 
in the future. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Think Insurances terms of business set out that it could require proof of trading. It no longer 
has the call where Mr P bought his policy due to a change in systems. However, it said the 
legal statement read out during the call explained that Mr P might be required to provide 
proof of trading. Its not unusual for a broker or insurer to ask for proof of trading and I think 
its entitled to ask for these, as set out in its terms of business.  
Ive spoken to Mr P. He said hed told Think Insurance about his circumstances and said it 
caused him difficulty in asking for information.
Unfortunately, I cant listen to the call where Mr P bought his policy. But having spoken to 
him Im persuaded that he said he was a part-time motor trader. So, I do think it would have 
been helpful for Think Insurance to have confirmed the type of information it might ask him 
for as proof of trading, to enable him to decide if he had that information available. 
Having said that, I understand Think Insurance didnt cancel Mr Ps policy and the policy has 
recently renewed. So, I dont think Mr P has suffered any loss by Think Insurance asking him 
to provide evidence to support his proof of trading. And it seems the information Mr P 
provided satisfied Think Insurance, as it didnt cancel his policy. So, I do think its taken his 
specific circumstances into account. Think Insurance has also said its unlikely to ask Mr P 
for further proof of trading following this years renewal, unless its requested by the insurer. 
I appreciate Mr P feels strongly that Think Insurance shouldnt be able to ask for details of 
his trading. But as its asked for information its entitled to Im not going to require it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman