DRN-2816911
The complaint
Ms B complains an education programme financed by a loan from Specialist Lending Limited 
(trading as Duologi) was not fit for purpose and that she was not allowed to cancel the 
programme when she discovered this. She also complains that the loan itself was 
irresponsibly lent.
What happened
In September 2019 Ms B entered into an agreement with a company Ill call X for an 
education programme to support her children, aged 4 to 16, with their English and Maths.
The programme was made up of 21 educational modules, cost £4,796 and, apart from a £50 
cash deposit, was paid for using a loan from Duologi. This loan was interest free and 
repayable over 60 months at £79.10 per month.
Ms B became dissatisfied with the programme. She also found herself unable to make her 
repayments easily. She mentioned a few reasons for being unhappy with the programme:
It wasnt in line with the curriculum and the video lessons were very old.
Her oldest son hadnt used it as he had already finished school but was retaking his 
GCSEs.
The programme didnt suit her middle sons learning style. He needed one to one 
support which wasnt available, and he didnt seem to be understanding.
Her daughter didnt use the programme as she learned on YouTube instead.
She had felt under pressure to sign up for the programme because the salesperson 
had said it was a limited-time offer.
In April 2020 Ms B contacted X and asked to cancel the course. It told her that she only had 
14 days from when shed signed up to cancel, so there was nothing they could do. X 
directed Ms B to contact Duologi. Ultimately Ms B discovered she was stuck repaying the 
loan for several years, and she didnt think this was fair because she had some difficult 
personal circumstances at the time which had meant it wasnt possible for her to understand 
within 14 days whether the programme was right for her children. 
Ms B complained to Duologi about her experience with X in April 2020, after having some 
problems getting a repayment holiday set up which she also complained about. It appears 
she also raised concerns about her ability to afford the programme.
Duologi didnt agree with Ms Bs complaint. I could summarise its response as follows:
If there had been problems with the programme it would have expected Ms B to have 
raised these with X earlier. It could see she had spoken to X on 14 October 2019 and 
24 October 2019 but hadnt reported any issues with the programme other than a 
technical problem with a netbook which had been provided as a free gift. Ms B had 
apparently told X on the first phone call that she was happy with the programme.
There was only a 14 day cancellation period and Ms B had tried to cancel outside of 
that, so she couldnt cancel and would need to continue repaying her loan.
It was sorry that there had been a delay in putting in place her repayment holiday, 
which had caused them to request a direct debit payment from Ms Bs bank account 
twice. Both payments had bounced. It explained this was because they didnt have 
enough notice when Ms B asked for the payment holiday, to stop the direct debit.
There had been no concerns about her ability to afford her repayments at the time of 
sale, based on the income shed reported having of over £30,000 per year.
Unhappy with this response, Ms B brought her complaint to this service where it was looked 
into by an investigator. She considered that Duologis responsibility to Ms B in relation to the 
programme came from section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), which caused 
Duologi to be liable for any misrepresentations or breaches of contract by X. 
Our investigator didnt think there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by X, 
and she didnt think it was likely it had put Ms B under pressure to sign up. She didnt think X 
was aware that Ms Bs middle son had a specific learning style which might have made the 
programme unsuitable, and thought the fact X gave a demonstration of how the product 
worked would have meant Ms B would have been aware if was likely to be suitable or not. 
She also didnt think Duologi had done anything wrong with respect to the repayment 
holiday.
Ms B didnt agree with our investigators assessment, and repeated her concerns about 
being unable to afford the agreement and the decision that was made to lend to her. Our 
investigator looked into Ms Bs concerns about Duologis lending decision and noted that it 
had an obligation to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms B 
could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
The investigator concluded Duologis checks had been proportionate, noting that it had 
carried out a credit check and asked about Ms Bs income. The credit check hadnt shown 
any cause for concern, while Ms B had reported earning £18,500 per year from employment, 
as well as receiving £192 per month child benefit and £12,064 annually in tax credits. Our 
investigator didnt think further checks would have been necessary in light of this, and the 
fact Ms Bs expected repayments were only £79 per month. Overall, our investigator 
concluded Duologi had not lent to Ms B irresponsibly.
Ms B disagreed, and the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs complaint is made up of two separate parts  the first is related to the quality of the 
course with X and how it was sold to her. The second part is about the loan with Duologi, 
and the decision to lend her money to fund the course in her particular circumstances. I have 
considered both parts separately.
The course and the way it was sold
Duologi didnt sell Ms B the course or the loan, but it has some responsibilities to her due to 
certain protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan Ms B entered into with Duologi is regulated by this act, and there are two sections of the act which 
provide her with some protection  section 56 and section 75.
Without going into large amounts of detail, section 56 has the effect of making X the agent of 
Duologi for the purpose of the antecedent negotiations leading up to Ms B entering into the 
loan agreement. Very generally, it means Duologi can be held responsible for what X said 
during the sales process.
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Ms B to hold Duologi liable for breaches of contract by 
X, or misrepresentations made by X in relation to the purchase of the educational course. It 
doesnt cover all types of scenario where someone might be unhappy with something 
theyve agreed to buy.
A misrepresentation is a material, false statement of fact which someone relies on when 
making a decision, and this causes them a loss. So if X had told Ms B things which were not 
true during the sales process, and she decided to buy the course because of this, then this 
would be a misrepresentation. Ms B has referred to being pressured into buying the course 
by Xs representative, by being told that there was only a short time to obtain it at the current 
price.
I can see Duologi asked X to comment on this, and it had said that at the time of its deal with 
Ms B, it was running a late-Summer special offer where it would cap the total cost of the 
course at 11 modules. So if Ms B ordered 21 modules, she would pay for only 11 of them. It 
therefore appears to have been true that there was a time-limited special offer, and it was 
not false of X to tell Ms B that this was the case. I dont doubt that Ms B may have felt some 
pressure, but this in itself isnt something I could say Duologi was liable for under the areas 
of responsibility Ive outlined above, especially when it seems the statements which made 
Ms B feel under pressure were true.
Ms B hasnt made specific points about other aspects of the way the course was sold  she 
has focused on how unsuitable it turned out to be for her children, so I have gone on to 
consider that part of her complaint next.
The quality of the course 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says it is an implied term in contracts for digital 
content, that the content will be satisfactory quality. Its also an implied term that digital 
content will match any description given to it by the seller. If the content is not of satisfactory 
quality or is incorrectly described then this would mean a breach of contract has taken place.
What this means in Ms Bs case is that if the course sold by X fell below a satisfactory 
standard or had been misdescribed, then Ms B would be able to hold Duologi liable for this, 
under section 75 of the CCA.
Ms B says the course wasnt in line with the curriculum being taught to her children and was 
outdated. If this is correct then I think it could be the case that the course was misdescribed, 
as I can see from Xs website that it advertised the course as being suitable for children in 
UK schools.
Unfortunately, the only evidence I have that the course was not in line with the curriculum is 
Ms Bs opinion on the matter. I havent seen evidence from, for example, an educational 
specialist who could provide a professional opinion on the course content; or perhaps a 
teacher from Ms Bs childrens school who might be able to explain whether or not the 
course follows the curriculum they teach.I note Ms Bs oldest son didnt get any use out of the course because he was retaking his 
GCSEs. But as I understand it Ms B paid per module, rather than per child. And the more 
advanced modules were meant to benefit her other children too (in time). So while it might 
seem odd that her oldest son was named on the course documents, given he had finished 
school, Ms B wouldnt have paid anything extra for this. And while Ms Bs daughter may 
prefer to learn on YouTube, that doesnt necessarily mean the course content was of such a 
low standard that it was not of satisfactory quality.
I dont think theres enough evidence for me to be able to say that the course content was 
misdescribed or was not of satisfactory quality. It follows that I cant say Duologi needs to 
take any action, under its responsibilities to Ms B under section 75 of the CCA, to put things 
right.
Duologis decision to lend to Ms B
Our investigator went into some detail about the expectations of Duologi to lend responsibly. 
She correctly explained that Duologi needed to check if Ms B would be able to afford to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way, and that it needed to do so in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances.
I dont necessarily agree with our investigator that Duologis checks were proportionate. 
Given the relatively long term of the loan at 60 months, and the fact Duologi should have 
known (via X) that Ms B had at least three children and the additional expenditure that being 
a parent brings, I think Duologi should have made some attempts to ascertain Ms Bs regular 
expenditure.
Duologi didnt do this. Its told me that it was not its policy at the time. I think it should have 
done more, but just because I think Duologi didnt do enough checks, it doesnt necessarily 
mean it was wrong of it to lend to Ms B. It would have been wrong to lend to Ms B if enough 
checks would have shown she couldnt afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. To this 
end, Ive tried to establish what Duologi would likely have discovered, had they made 
reasonable enquiries about Ms Bs expenditure. 
Ms B has provided copies of bank statements from the relevant time. These, unfortunately, 
dont paint a very clear picture of her financial situation. It appears she had other bank 
accounts between which money was transferred frequently, and I dont feel I can draw any 
conclusions about what Duologi might have discovered, from the statements I have seen. 
In the absence of more specific information from Ms B, Ive considered national statistical 
data. I think estimating Ms Bs likely expenditure in this way could have been an acceptable 
level of enquiry for Duologi to have undertaken. The Office of National Statistics found that 
the average household expenditure per week during the year Ms B signed up for the course, 
was about £600. This would equate to approximately £2,400 per month. Ms Bs reported 
income came to around £2,750 per month, leaving a buffer of £350 from which the payments 
to Duologi of £79 per month would need to be made.
Although it is not an exact science, I think this would have appeared to give Ms B enough 
headroom for the prospective loan to appear sustainably affordable. So my conclusion is 
that Duologi  had it carried out proportionate checks  wouldnt have thought it was 
irresponsible to lend to Ms B. And this means I dont think it was wrong to do so.
Problems with the payment holidayWhen Ms B asked for her payment holiday, Duologi was happy to grant this. However, after 
agreeing the holiday it continued to try to take direct debits from her bank account. 
Duologi has said that at the time Ms B got in touch to set up the repayment holiday, it didnt 
have enough notice to stop her next direct debit. Notes from Duologis systems show that it 
set up Ms Bs payment holiday on 25 April 2020, and that her direct debit was due to be 
taken from her bank account on 27 April 2020. 
Because of the way the direct debit system works, the process of collecting a payment can 
start a few days before the money is taken from a persons bank account. So it does seem 
plausible that Duologi didnt have enough time to stop the attempt to claim the monthly 
payment. But Duologis notes dont say when it was that Ms B contacted it (via an online 
form) to ask for the payment holiday. 
Its possible therefore that the delays in getting it set up were at Duologis end, and in any 
event the attempt it made to collect the direct debit a second time, around two weeks after 
the payment holiday had been set up, I think was inappropriate. It should have been possible 
to prevent that from happening. But Ive not been told that this caused Ms B any financial 
loss, and Duologi has apologised for what happened, which I think is enough in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman