DRN-2863538
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Fleet Mortgages Ltd handled his re-mortgage application. 
Hes unhappy that Fleet would not extend his interest rate product after it expired, and that 
they insisted he repaid the mortgage payments missed as a result of a covid-19 related 
payment deferral before he could re-mortgage. 
What happened
Mr M had a buy-to-let mortgage with Fleet. The mortgage was on a fixed interest rate of 
3.39% until 31 May 2020. After that date, the mortgage was due to revert to a variable rate 
which was 4.74% above LIBOR.
Fleet dont accept product switch applications on their mortgages directly, so in March 2020 
Mr M applied to re-mortgage with them, taking out a new interest rate product. He made the 
application through a broker. Due to the impact of the pandemic, Fleet were unable to 
arrange for a surveyor to go out and value the property. Mr Ms broker asked if Fleet would 
be able to agree to a desktop valuation instead, but Fleet said that wouldnt be possible, so 
the application didnt proceed.
In April 2020 Mr M successfully applied for a three month payment deferral on his mortgage, 
as his income, and the income of his tenants, had been impacted by the covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr M also asked Fleet to extend his current interest rate product by three months, as hed 
been unable to secure a new rate for reasons outside of his control, and was worried about 
the mortgage moving onto the variable rate which would increase his monthly payments at a 
time he was already struggling. 
Fleet told Mr M they wouldnt be able to extend the interest rate product, and Mr M 
complained. Fleet issued their final response letter in May 2020. They said that they were 
unable to offer extensions of mortgage products, as the way theyre built does not facilitate 
that and it would constitute a breach of their funding agreements with their respective 
funders. They said that they were doing what they could to help borrowers adversely 
affected by the pandemic, however granting an extension to a fixed term product was not 
something they could accommodate.
On 20 May 2020 Mr M applied for another re-mortgage with Fleet. A valuation of the 
property was completed, which Mr M disputed. The appeals process was followed but 
ultimately unsuccessful. Fleet also had concerns about agreeing to a new mortgage on a 
new fixed rate whilst Mr M was unable to make his mortgage payments. As a result, they 
said they would only proceed with the application if Mr M could repay the missed payments 
during April, May and June 2020. Mr M repaid the outstanding amount and a mortgage offer 
was issued on 2 July 2020. The new mortgage completed later that month.
Mr M asked our service to look into what had happened. He didnt think it was fair he had to 
pay the banks variable rate for June and July when he was unable to secure a new rate for 
reasons beyond his control. He was also unhappy that Fleet had required him to repay the 
outstanding amount accrued during the payment deferral before theyd offer him a re-
mortgage. He said hed had to borrow money at short notice and the whole situation caused 
him a lot of mental distress and anguish.
Our investigator looked into things and explained that he didnt think Fleet were acting 
unreasonably by not extending his fixed rate mortgage product. He explained that wasnt 
something they were able to do. However, he didnt think Fleet were acting reasonably when 
they asked Mr M to repay the outstanding payment amounts before they would offer him a 
re-mortgage. He didnt think that was treating him fairly when he was already going through 
a difficult time, and he said they should have offered for him to repay that amount over a 
longer period. He didnt see thered been any direct financial loss caused by Fleets actions, 
but he did recommend that Fleet pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Neither party accepted the investigators opinion.
Mr M said that whilst he was happy for the deferred payments to be repaid over the term of 
the mortgage, he thought £1,000 was a more appropriate amount to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience hed experienced. 
Fleet said that as this was a re-mortgage, not just a product switch, they werent able to roll 
over the deferred payments in order for them to be repaid over a longer term. They gave 
more detail about how their mortgages are funded  and essentially said, the original 
mortgage would have been funded by one funding partner, but the re-mortgage would have 
been funded by a different funding partner. And so they need to repay the first funding 
partner in full when the mortgage is redeemed. That would include the deferred payments. 
They said it wouldnt have been possible to have done what the investigator suggested 
without breaching their agreements with the funding partners.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The valuation
Mr M applied for a re-mortgage with Fleet in March 2020, which in ordinary circumstances 
would usually have been sufficient time for the re-mortgage (and the new interest rate) to 
have completed before his existing one expired on 31 May. 
However, as a result of the pandemic, severe delays were caused across the industry from 
March 2020 onwards when it came to mortgage applications. One reason for that was 
because surveyors could not go out to value properties. Fleet told Mr Ms broker in April 
2020 that they wouldnt be able to complete a survey on the property, and so they couldnt 
proceed with the application until that changed. Mr Ms broker requested that a desktop 
valuation was completed instead, but Fleet declined to take this any further.
Fleet have provided details of their policy which sets out that a full valuation is required for 
any mortgage application. They said they do not rely on desktop valuations. Lenders are 
entitled to set their own policies to reflect the level of risk theyre willing to take on when 
lending a mortgage. And Fleet have followed their policy when considering Mr Ms 
application.
Ive considered whether it would have made a difference to the application had Fleet allowed 
the re-mortgage to go ahead based on the outcome of a desktop valuation, and I dont think 
it would have. I say this because Mr M had said the value of the house should have gone up 
considerably following extensive works hed had done. He challenged the physical valuation 
after it had eventually been completed because he didnt think it had taken account of the 
improvements hed made. That caused delays during the second application he made. 
Given he wasnt happy with the outcome of the physical valuation, I very much doubt he 
would have accepted a desktop valuation which was even less likely to have taken account 
of any improvements made to the property since the last valuation in 2018. So, I dont think Mr M has lost out as a result of Fleets decision not to proceed on the basis of a desktop 
valuation.
Mr Ms request for an extension of his interest rate product
As a result of the valuation not being able to take place before May, Mr Ms mortgage moved 
onto Fleets variable rate in June 2020 which increased his monthly payments significantly. 
So Mr M asked Fleet to extend his fixed interest rate period in the meantime.
I dont think it was unreasonable of Fleet to decline Mr Ms request. The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders about how they should support borrowers who 
were impacted by the pandemic. This guidance applied equally to buy to let mortgages such 
as this one  even though theyre not regulated mortgages. And as a result of that guidance, 
Fleet gave Mr M a three month payment deferral. So he did not have to make the higher 
payments when the mortgage moved onto the variable rate at the time. There was no 
guidance issued that said lenders should consider extending interest rate products, or 
amend the interest rate payable for those impacted by the pandemic. The help lenders were 
encouraged to give was to allow borrowers to pause payments whilst they may not have 
been able to make them. That is what Fleet offered to Mr M and he didnt need to make any 
payments for three months as a result. Given the circumstances, I think that was reasonable.
The re-mortgage and deferred payments
I think its relevant to note that Fleets business model is such that they dont offer product 
switches to any of their existing borrowers. So if a borrower wants to take out a new interest 
rate on expiry of their old one, they need to complete a re-mortgage application through a 
broker and Fleet would consider that as a brand new application from a new customer, as 
opposed to making changes to an existing mortgage. Theres nothing inherently wrong or 
unfair about that as a starting point, as all their customers are being treated in the same way.
When Mr Ms payment deferral ended, Fleet sent him a letter to explain what his options 
were for repaying the outstanding amount. That letter said it was in Mr Ms best interests to 
repay the deferred amount as soon he could in order to minimise the interest he would pay. 
But, if he was unable to do that, he could choose to make an arrangement to repay the 
amount over a set period. As the deferred amount would accrue interest, they recommended 
Mr M repay the amount over the shortest period he could afford from the options of 3, 6, 9, 
or 12 months. The letter also explained that there may be other options, and encouraged 
borrowers to contact them if they were still experiencing financial difficulty.
The FCA issued guidance to lenders about how they should treat borrowers at the end of a 
payment deferral. This guidance encouraged both parties to engage about what would be 
the most appropriate for the borrower in the circumstances, bearing in mind what was 
affordable for them at the time. Fleet encouraged Mr M to call and discuss what would be 
best in his circumstances, which I think was reasonable. 
But Mr M did not want to keep his existing mortgage. He had applied to re-mortgage, which 
meant repaying the existing borrowing and taking out new lending. So the options that Fleet 
had previously told him about were no longer relevant.
Fleet were considering a new borrower application from Mr M at the time, and I think it was 
reasonable that they would have concerns about the fact that for the three months leading 
up to the application, Mr M was unable to make his monthly payments. I dont think it would 
have been responsible for Fleet to agree to the lending without being comfortable that the 
new mortgage payments would be affordable for Mr M.
But I do think Fleet could have handled the situation better. I dont think they needed to 
request that those deferred payments were made before theyd agree to the further lending. I 
think it would have been reasonable for them to assess Mr Ms affordability for the new 
mortgage amount (which would have included the deferred payments) based on his 
circumstances at the time. But as part of that assessment, Fleet would have wanted to see that Mr M would be able to make the payments required under the new mortgage contract. 
So if Mr M was unable to make up the deferred payments, they would have wanted to know 
how we was going to afford the payments moving forward. That was something Fleet were 
required to check in order to ensure they were lending responsibly. 
Mr Ms application for the re-mortgage was submitted in May 2020, and that was based on 
the mortgage balance that was outstanding at the time, which should have included the 
deferred payments that had not been paid as per the mortgage agreement. I dont agree with 
what Fleet have said about their reasons for not being able to capitalise the deferred 
payments onto the mortgage balance. If Mr M had not repaid the deferred payments, the 
outstanding mortgage balance would have remained as it was. He would have applied to 
borrow that outstanding balance from Fleet again via the re-mortgage, and so Fleet would 
still have received the original mortgage funds back to fulfil their own agreements with their 
funders. So I dont think it was necessary for Fleet to insist Mr M repay those deferred 
payments for that reason.
But, as Ive said, Mr M was applying for a mortgage at a time when hed told Fleet he was 
unable to make the monthly payments as a result of the pandemic, and so I think it was 
reasonable that Fleet wanted some sort of assurance the payments under the new mortgage 
agreement would be affordable for Mr M. It seems the repayment of the deferred payments 
gave Fleet that reassurance. Its clear Mr M was keen for this mortgage to go through as 
quickly as possible to avoid being on the variable interest rate longer than he needed to be.
In any event, Mr M was able to repay the amount in full and he hasnt said there was a direct 
financial loss from him having to do that. By repaying the amount as a lump sum, he has 
avoided the need to pay interest on the amount, which will be cheaper than it would have 
been to add it to the new borrowing. Im also mindful that this is a buy-to-let mortgage that 
Mr M has for business purposes (as well as others), and so if the terms of the re-mortgage 
were not favourable for Mr M, he was free to look elsewhere and apply for a mortgage with a 
different lender.
Overall, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Fleet to have concerns over whether Mr M would 
be able to afford the re-mortgage following the payment deferral. Whilst I think they could 
have handled things better, Mr M was able to repay the amount in full without incurring any 
additional costs, which ultimately was in his best interests.
But I do think Fleet caused Mr M distress and inconvenience by requesting he repay those 
funds at short notice in order to get the mortgage approved. Mr M has said he had to borrow 
the money and this caused him great mental distress. The investigator recommended Fleet 
pay Mr M £300 to recognise that distress and inconvenience and I think thats a reasonable 
amount. 
Putting things right
I appreciate this was a stressful time for Mr M, and I understand why he wanted the 
mortgage application to proceed as quickly as possible in order to avoid his mortgage 
reverting to the higher variable rate. But whilst it was unfortunate that this was timed around 
the start of the global pandemic, Im not satisfied that Fleet treated Mr M unfairly when 
refusing to extend his interest rate product. I do however think they should have handled the 
re-mortgage application differently for the reasons Ive explained above. As a result, Im 
satisfied they should pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Fleet Mortgages Ltd to pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman