DRN-2812520
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) didnt do enough to prevent 
him from becoming the victim of an investment scam and losing around £450,000.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 31 March 2021, which I attach for 
reference. To summarise, I was minded to uphold the complaint and recommend that 
HSBC refund the disputed payments on and after 1 June 2018, minus what was already 
recovered. I also thought HSBC should add interest to this sum, at the savings account 
rate(s) that Mr H had previously benefited from. And, to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H, I thought it reasonable for the bank to award him £300 
compensation.
In short, it was my judgment that Mr H had authorised all of the disputed transactions from 
this date  but HSBC ought to have intervened with a particular payment which Mr H 
instructed it to make for £200,000 to a beneficiary overseas. On account of its value being 
unusually high in comparison to the other recent account history, coupled with it being an 
international payment, I thought that the circumstances of this particular transaction ought 
to have been triggered by HSBC as uncharacteristic in contrast to the other account 
activity.
Besides, I considered that, even if its arguable whether there was a reasonable 
expectation for HSBC to trigger this payment as unusual, Mr H had called HSBCs 
telephone banking team and got through to an agent for the transaction to proceed  which 
presented a natural opportunity for the bank to put reasonably probing questions to him 
before the payment was executed.
As I saw it, it was more likely than not that (with appropriate probing and questioning from 
the bank) Mr H wouldnt have gone ahead with sending this payment. All in all, had HSBC 
gone far enough in line with a banks duty to undertake due diligence and/or treat 
customers fairly, I was persuaded that Mr H and/or the bank would have become 
suspicious about the scam and stopped the payment in its tracks. The fraud would have 
failed; and Mr H would not have lost the £200,000 or the disputed transactions that 
ensued.
Taking everything into consideration, including the legal and regulatory anti-money 
laundering obligations HSBC must abide by, I was minded to determine that HSBC 
refund the disputed payments made on and after 1 June 2018  with the only reduction 
being the payments credited to Mr Hs account after this date (which Mr H concedes 
have mitigated his loss).
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr H informed our service that he accepts my provisional findings and didnt submit any 
further evidence for consideration.
HSBC does not accept my provisional decision. In summary, the bank submits that:
Considering the circumstances, particularly the length of time that the scammers 
had misled Mr H for, any intervention from bank staff wouldve made no material 
difference to whether or not Mr H proceeded with the payment on 1 June 2018. 
The scam was only uncovered because the fraudsters ceased all communication 
with him  this wouldve remained the case regardless of the bank asking certain 
questions.
Further, expecting the bank to have helped Mr H unravel the scam through 
appropriate probing is speculative and, on the whole, unrealistic. Especially, in 
the context of its staff only having a single phone call with him when he 
instructed the payment. In other words, HSBC argues the case fails on 
grounds of causation.
The banks position is also that Mr H took insufficient care to protect himself 
against falling foul to the scam. Specifically, his conduct in validating the 
investments by first sending token payments to the so-called deal is concerning. 
In HSBCs view, its evident that Mr H identified a risk of fraud and proceeded 
nevertheless.
In support of this position, HSBC referenced a recent paper (Authorised push 
payment (APP) scams: Call for views) published by the Payment Systems 
Regulator (PSR) in February 2021. Amongst other things, this publication 
highlights the legal requirement of consumers needing to take responsibility for 
their actions.
HSBC also pointed to a particular section of The Financial Services (Banking 
Reform) Act 2013 (FSBRA 2013). Specifically, Section 53(d) which sets out 
the general principle that those who use services provided by payment 
systems should take responsibility for their decisions.
Finally, HSBC maintains that Mr H failed to undertake sufficient due diligence 
before going ahead with these investments. Had he conducted adequate 
research accordingly, he wouldve realised that this was a mendacious scheme to 
scam him out of his money. For example, HSBC has pointed to what it sees as 
unrealistic returns being promised. Yet, Mr H did not obtain professional advice 
despite planning on parting with significant sums of money. Overall, HSBC argues 
its reasonable that Mr H should bear the responsibility for his financial loss.
In light of this, HSBC does not accept that it should be required to refund anything to Mr H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Ive paid particular attention to HSBCs submissions in response to my 
provisional decision.Firstly, HSBC is aware that the DISP rules and guidance in the FCA Handbook set out the 
basis on which an ombudsman makes decisions. The powers given to me to determine 
complaints require me to do so by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take 
into account  but am not bound by  relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time (see DISP 3.6.4 of the FCA Handbook).
HSBC has raised a number of points in response to my provisional findings. After careful 
consideration, Im not persuaded that the legal arguments presented by the bank, nor the 
particular statutory and/or regulatory provisions its referenced, prevent me from determining 
this complaint in favour of Mr H on a fair and reasonable basis.
My determination of the complaint is ultimately unchanged. My provisional findings already 
addressed most of the arguments submitted by HSBC in response to my provisional 
decision. And Mr H did not materially object to what I was minded to conclude before. Ive 
therefore focused on the key points that are left in dispute.
I turn first to causation. This is a critical deciding factor in this (and every) case whether 
fraud/scams or otherwise. It is not enough that a respondent failed to act fairly or reasonably; 
its wrongful acts or omissions must be the proximate (i.e. dominant and effective) cause of 
losses of a type that were reasonably foreseeable to the wrongdoer at the time of the 
breach. This is usually determined by the but for test  through a lens of common sense. In 
other words, would the loss have occurred but for the wrongdoing in question?
Despite HSBCs response to my provisional decision, I maintain that the dominant and 
effective cause of the loss here was the banks failure to ask suitably probing questions 
and/or intervene with regard to the unusual or uncharacteristic payment request of 1 June 
2018 (see the provisional decision).
HSBC contends that Mr H actively misled bank staff when questioned about the purpose of 
the £200,000 payment. And that, in such circumstances, its unreasonable to determine that 
it acted in error by failing to uncover the matters about which it was misled.
However, I do not accept that. Its common ground that, during the telephone conversation to 
execute the payment, Mr H told HSBC that he was making the payment in connection to a 
will (amongst other words to that effect). The bank states that this was untruthful, but the 
evidence does not support such a serious allegation. Mr H says  and I accept  that he was 
indeed using money that became available to him as part of a will. He chose to invest these 
proceeds with the intention of securing financial growth. Owing to the non-disclosure 
agreement (NDA) that he thought he was under, he may not have been as full and frank as 
one might expect of a court witness giving testimony under oath; but there is no persuasive 
evidence that he was being untruthful or sought to mislead HSBC about this particular 
payment. On balance, I consider that Mr H was trying to be honest to the bank whilst also 
true to the NDA.
Mr H did genuinely believe he was putting inheritance to good use while under the spell of 
the scammers. This does not lead me to think that he was fabricating a cover story or being 
dishonest. In my view, this was just a vague response to a rather vague question. As such, I 
dont think it can fairly be concluded that Mr Hs actions or comments during the call with 
HSBC on 1 June 2018 amounted to him deliberately misleading the bank.I accept bank staff do ultimately have to make decisions based on the information they are 
given by customers. And its true that Mr H didnt detail the exact conditions of what he 
thought at the time was an investment deal. Nevertheless, the relevant standards and 
regulations  plus good industry practice  indicate that a bank does have a duty to protect 
its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as reasonably possible. So, as the 
financial professionals, it is up to the bank staff to find out enough information about the 
purpose of the payment in order to make an informed decision. Therefore, the question 
remains whether HSBC appropriately probed Mr H based on the information it had available.
In this case, Mr H was making an out of character and unusual payment. Hence, even 
though the reason for the payment was potentially plausible (on the face of things), for the 
reasons I have given previously (and which HSBC has not contradicted adequately or at all), 
I maintain that HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have asked further questions, on top of 
the ones already posed, in order to satisfy itself that Mr H wasnt likely to be at risk of 
financial harm  or involved in money laundering  in all the circumstances of the 
transaction.
I do consider the level and depth of questioning ought to be proportionate to the situation. I 
accept that there is a balance to strike  and Im not suggesting Mr H shouldve been 
subjected to an interrogation by bank staff. HSBC submits that, although they can take many 
different forms, a will is typically a private arrangement and certain lines of questioning 
wouldve been inappropriate for bank staff to explore. HSBC says that Mr H wouldve been 
reasonably entitled to decline to divulge certain details about the will  and he could do so 
without raising suspicion.
Of course, a will can be a sensitive subject. But be that as it may, Im not persuaded that an 
overbearing line of questioning needed to be brought about by HSBC during the call when 
this payment took place. Querying some basic information about the beneficiary and/or 
discreetly asking for some background about the connection between the will and the 
payment itself wouldnt necessarily have invaded Mr Hs privacy  and would likely have 
made all the difference.
For example, if HSBC were conscious of the potential upset certain questions might have 
caused, it could simply have asked who the beneficiary was or why the payment was being 
made to an overseas account  neither of which are intimate or intrusive. In this case, I cant 
accept that asking appropriate questions to unlock the purpose and beneficiary of the 
payment was necessarily the same as venturing into the sensitive arrangements in place as 
a result of a bereavement.
HSBC insists that Mr H would not have revealed the existence of the NDA even if bank staff 
had questioned him further, in light of the secretive nature of the agreement. I believe my 
provisional findings have sufficiently addressed this argument already  and I have not since 
been persuaded otherwise. I still see it that, even if Mr H had neglected to mention the NDA, 
bank staff who had asked appropriate probing questions would have been faced with a 
customer that was requesting an uncharacteristically large transaction overseas but was 
reluctant to share any real details about it. Which, against the backdrop of HSBCs strict 
obligations (including anti-money laundering requirements), meant the bank ought 
reasonably to have conducted further due diligence before proceeding with making the 
payment.
HSBC has questioned the relevance of anti-money laundering measures, given that the 
money Mr H was using (i.e. the £200,000), originated from his savings account with the 
bank. In other words, it appears to be clean.In my view, the fact that Mr H was using money held elsewhere by the bank did not 
necessarily mean that there were not reasonable grounds to question him further. Indeed, he 
was requesting a vast international payment instruction which, on HSBCs version of events, 
would have had an intended beneficiary and purpose that was shrouded in an unreasonable 
level of secrecy.
The money could well have originated from a familiar and lawful source  but this doesnt 
automatically mean that something wasnt amiss with where it was heading to or why it was 
being sent there in the first place. But, most significantly, when considering counterfactuals, 
we need to think about the situation as it might have looked at the material time  not just 
with the benefit of hindsight. HSBC has not substantiated that it was in fact aware that the
£200,000 was clean at the material time: theres no clear evidence that this important 
safeguard was actually checked during the call or immediately afterwards, i.e. before the 
payment was irretrievably sent.
So, in the particular circumstances of this individual case, I still think that HSBC ought fairly 
and reasonably to have asked some additional questions in order to satisfy itself about the 
purpose and legitimacy of such a large overseas payment. Yet, according to the records the 
bank has provided, it merely asked what the payment was for. And when Mr H gave vague 
responses, HSBC did not pursue this further as might reasonably have been expected of a 
bank charged with carrying out such due diligence.
Ive thought again about what was likely to have happened had HSBC asked additional 
questions. Having done so, I am still not persuaded that Mr H would have been able to 
answer further questions plausibly and sufficiently to reassure HSBC that he was not caught 
up in something untoward. I say this for the same reasons I set out in my provisional 
findings.
But to go further, Mr H has told us that he did not know any real specifics of the so-called 
investment venture that the £200,000 payment was for. This is corroborated by the copy of 
the supposed NDA that he has provided to our service. At the time, Mr H trusted what he 
was being told  with credibility having been built over the several months that the scammers 
had coerced him. Unfortunately, it seems that the sophisticated techniques they employed 
were building towards the biggest payment yet  and Mr H was duped into relying on his 
previous arrangements with the scammers to trust what they were proposing with this
£200,000 venture.
Upon reviewing this fake NDA document, all the agreement really specifies is that Mr H was 
forbidden from disclosing the little that he had been told. Such as, the alleged brokers of the 
deal, for example. Therefore, HSBC wouldve been met with a request from a consumer to 
finance a deal they essentially knew hardly anything about; other than the money was to be 
sent somewhere in exchange for promised (but, to a banking professional, unrealistic)
high-returns. And upon delving further into this through probing, it quickly wouldve become 
evident to HSBC that Mr H didnt even know it was an overseas payment.
As a bank that often sees all types of fraud, Im satisfied that appropriate questioning would 
have made it apparent to HSBC that this had the hallmarks of a common and well-known 
scam. At this point, I think its more likely than not that bank staff would have become 
suspicious and escalated the matter accordingly  and, consequently, I think its more likely 
than not that the scam would have come to light before it was too late.When reaching this conclusion, I am mindful that HSBC appears to have placed emphasis 
on it being restricted to the single call it had with Mr H about this payment. Its asserted that 
any intervention by its staff needs to be considered in the context of what can realistically be 
achieved in just the one call. However, I cant agree that the bank had only this opportunity 
to gather/validate information.
Rather, I believe there were reasonable grounds for HSBC to pause and ask Mr H for 
supporting information. HSBC is permitted to ask for a moment to review matters before 
going ahead with a consumers instructions while on the phone  much the same as it can 
pause briefly in branch. Indeed, its evident from the call recordings the bank has provided 
that it previously agreed with Mr H that it would review matters and call him back, before 
proceeding with executing other payments he had instructed via telephone banking.
In many instances, a pause (whether that be of a consumers own making or as a result of a 
banks intervention) will cause a consumer to think twice and makes all the difference 
because the pressure of the moment has passed.
Even if momentarily taking a break were not enough to have made Mr H become 
incredulous about the scam and stopped the payment in its tracks, HSBC could have asked 
him to provide supporting documentation. Given its experience and resources towards 
tackling fraud and scams, its probable that the bank wouldve seen through the counterfeit 
material he had been sent by the scammers. The NDA and/or the documentation would 
most likely have been exposed as fake (they were not convincing to my eyes) and Mr Hs 
losses would probably have been avoided.
Furthermore, if HSBC had any doubts about the veracity or adequacy of the documents 
supplied to Mr H, this would have caused him to have to request further information from the 
scammers  likely resulting in the perpetrators being scared off at the risk of their exposure. 
Everything considered, I find it improbable that the scam would have succeeded from this 
point onwards if HSBC had asked appropriate questions and/or sought confirmatory 
evidence.
I accept this is a finely-balanced case. But all in all, I am satisfied there were enough 
triggers to have alerted a responsible regulated bank like HSBC that Mr Hs account was 
being subjected to unusual and uncharacteristic activity such that there were reasonable 
grounds to suspect fraud or a scam, and therefore justify an intervention. Under these 
circumstances, Im persuaded that, if bank staff had sought to establish further details about 
the transaction, it seems highly likely that the scam would have been exposed there and 
then, thereby preventing any further losses. Mr H would not have lost the £200,000 and he 
also wouldnt have been persuaded to send the subsequent payments that were lost 
thereafter.
Finally, I address HSBCs submission that Mr H himself failed to undertake sufficient due 
diligence and care. Given that he was parting with significant sums, the bank argues that it 
was his responsibility to carry out adequate research and satisfy himself that the investments 
and the individuals with whom he was speaking were legitimate.
HSBC has cited one of the regulatory principles contained in the FSBRA 2013 in support of 
this position that liability ought to fall on Mr H, with certain commentary contained in the 
paper published by the PSR appearing to corroborate the provision that those who use 
services provided by payment systems should take responsibility for their decisions. In 
simpler terms, the bank is relying on this because it maintains that Mr H ultimately decided to 
go ahead with the transaction  and therefore he, not HSBC, should be held responsible for 
that decision.Section 53(d) is one of many principles that the PSR has to consider in its capacity as the 
regulator of the market. And it's important to note that these are broad standards that the 
PSR must pay regard to when discharging its general functions relating to payment systems. 
Its fair to say that they are not expressly aimed at setting out the specific obligations or 
responsibilities a consumer has when an authorised payment transaction is lost as a result 
of a scam.
Rather, by definition, these regulatory principles form part of the general and overall 
guidelines for the regulation of this part of the payments services industry. In any event, they 
are not substantially different from the usual considerations our service takes account of 
when deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Indeed, our enabling 
statute, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, contains a similar general principle 
about the need for consumers to take responsibility for their decisions  and we always take 
account of that (see s.1C(d) of the 2000 Act).
In my provisional decision, I set out what I deem to be the key considerations  and I remain 
of the view that these considerations are the relevant ones. So, while I have paid due regard 
to the principles set out in the FSBRA 2013, they make no material difference to the 
outcome. I accept that Mr H himself had a responsibility for his own decisions. But none of 
that absolves HSBC of the responsibilities it has and which I set out in my provisional 
findings.
It remains my judgment that Mr H can only fairly be held partially responsible (with a 
commensurate deduction in compensation) if he reasonably foresaw some sort of risk of this 
sort of harm and proceeded nevertheless. HSBC suggests that Mr H did exactly that  he 
tested the water with smaller, token payments to check that the scammers were genuine.
In the early stages of this scam, it may well have been the case that Mr H wanted to take 
stock of what he was being promised by investing lesser amounts. But this could simply 
have been for the sole reason that he wanted to test the likely performance of these 
proposed investments, rather than the credibility of the individuals he was liaising with and 
the overall legitimacy of the venture he was buying into.
Crucially, investing what you can afford to lose to begin with is not the same as foreseeing a 
risk over the legitimacy of the scheme itself. With all investment comes risk  so, arguably, 
Mr Hs actions in the early stages of this scam were a prudent attempt to satisfy himself that 
the overall affair was a reasonably safe bet. Or, at the very least, within the margin of loss 
that he could afford and tolerate. Which, based on its submissions, appears in keeping with 
what HSBC would expect of a consumer taking responsibility for their decisions.
In any case, the acts and omissions of Mr H in the early days of this scam do not necessarily 
have a material bearing on his liability for this particular payment made in June 2018.
Ultimately, I must place the most weight on what I believe can be reasonably relied on. And 
Im satisfied that, considering the length of time that he had been successfully scammed by 
the time of the £200,000 payment (around ten months), together with the multiple dividends 
hed received in exchange for his prior payments, Mr H did not foresee a real risk of harm 
with this payment on 1 June 2018. On the contrary, he felt assured to the extent that he 
didnt seek independent financial advice, on the basis that his prior payments had resulted in 
fair gain. I am satisfied that he was utterly reassured and duped by a very sophisticated and 
persuasive scam.Its therefore my judgment that Mr H did not foresee any risk with this particular payment 
instruction. It follows that it would neither be fair nor reasonable to find he should be wholly 
or partly responsible for the loss resulting from this transaction (or the disputed payments 
that followed). I make no deduction for contributory negligence.
Its also worth adding that Mr H has accepted that the bank could not reasonably be held 
liable for the payments he made prior to 1 June 2018  a sum of nearly £200,000. Hes not 
disagreed with my provisional finding not to ask the bank to refund that considerable amount 
of money. So, even if Mr H were partly to blame for the later payments, its arguable that 
hes taken fair responsibility for his overall decisions and overall losses. To my mind, this 
leaves the case with a fair, reasonable and balanced outcome.
My final decision
According to DISP Rule 3.7.4 of the FCA Handbook, where I uphold a complaint 
concerning an act or omission which occurred before 1 April 2019 (as is the case here), I 
can award fair compensation to be paid by a respondent up to £160,000 plus any interest 
and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than 
£160,000, I may recommend that the respondent pays the balance.
For the reasons given above and before, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint 
and I think fair compensation is for HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) to:
refund the disputed payments from 1 June 2018 onwards (minus what has already 
been credited back to Mr H); plus
pay interest on the disputed payment amounts at Mr Hs savings account interest 
rate(s) from the dates of loss to the date of refund (less any tax properly 
deductible); plus
pay Mr H £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Because of the statutory cap on our awards, I can only formally order HSBC to pay Mr H
£160,000 plus the interest as set out above. That would be a binding award if accepted 
on time by Mr H.
However, because I determine that fair compensation exceeds the £160,000 awards cap 
that applies to the circumstances of this particular case, I recommend that HSBC also 
pays Mr H the balance. This recommendation does not form part of my binding 
determination or award. HSBC doesnt have to do what I recommend. And its unlikely Mr 
H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
Matthew Belcher
OmbudsmanCOPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) didnt do enough to prevent 
him from becoming the victim of an investment scam and losing around £450,000.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr H received a cold-call from an individual who claimed to be from an 
investment advisory company. Unbeknown to Mr H at the time, this individual formed part of 
a group of fraudsters that were pretending to be advisors at three different investment firms 
(which were in fact phoney).
Mr H was persuaded to make payments for what he thought were genuine investments  
when in fact his money was stolen as part of a sophisticated scam. He began with paying 
small amounts  in the region of a few thousand pounds  which he saw as a calculated risk 
to validate the legitimacy of the investments.
It started with Mr H being satisfied that the first company was genuine, based on the sales 
techniques and convincing supporting material he was given. One of the other persuading 
factors was that the so-called advisors would arrange for money to credit his HSBC accounts 
in return for his buy-in to the promised venture, as a tactic to make him think that they could 
be trusted and his investments were performing well. When, all the while, it was actually a 
way to steal further and larger amounts of his money.
Mr H was then tricked into paying money to another of these so-called investment 
companies. Again, the scammers convinced Mr H that he was investing in genuine ventures 
and, amongst a host of persuasive material, he was given access to different online portals 
which he thought were showing the performance of investments. He also received money 
back at times, which, the same as the first company he spoke to, was for small amounts to 
represent how his investments had performed to date. Over the course of the following 
months, Mr H liaised with both of these investment companies and was duped into making 
a series of payments to them. Overall, he sent payments totalling around £200,000.
By 2018, the scammers were still scamming Mr H and the so-called advisors had continued 
to trick him into thinking that his investments were growing under their management. Mr H 
was then contacted by the third of these companies, C. Upon discussing Mr Hs investment 
strategy over the phone, C persuaded him to enter in multiple investments. Like before, Mr H 
first tested the proposals by initially transferring a small amount  on this occasion, it was
£1,000 in early 2018. Based on what he thought was satisfactory performance, Mr H then 
paid just under £50,000 in May 2018 to an account as instructed by C.
After this, Mr H was introduced by C to a new proposition. He was told that it was a bond 
with attractive prospects of growth on his capital. But he could not reveal specific details of 
the venture to any other party, given the sensitive commercial information involved. Mr H 
signed a confidential non-disclosure agreement (NDA) to that effect and, on 1 June 2018, 
he called HSBC to instruct it to make a £200,000 payment to an account for which C had 
given him the details. HSBC processed the payment according to Mr Hs instructions, via 
telephone banking.Following this transaction, Mr H made two further payments to C for a combined total of 
approximately £60,000. So, from 1 June 2018, Mr H had unwittingly paid the scammers a 
further c.£260,000 in three instalments. The first two were international payments to banks 
overseas. In return, C sent Mr H payments back to his HSBC bank accounts in July and 
August 2018, equating to around £6,000. Again, Mr H was told that these were drawdowns 
from his investments that he was free to spend as he wished. But the same as before, these 
drawdowns were just a further ploy to convince Mr H that C was genuine and to hide the 
fact that his money had been stolen instead of invested.
Shortly after the last of these payments into his account in August 2018, C and the other 
contacts Mr H had been in touch with ceased all communication with him and the online 
portals became unavailable. At this point, it dawned on Mr H that he had been the victim of a 
scam. Subsequently, he reported this to HSBC. In response, HSBC said it was not liable for 
Mr Hs loss because he authorised all of the payments using his legitimate security 
credentials  and it could not reasonably have done more to intervene or try to recoup the 
money from the payee banks.
Mr H brought the complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into it. Having 
considered everything, our investigator didnt believe that HSBC could fairly be expected to 
refund the c.£200,000 disputed payments made before June 2018  because he didnt think 
that the amounts Mr H had paid prior to this date ought to have triggered the banks fraud 
detection systems (based on normal, legitimate account activity). However, he thought that 
HSBC should have identified the payment made on 1 June 2018 as unusual for Mr Hs 
account. And had the bank properly questioned its purpose, the scam would ultimately have 
been prevented from that point onwards. Therefore, Mr H wouldnt have lost the c.£260,000.
As such, our investigator recommended that HSBC refund all of the disputed payments on 
and after 1 June 2018, plus interest. He noted that Mr Hs total loss was above our award 
limit but invited HSBC to pay the full amount plus £300 compensation for distress or 
inconvenience.
While Mr H strongly disagrees with the way in which HSBC has handled certain aspects of 
the matter, he fundamentally accepts that the bank could not reasonably be held liable for 
refunding the disputed transactions he made from October 2017 up until 1 June 2018. And 
so was ultimately in agreement with our investigators recommendation.
HSBC does not agree. In summary, it submits that:
Our service is the not the most appropriate forum in which to determine the 
complaint, and that a fairer approach would be an assessment of all the evidence in 
a court of law. From this, I am taking that HSBC believes the complaint should be 
dismissed under DISP 3.3.4A(5) and 3.3.4B(1) of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook, on the basis that it would be better suited to court given the significant 
sums involved;
Its staff processed Mr Hs payment in accordance with the prevailing industry 
standards and regulations at the time;
It would appear the Quincecare duty has been applied to this case, which is incorrect 
as recently confirmed by the High Court in the case of Philipp v Barclays Bank UK 
PLC [2021] EWHC 10 (Comm). The Quincecare duty does not apply and HSBC was 
under no obligations to make further inquiries in respect of the £200,000 payment 
made on 1 June 2018.Although the £200,000 payment was for a higher value than previous transactions, 
Mr H frequently made high-value payments from the account. And bank staff spoke 
to Mr H and he stated that this payment was in connection with a will; therefore, 
HSBC had an explanation for the value;
On account of this, the only basis on which the payment on 1 June 2018 could be 
described as out of character is on account of its value  for which an explanation 
was provided by Mr H;
Mr H was negligent on any assessment and should also bear responsibility for the 
loss that he has suffered.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im currently minded to 
uphold it  for the reasons that follow.
Dismissal under DISP 3.3.4 of the FCA Handbook
HSBC submits that the dispute here would be better suited to a court of law, particularly 
given the significant sums involved, which exceed the £160,000 statutory cap on our awards 
(for a complaint referred when it was relating to events before 1 April 2019).
However, Im not satisfied it would be appropriate to dismiss this particular complaint simply 
due to the sums involved. There may be a few cases where it would be disadvantageous for 
a complainant to proceed with us because the sums involved are so much higher than the 
statutory cap that he potentially stands to lose more that he might gain due to the doctrine of 
res judicata whereby a person cant bring judicial-type proceedings more than once over the 
same issues (see the Court of Appeal in Clark and another v In Focus Asset Management 
and Tax Solutions Ltd (Financial Ombudsman Service intervening) [2014] EWCA Civ 118). 
However, we do not lightly dismiss such complaints, especially if a complainant has 
indicated that he is prepared to take the risk of settling for less than he might get at law.
It also strikes me as illogical for HSBC to argue on the one hand that this case is more suited 
to court; but on the other hand, effectively assert that we should reject the case on its merits 
due to the recent Philipp case. It would be irrational and arbitrary for me to exercise a 
discretion to dismiss which gave a complainant no real choice and effectively amounted to a 
denial of his statutory right to a fair and reasonable alternative to litigation via our scheme, 
which was set up by parliament expressly to mitigate potential injustices in cases where the 
application of strict law might result in consumer detriment.
There are cases where the exceptionally high quantum but real availability of alternative 
redress in court make the latter a more suitable option. And we do sometimes dismiss cases 
on that basis, e.g. a straightforward insurance dispute where the quantum is very high but 
there is unlikely to be any material difference between how we or a court would interpret the 
disputed policy terms and conditions  because, for the most part, the law and this service 
are aligned on what seems fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But if, as HSBC 
says, redress via the courts is so restricted for authorised payments because of Quincecare 
and Philipp, that seems like a good reason for us not to dismiss.In any event, the option for dismissal under DISP 3.3.4 has effectively passed, as our 
scheme is also subject to The Alternative Dispute Resolution for Consumer Disputes 
(Competent Authorities and Information) Regulations 2015 [SI 2015/542]  and these 
indicate that any decision refusing to deal with a dispute should, unless there are exceptional 
changes in circumstances, be communicated within three weeks of receipt of the complaint 
file. So, the dismissal window closed a long time ago  and I decline to dismiss the 
complaint at this very late stage in the proceedings.
The merits of this case
Based on his response to our investigators assessment, it seems that Mr H accepts the 
conclusion that its fair and reasonable for the bank to refund the £200,000 payment he sent 
in June 2018 and the subsequent disputed payments that ensued. Conversely, HSBC states 
that it should not refund any of the payments. Ive therefore focused my decision on whats 
left in dispute, with the outcome of the complaint turning on the payment made on 1 June 
2018 and the payments that followed. If I havent commented specifically on a detail or an 
argument, its not because I havent considered it  rather, its because I do not deem it 
material to the outcome.
HSBC submits that the basis of our investigators conclusions has not been explained in 
reference to legal standards, except that of the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs). I 
am mindful that my fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time in many previous decisions, both to HSBC 
and published on our website. HSBC is also aware that in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time (see 
DISP 3.6.4 of the FCA Handbook).
Nevertheless, for the avoidance of doubt, the starting position at law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the PSRs (in this case the 2017 regulations) and the terms and conditions 
of the customers account. That was the case when all of these disputed payments were 
made, and remains so now, and I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair 
and reasonable in this case. In addition:
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk 
that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism requirements. At the time of all of these disputed 
payments, those requirements included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive 
policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for 
example through customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of 
the business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship). The law itself also recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily 
proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the 
funds of its customer (i.e. the Quincecare duty).
Taking all of these things into account, I consider that at the time of the payment in 
June 2018, HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr H when it processed the £200,000 payment (and the disputed payments 
that followed).
Its common ground that Mr H authorised these payments, and I accept that they were 
authorised payments even though he was the victim of a sophisticated scam. He 
requested each of the payments through HSBCs telephone banking channel, having first 
verified that he was the account holder via his proper security credentials. So, although he 
did not intend the money to go to a fraudster, under the PSRs, and the terms and 
conditions of his account, Mr H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
I am aware that HSBC considers too high a standard has been applied to what is 
expected of it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of 
financial harm; and it has referred to case law in support of its argument. I am mindful that 
the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint 
are different to that case. I am also aware of the recent Philipp judgment HSBC has 
referenced in its submissions, where the judge took a narrow view about the Quincecare 
duty.
Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And notwithstanding what 
the judge said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, we have a duty to resolve 
complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time  in other words, the standards I have set out above.
I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. The systems 
and procedures HSBC puts in place to manage those competing demands are a matter for 
the bank. But it is neither unfair nor unreasonable to expect a bank to double-check 
payment instructions that ought reasonably trigger concerns as to whether they are 
unusual or uncharacteristic for this particular customer and/or account activity.HSBC has conceded that the payment made on 1 June 2018 could be described as out of 
character, on account of its value being unusually high in comparison to the other recent 
account history. While I appreciate that Mr H may have held an account which HSBC says 
caters for more high-net worth individuals  £200,000 was nonetheless an 
uncharacteristically high amount for him to pay out. Whats also significant is that it was an 
international payment  whereas, the overwhelming majority of the other account 
movements were to and from bank accounts within the UK. So, its my judgment that, at 
the time Mr H authorised this payment, the circumstances of this particular transaction 
ought to have been triggered by HSBC as uncharacteristic in contrast to the other account 
activity.
Even if its arguable whether there was a reasonable expectation for HSBC to trigger this 
payment as out of character, Mr H called HSBCs telephone banking team and got through 
to an agent for the transaction to proceed  which presented a natural opportunity for the 
bank to put reasonably probing questions to him before the payment was executed. Besides, 
HSBC states that, during this conversation, its staff did question Mr H about the nature of the 
payment. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank did enough in all the 
circumstances given its anti-money-laundering and due diligence obligations.
Although Mr H disputes certain details that HSBC has documented about its conversation 
with him on 1 June 2018, Im satisfied the transcript the bank has presented summarises 
what was discussed with reasonable accuracy. This evidence indicates that HSBCs 
enquiries did not go far enough into establishing the true nature of the payment. Im not 
suggesting that Mr H should have been subject to an interrogation, but merely a reasonable 
level of probing questions designed to disturb or unearth potential fraud and establish 
whether he was at risk of financial harm (or, critically, whether anything untoward was going 
on with regard to money laundering, etc).
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions that I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been asked by HSBC would have made a difference. In my view, it 
would have been proportionate for bank staff to have asked Mr H to provide details such as 
to whom the money was being paid and why it was an international payment. But all that is 
recorded is that HSBC asked what the payment was for  with Mr H explaining that he was 
making the payment in connection to a will, and that the payment was to execute a will. At 
no point was it established, for example, whether Mr H had plans consistent with an 
international payment, e.g. a purchase of a property abroad that needed a corresponding 
payment to an overseas estate agent or lawyer.
In my view, executing a will or making a payment in connection to a will are both relatively 
vague responses that did not afford the bank a completely plausible or clear explanation for 
why such a large sum of money was being sent out of the country. It remained unclear why 
money from a will would be sent abroad to just one commercial/non-retail account when
Mr H hadnt confirmed any detail about the beneficiary. On the face of it, I think such 
answers and facts should, on their own face, have caused the bank concerns and prompted 
more in-depth questioning. Mr H states  and I accept  that he was under the impression 
that he was making a domestic payment to an investment company based in the UK. 
Therefore, if the bank had told that he was in fact making an international payment to a bank 
overseas, this would have conflicted with his understanding and likely caused him to 
entertain doubts about sending the payment  and would probably have unravelled the scam 
completely at that point.The bank submits that Mr H would have tried to conceal the true nature of this particular 
transaction, even upon questioning from bank staff. Its not in dispute that Mr H believed at 
the time that he was making a payment in pursuit of an investment which required him to 
sign an NDA. The cunning techniques of the scammers had convinced him that there was a 
legitimate need for the NDA to avoid the risk of the exposure of commercial sensitivities. And 
its true that Mr H has at times said that he would have been reluctant to reveal details of the 
particular investment he was trying to make with the £200,000 payment.
Be that as it may, Mr H hadnt been told to be secretive or been asked to sign an NDA in 
relation to the overall relationship he had with C, nor the other two so-called investment 
companies. Mr H was under the impression that he had at least two active investments with 
C and was not told that his dealings with the company were exclusive to the investment that 
required the NDA. Put simply, theres no compelling evidence that Mr H felt prohibited from 
talking about his dealings with C, aside from the details of the particular venture he thought 
he was entering into with the £200,000 payment.
So, even if Mr H hadnt answered the banks questions about exactly what the payment was 
for (because of the NDA), Im not convinced that he wouldnt have shared the background to 
how the payment came about. Indeed, the banks records show that he had previously 
spoken openly about his dealings with the other contacts he had been liaising with in relation 
to the other payments.
I think Mr H would probably have told HSBC that he had been persuaded to invest into 
multiple ventures  which all started with a cold-call. And, despite thinking he had invested 
with C before, when sending the payment on 1 June 2018, it would have been apparent to 
HSBC that Mr H was actually paying a different account in a different country.
Whats more, based on the payees on Mr Hs account, Im persuaded it would have quickly 
become apparent to the bank that Mr H had at times been paying into the exact same 
accounts as he had for the other investment companies. Yet, hed been told that C was a 
separate firm and C had explained to him that the payments themselves were going directly 
to the altogether different entities in which he was investing. Its apparent that Mr H was just 
beginning to start entertaining doubts at this point about the recipient accounts. So, if the 
bank had probed a bit more in this regard, it seems likely that bank staff and/or Mr H would 
have realised something was amiss before it was too late. Further, a quick check as to 
whether C was FCA registered would have unveiled that it wasnt.
Given that large banks often see and prevent all sorts of frauds and scams, Im satisfied it 
would have quickly become evident to HSBC that Mr H was attempting to make a large 
payment in unusual and implausible circumstances  particularly when the payment was 
being made to a separate entitys bank account, rather than through the official channels of 
an investment bank that was FCA registered. I think a banker acting fairly and reasonably 
would have warned their customer about the real risk here of fraud and scams; and that the 
payment he was instructing was in the context of circumstances that very closely match the 
hallmarks of a common scam (i.e. paying money as a result of what was ultimately a cold- 
call offering promising returns, with an unclear understanding of the actual beneficiaries).In my opinion, the NDA also posed an added trigger of something potentially untoward 
about this payment. HSBC says that it cannot reasonably be concluded that Mr H would 
have even revealed the NDAs existence, for the very reason that such an agreement is 
secretive by nature. Still, even if I were to accept HSBCs account of what was most likely 
to have occurred, it still would have had a customer that was requesting a transaction that 
was uncharacteristically large and was reluctant to share any real details about it  to the 
extent that he would probably have come across vague and/or evasive. In other words, 
even if the existence of the NDA hadnt come to light, HSBC would have faced a request for 
a vast international payment instruction which was shrouded in an unreasonable level of 
secrecy.
According to relevant obligations (such as those that Ive already set out above), HSBC 
should, as far as reasonably possible, examine the background and purpose of such a 
transaction that is unusually or unexpectedly large. Bank staff ought to be vigilant in 
applying a risk-based approach to behaviour that might indicate a prohibited activity, such 
as money laundering for example. Bearing in mind the circumstances of this payment when 
it was requested, together with the stringent legal and regulatory obligations that HSBC 
must follow, Mr Hs alleged behaviour would in my opinion have meant the bank ought to 
have conducted further due diligence before proceeding. Indeed, HSBC will probably be 
aware of the FCAs current prosecution of its competitor, NatWest, for its (alleged) failure to 
carry out appropriate due diligence measures. This has been widely reported in the press 
and on the FCA website. It is clear that anti-money-laundering and due diligence 
obligations have been in place for a very long time and cover the period in question here.
In all the circumstances, its arguable that the bank ought to have declined to make the 
payment altogether. After all, if I were to accept what the bank sees as the most probable 
version of events, I cannot ignore that a consumer transferring a large amount of money 
abroad and being uncooperative upon being questioned should reasonably cause a 
banker to be suspicious. At the very least, I think HSBC ought reasonably to have 
recognised that further clarity was needed  and consequently would have paused the 
transaction until adequate information was provided. At which point, the discrepancies and 
signs of potential financial harm that Ive already described would probably have been 
unveiled.
I think Mr H and/or HSBC carrying out further enquiries/research would have quickly 
established that he was in the process of being scammed and consequently the payment 
wouldnt have been sent and his losses would have been avoided. All in all, had HSBC 
gone far enough in line with a banks duty to undertake due diligence and/or treat 
customers fairly, Im persuaded that Mr H would have become incredulous about the scam 
and stopped the payment in its tracks. The fraud would have failed; and Mr H would not 
have lost the £200,000. It follows that if Mr H hadnt made this payment on 1 June 2018, he 
wouldnt have been persuaded to send the subsequent payments to C thereafter  and so 
he wouldnt have lost these funds either.Ive also carefully weighed up whether Mr H can be considered blameworthy in this case 
and should bear some responsibility for the loss. But its clear that at the time of making the 
payment on 1 June 2018, he believed it to be genuine. HSBC has referred to prior 
payments and conversations where it believes Mr H did not act with complete transparency. 
However, even if this were the case (which I think is unproven), I am not requiring the bank 
to refund those relevant transactions. In any event, if he authorised earlier sums below a 
certain threshold in order to circumvent checks and prevent delays, it seems from the 
prevailing evidence that he did this on the express advice of bank staff on the phone  so it 
is not an act or omission which the bank can fairly rely on to show contributory negligence 
or escape liability for its later failure to intervene on clear indicators of a potential scam. Mr 
H is merely the consumer; the bank is the financial professional with due diligence 
requirements.
Its not in question that this was a sophisticated scam where the fraudsters had spent 
many months gaining Mr Hs trust in order to defraud him of his money. Mr H has provided 
copies of some of the graphs and graphics of the funds that the fraudsters said they were 
managing; and he even received money back into his account that he was told was 
drawdowns on his investments, which reinforced the trust he had. All of the circumstances 
manufactured by the scammers made everything appear genuine to him.
So, I dont think he was blameworthy for being taken in by this scam, and I am satisfied that 
he simply did not foresee the type of loss that was unfolding  he just didnt realise what 
was happening. Mr H believed he was acting on the advice of individuals that had dealt 
with him over many months which had led to his investments prospering. He was a genuine 
unwitting victim of devious fraudsters.
Everything considered, I am satisfied HSBC should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr H 
for the loss he suffered for the disputed payments he made on and after 1 June 2018. 
However, I must take into account that Mr Hs loss was mitigated by the money he received 
into his account following this £200,000 being sent. Although relatively small in comparison 
to what he paid out, the amounts that credited his account after 1 June 2018 that were sent 
back by the scammers still reduced Mr Hs overall loss. It follows that I do not intend on 
recommending that HSBC refund whats already been recovered.
So, in conclusion, Im minded to determine that HSBC refund the disputed payments 
made on and after 1 June 2018  with the only reduction being the payments credited to 
Mr Hs account after this date (which Mr H concedes have mitigated his loss). Interest 
should also be added to the respective refund amounts, to compensate Mr H for being 
deprived of the money he lost. I am satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the money 
from Mr H it would have remained in his savings account  so interest should be at that 
rate.
Finally, I also think it is appropriate for HSBC to make a modest award of £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr H has suffered. In reaching that conclusion, I am mindful 
that his loss was ultimately caused by the callous act of a group of fraudsters and it was 
an authorised transaction  but, nevertheless, HSBC could ultimately have prevented 
the payment made on 1 June 2018 and the disputed payments thereafter.
My provisional decision
According to DISP 3.7.4 of the FCA Handbook, where I uphold a complaint concerning 
an act or omission which occurred before 1 April 2019 (as is the case here), I can award 
fair compensation to be paid by a respondent up to £160,000 plus any interest and/or 
costs that I consider appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, 
I may recommend that the respondent pays the balance.For the reasons given above, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and I think 
fair compensation is for HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) to:
refund the disputed payments from 1 June 2018 onwards (minus what has 
already been credited back to Mr H from this date); plus
pay interest on the disputed payment amounts at Mr Hs savings account 
interest rate(s) from the dates of loss to the date of refund (less any tax 
properly deductible); plus
pay Mr H £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Because of the statutory cap on our awards, I can only formally order HSBC to pay Mr H
£160,000 plus the interest as set out above. That would be a binding award if 
confirmed in a final decision and accepted on time by Mr H.
However, because I currently think that fair compensation exceeds the £160,000 
awards cap that applies to the circumstances of this particular case, I intend to 
recommend that HSBC also pays Mr H the balance. This recommendation will not be 
part of my binding determination or award. HSBC doesnt have to do what I 
recommend. And its unlikely Mr H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. Mr H may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept my provisional decision.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman