The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) handled a claim 
made under her Homecare policy following three water leaks from her bathroom.
What happened
Mrs D contacted British Gas when she noticed water stains on her kitchen ceiling. Mrs D 
paid the £50 call out fee and an engineer from D  an agent of British Gas  attended. The 
engineer investigated and identified that the trap had come loose from the bath. He replaced 
and sealed the trap. Mrs D then paid a decorator to repaint her kitchen ceiling.
Six weeks later, new water stains appeared on Mrs Ds kitchen ceiling. Mrs D notified British 
Gas. An engineer from D came to Mrs Ds house. He found that the first engineer had not 
correctly fixed the first leak from the bath and that the pipe work under the bath should have 
been replaced. The second engineer replaced the pipework to fix the leak.
Mrs D complained to British Gas asking it to cover the cost of the redecoration of her kitchen 
ceiling because it had been damaged by the first leak not being fixed properly. British Gas 
referred Mrs D to D, who offered to reinstate Mrs Ds ceiling at no cost to Mrs D. Mrs D 
agreed and told D that she was keen for the reinstatement to happen quickly as she wanted 
to put her home on the market. D arranged for an engineer to visit Mrs D to spray a sealant 
on her kitchen ceiling and then for another engineer to return the following day to paint the 
ceiling.
An engineer arrived to apply the sealant as arranged. But Mrs D says he became unwell 
when he inhaled some of the sealant. Mrs D says the engineer ended up lying on her kitchen 
floor gasping and wheezing. When the engineer recovered, Mrs D says he tipped emulsion 
paint over his van, Mrs Ds car and her driveway. Mrs D says she was left having to get her 
car professionally cleaned and a landscaper to power wash her driveway.
The next engineer arrived the following day, as arranged, to paint the ceiling. But, because 
the ceiling hadnt been sealed properly the day before, the paint couldnt be successfully 
applied.
Mrs D complained again to British Gas. She told them her property was now more damaged 
than it had been to begin with. Shed taken the day off work and the water damage still 
hadnt been fixed. She also told them she would have to postpone putting her property on 
the market because the water damage hadnt been fixed. A lead engineer came to Mrs Ds 
home a few days later to restore the ceiling. A few days after this visit, Mrs D told D that she 
was happy with the restoration of her ceiling.
A week later, there was a third leak from the bathroom. A few days later, British Gas 
contacted Mrs D to follow-up with her about the repairs from the second leak and to check 
that she was happy her ceiling had been fixed. She responded that it hadnt. She told British 
DRN-1952416Gas the leak had reoccurred, the ceiling had been damaged again and she was about to 
lose out on a house she was wishing to purchase because of the effect the water damage 
would have on her ability to market her own property. Mrs D told British Gas she couldnt 
bear the thought of having to deal with D again. Mrs D said British Gas told her it would need 
to send D out again but would ensure her bathroom was watertight and it would fix her 
ceiling.
A week later an engineer inspected the damage and investigated the third leak. The 
engineer identified the leak was not coming from the bath, but from the wash basin in the 
bathroom.
Mrs D contacted British Gas about repairs following the third leak. British Gas told Mrs D it 
wasnt liable for the damage caused by the third leak because it was from the wash basin 
and not the bath. Mrs D says British Gas told her that when the first engineer asked 
what was above the staining, Mrs D said the bath - so the engineer only inspected the bath. 
Mrs D says she also pointed out to the engineer that the areas of staining were also below 
the wash basin.
A few days later, Mrs D received a complaint acknowledgement letter. Mrs D says she also 
received an invoice for the £50 call out fee for the wash basin leak, which she says British 
Gas agreed to waive after she complained. As well as complaining about the invoice, Mrs D 
says she also told British Gas it was down to the engineer to identify where the leak was 
coming from - not her - as she isnt a qualified plumber. Mrs D says she told British Gas how 
distressed the ongoing issues were making her.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us. She said it had been quite some time since shed 
complained to British Gas about her claim for the restoration of her ceiling following the third 
leak and shed not been contacted about an outcome. Mrs D said shed eventually had the 
ceiling repaired herself. Mrs D told us her physical and mental health had suffered  
especially her asthma  and shed also been unable to put her property on the market as 
shed planned because of British Gas. Mrs D told us she felt shed been mis-sold her policy 
as British Gas told her it was her responsibility to identify the source of a leak so that it could 
fix it, when this should be the responsibility of British Gas.
Mrs D told us she wanted her premiums returned, reimbursement for the decorating work 
and compensation for the stress and the effect on her asthma. She also wanted to be 
compensated for the annual leave she and her husband had lost, but that she was 
prepared to forgo compensation for the spillage of paint on her driveway and her car.
After the complaint was brought to us, British Gas provided Mrs D with a response to her 
complaint. It apologised that it hadnt sent her a final response sooner. It said it didnt agree 
it was responsible for the restoration of the water damage from the basin leak. It said it 
wouldnt refund Mrs Ds premiums as it didnt agree her policy had been mis-sold because it 
had repaired the leaks. It offered Mrs D £200 compensation for the inconvenience to her and 
her husband, for them having to take time off work, for the delays in resolution and for the 
overall impact on Mrs D.
Mrs D told British Gas that £200 wasnt enough to compensate her for the damage to her 
property, her financial detriment and resultant mental health issues. It also wasnt enough for 
the lost time from work, the delay in handling her complaint, or British Gas ignorance of the 
vulnerable position it had put her in.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ds complaint. He felt that British Gas didnt need to do 
anything further and that £200 compensation was reasonable. He said that the 
consequential damage from the second leak  which happened because British Gas hadnt properly fixed the first leak - had been repaired satisfactorily by British Gas. He also felt it 
reasonable for an engineer not to check all the fittings in a bathroom if there was an obvious 
leak in one place.
Our investigator said that Mrs Ds policy didnt cover damage caused by water leaks. And 
that the leak from the basin was a different leak, unrelated to the leaks from the bath. So he 
felt British Gas wasnt responsible for repairing the water damage from the basin leak. He 
also didnt think Mrs Ds premiums should be returned because British Gas had fixed the 
leaks from the bath and the basin in line with the policys terms.
Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators view. She felt that because that the water damage 
on the kitchen ceiling was also underneath the toilet and basin, the first engineer should 
have checked more than just the bath.
The complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.  
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Mrs Ds complaint in part by 
instructing British Gas to pay Mrs D a further £200 compensation in addition to the £200 it 
had already offered her. 
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
It is not in dispute that D, on behalf of British Gas, did not properly fix the first leak from Mrs 
Ds bath, which led to a second leak. It is also not in dispute that the second leak damaged 
redecoration Mrs D had paid for. British Gas fixed Mrs Ds bath following the second leak 
and restored her ceiling, which is what Id have expected it to do here. But I think Mrs D 
should be awarded compensation for the trouble and upset she suffered because of the 
second leak as this was caused by British Gas not fixing the first leak properly.
British Gas fixed the damage to Mrs Cs redecorated ceiling following the second leak. But 
fixing the damage did not go as smoothly for Mrs D as I think it should have. Mrs Ds ceiling 
hadnt been prepared properly by the first engineer and wasnt ready for painting by a 
second engineer the next day. Mrs D had already taken a day off work, and then needed to 
accommodate another visit from a third engineer days later. None of which shed have 
needed to do if British Gas had fixed the first leak properly the first time. Mrs D says she is 
prepared for forgo compensation for the cost of cleaning her driveway and car. But Mrs D 
should be compensated for the trouble and upset caused by British Gas attempts to restore 
her ceiling following its failure to fix the first leak from her bath.
British Gas says that the wash basin leak is a different leak to those from the bath and so 
should be treated as a separate incident and as a different claim. Mrs Ds policy 
documentation says in the General exclusions section of the HomeCare Range Terms and 
Conditions policy booklet under the Any other loss or damage sub-heading:
"Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture or 
fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we caused 
it. For example damage caused by water leaksSo if the leak to the wash basin is a different and unrelated leak, British Gas would not be 
responsible for putting right the water damage caused by it. But Mrs D feels because the 
leak to her basin wasnt identified initially by British Gas, it should pay for the restoration of 
her ceiling following the basin leak.
Mrs D told us that the staining on the ceiling was underneath the bath and that the stains 
also extended across the ceiling towards the wash basin and the toilet. I have reviewed the 
photographs Mrs D provided of the water staining from the first leak and I can see that the 
stains do extend across her kitchen ceiling. But, given that escaped water travels, I dont it 
think its unreasonable for the first engineer to assume from the staining that there was only 
one leak. And after deciding that the leak was coming from the bath, I dont think its 
unreasonable that he didnt then check that the rest of the bathroom fixtures werent also 
leaking. So I dont think British Gas have done anything wrong by not checking for other 
leaks. Also, I dont think its unreasonable for British Gas to view the basin leak as a different 
leak and a separate claim as it was coming from a different fixture to the bath. I am satisfied 
then that British Gas has acted in line with the terms of the policy by not restoring the 
damage to Mrs Ds kitchen caused by the basin leak.
Mrs D told us that she felt her policy had been mis-sold because British Gas told her she 
was responsible for diagnosing the source of the leaks. But ultimately British Gas did 
diagnose and repair all three leaks, which it what it is supposed to do under the terms of Mrs 
Ds policy. So I dont think Mrs Ds policy was mis-sold. Because of this, and because Mrs D 
has received benefits from the policy by having her leaks fixed, I dont think its fair for British 
Gas to return Mrs Ds premiums.
Mrs D says the compensation isnt enough when taking into account the time she and her 
husband had to take off work. Id expect that a consumer would need to take some time off 
work to deal with repairs under a home emergency policy. But Mrs D needed to take time off 
because of British Gas errors stemming from the first leak from the bath. So I think Mrs D 
should be compensated for this as shed not have needed to take the time off if the leak had 
been fixed properly the first time. But, I dont think British Gas should compensate Mrs D for 
Mr D needing to take time off work because of the leak from the basin. As discussed above, 
this is a second leak, unrelated to the leak from the bath, which British Gas were not the 
cause of.
It is not in dispute that, following Mrs Ds complaint to British Gas about the repairs to the 
water damage from the basin leak, British Gas didnt respond as quickly as it could have. 
The delay in finding out whether British Gas would restore the water damage would have 
caused Mrs D trouble and upset, so I think its reasonable that shes compensated for this.
The wash basin is a separate incident and so a different claim, so its fair that  aside from 
the delay mentioned above - British Gas only compensates Mrs D for trouble and upset 
relating to events stemming from its failure to fix the first leak to Mrs Ds bath. British Gas 
could have charged Mrs D a £50 call out fee for the basin leak under the policys terms, but it 
waived this. But I dont think waiving the fee and £200 is enough compensation for the extent 
of Mrs Ds trouble and upset. So Im minded that British Gas should pay Mrs D a further 
£200 compensation for her trouble and upset. The total compensation paid should be £400.
British Gas and Mrs D have both accepted my provisional decision. Neither party has 
provided any additional information or comments. Mrs D asked whether - if British Gas had 
any objections to the provisional decision - shed be able to see the final decision before its 
published, but British Gas hasnt provided any objections.  
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, as well as the responses of both parties 
to my provisional decision. Given that both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I 
wont be departing from my provisional findings. I have decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint 
in part. British Gas should pay Mrs D a further £200 compensation for her trouble and upset 
in addition to the £200 it has already offered her. The total compensation to Mrs D should be 
£400. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ds complaint in part. I instruct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs D a 
further £200 compensation in addition to the £200 it has already offered her. If it hasnt done 
so already, British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mrs D the £200 compensation it has 
already offered Mrs D at the same time it pays her the further £200.  
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.  
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman