DRN-3282344
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was given misleading information by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited regarding shares he held. 
He says that based on that information he decided not to sell shares and has consequently 
suffered a financial loss. To put things right, Mr K would like compensation for losses 
claimed.    
What happened
Mr K said that he called the business on 3 March 2021 and was told/led to believe that hed 
receive cash/shares due to the forthcoming action where Harbour Energy was taking over 
the Premier Oil stock he held. The call handler also confirmed that the share was trading, but 
it was worth checking with Premier Oil to confirm the position. There was some confusion 
about whether or not the shares were/would be suspended. 
Mr K hadnt received any information directly from the business about this, so asked it to 
send him the relevant correspondence which it agreed to do. 
Mr K called the business back on 4 March 2021, as he hadnt received an email and/or 
attachment, as promised. The call handler on that occasion suggest that he had, but 
probably couldnt find the document because he was searching on the mobile app at the 
time. 
The call recording shows that Mr K was initially told that if he did nothing, hed receive a 
mixture of cash and shares to the value of his Premier Oil share following the takeover. 
When he asked about the shares, and whether he could buy more, the handler said shed 
check with the corporate actions team. She then confirmed that Mr K appeared to be holding 
Premier Oil ordinary shares, and that the option to buy more was in relation to a slightly 
different corporate action  so there wouldnt be an option to buy anymore, and it looked like 
misinformation had been sent. 
I note that to save Mr K from holding on, the agent offered a call back, but this didnt happen. 
Mr K said the value of his shares were £37,000 and he wanted to know if on 29 March 2021 
when Harbour Energy come in, if hed receive the value of his shares, plus some shares. 
The template letter (sent in by Mr K) headed Your Premier Oil 6.5% 2021 Notes states: If 
you do nothing youll receive a mixture of cash and Harbour Energy shares in place of your 
6.5% 2021 Notes.
Based on this information, Mr K says he took no action, and as consequence hes lost out 
financially because the share price of his stock has fallen. 
The business accepts that it sent Mr K the wrong information, however it doesnt accept that 
it is responsible for any losses claimed. It maintains that responsibility to act was always with 
Mr K. However, it apologised for its error and offered Mr K £100 compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mr K was operating an execution only account with the business, he was responsible 
for his own decision and that of any rights issues. The business didnt provide any 
advice, it merely carried out his instructions. 
Under section A18 of the terms and conditions, the business made clear the 
following:
oIt is your responsibility to identify any upcoming Corporate Actions before 
purchasing an investment as we will not provide you with any notification at 
the time you place your purchase. For Funds and ETFs you should refer to 
the relevant prospectus. For listed securities you should refer to any relevant 
announcements
It appears Mr K decided to retain his shares in question because he thought he was 
going to receive additional cash and/or shares. But the investigator couldnt say that 
hes suffered a loss by not selling his shares, because any profit or loss would only 
be realised upon sale, and Mr K still holds his shares. 
Ultimately, the onus was on Mr K to make sure that he was eligible for the options 
relating to the shares. In this instance he ought reasonably to have been aware that 
he wasnt eligible for the cash and/or shares relating to the 6.5% 2021 Notes stock. 
In the circumstances, the business should pay Mr K £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by sending him information that related to a 
different stock.  
The business accepted the investigators view and is willing to increase its award to £200. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said he was losing thousands and thousands of pounds as a result of the 
business misleading him. So, he doesnt understand why the investigator has asked for 
£200. He questions what that can do against £20k worth of losses? Mr K wouldve taken the 
business to court if it wasnt so expensive. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr K says, Im unable to safely 
say that he is entitled to any losses/potential losses claimed  in other words, I dont think 
the business is responsible for any losses claimed. 
However, on balance I think £200 compensation recommended by the investigator for the 
error is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ks strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr K wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr K, and the busines, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Theres no dispute that Mr K was sent information that didnt relate to his specific stock. 
Notwithstanding the business error, I think he was mistaken as to the nature of that 
document and what it related to. Clearly it related to a different stock to the one held by him, 
albeit with a similar name  but I dont think Mr K quite grasped that aspect, which is 
probably why he took no action. 
Its possible that in the call dated 3 March 2021 Mr K was led to believe that hed be entitled 
to some shares and/or cash, but I note that no guarantees were given, and the handler 
wasnt too sure about what was happening. 
I note Mr K asked for some correspondence, presumably to look into matters himself and 
make up his own mind. Its at this stage, Mr K was sent the document headed Your Premier 
Oil 6.5% 2021 Notes
But given the nature of the documentation, notwithstanding his earlier conversation with the 
business, I think Mr K ought reasonably to have known that the information received wasnt 
in relation to his own stock. If there was any confusion, he ought reasonably to have sought 
clarification at this stage, because the information didnt relate to his stock. 
In any case, Im aware that this is an execution only service, and that it was ultimately up to 
Mr K to decide what to do and what action was suitable for him  that was broadly the basis 
upon which the initial call was ended. In other words, Mr K would look through the 
documentation and decide what to do. 
In the circumstances Im satisfied that it was the business role to simply carry out his 
instructions and not to advise. In other words, notwithstanding the businesss error, it was 
still Mr Ks responsibility  having conducted his own due diligence and research  to confirm 
whether or not he was eligible for the options relating to his specific shares. 
Based on what Ive seen, I cant say that the information of itself was inaccurate or false, it 
just didnt relate to Mr Ks investment. Im mindful that the documentation provided made 
clear that the information was in relation to Premier Oil 6.5% 2021 Notes, which was correct 
and accurate  not Premier Oil Ordinary shares, which Mr K held and was a different stock. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely say that Mr K is eligible for the cash 
and/or shares relating to the 6.5% 2021 Notes stock  this isnt something that hes entitled 
to.
In the circumstances, and on balance, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask the business to 
compensate him for losses claimed. The £200 compensation recommended by the 
investigator is broadly fair and reasonable. In my opinion is broadly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by Mr K.  I appreciate Mr K will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give him 
what he wants. 
Putting things right
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mr K £200 compensation if it 
hasnt done so already. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mr K compensation as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman