DRN-4144774
The complaint
Mr R complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) were unresponsive 
when he experienced financial difficulties.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr R had with his business and the mental health 
issues he experienced as a result. It seems things are getting better for him and I very much 
hope that trend continues.
Ive reviewed Mr Rs complaint now, and I know it will disappoint him, but Im afraid I dont 
think BMWFS have been unreasonable here and Im not asking them to take any action.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Mr R complained to BMWFS in November 2022. He explained that his business had been 
liquidated and that hed experienced a mental breakdown. He said that with the help of a 
debt charity hed been able to set up payment arrangements with all of his creditors except 
BMWFS, who he said had been unresponsive.
Our investigator set out the chronology of events in some detail in her View produced in 
April this year. I wont repeat the details here, but having considered that, and the evidence 
on file, I dont think BMWFS were unresponsive. 
I can see Mr R sent BMWFS letters and emailed them, but I can also see that throughout 
May, June, July, and August 2022, BMWFS attempted to contact Mr R by phone, email, and 
through letters. It would be unfair to hold them accountable for unreliable post service and 
whilst I understand Mr R may have thought the emails were advertising, he would also have 
been aware that he owed a debt to BMWFS and would surely have been alive to the fact 
they would be trying to get in touch with him; especially as he was concerned about their 
unresponsiveness.
Im persuaded that BMWFS tried to communicate with Mr R over a reasonable period of time 
before terminating his agreement and I dont therefore think they were unreasonable to do 
so or need to take any action in that regard.
Mr R has suggested that BMWFS didnt consider his vulnerability and hes provided a copy 
of the Financial Conduct Authorities guidelines for fair treatment of vulnerable customers. 
This Service usually cant consider a complaint until the business has considered it. I cant 
see that BMWFS were asked to consider that issue when Mr R raised his complaint to them. 
Mr R has emailed some excerpts from his complaint file, but Im not persuaded they raised 
the issue of whether Mr Rs vulnerability had been considered properly either. BMWFSs 
final response on the complaint didnt consider those issues. I think, Mr R will need to raise 
another complaint with BMWFS to allow them to respond to his concerns before this Service 
can properly consider any escalation of the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman