DRN-2979251
The complaint
Mr V complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc transferred money from his account without his 
permission.
What happened
Mr V says he called Sainsburys in January 2021 about a new account. He says he then 
called it back to fund the new account but discovered Sainsburys had transferred £20,000 
from a different account without his permission. Mr V says Sainsburys ought to pay more 
compensation than its offered.
Sainsburys says it has apologised for the mistake and has offered to either pay £50 
compensation or pay backdated interest. It says when Mr V called it, he asked to fund the 
account by transferring the £20,000 from his other account. But it accepts it could have been 
clearer in explaining it needed to make checks first.
Mr V brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Sainsburys had made an 
appropriate compensation offer. The investigator listened to the call between the parties and 
thought Mr V wanted the new account funded by £20,000 which was in his other Sainsburys 
account, but accepted Mr V thought that couldnt be achieved that day.
Mr V doesnt accept that view and maintains the compensation isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Sainsburys has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. I appreciate Mr V will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened carefully to the call between the parties. Im satisfied Mr V wished to open a 
joint account and fund it with £20,000 from his other Sainsburys account. Im also satisfied 
that the call ended with Sainsburys telling Mr V that further checks needed to be carried out. 
So, I accept that Sainsburys ought to have been clearer and explained to Mr V that the 
account may have been opened and funded as he wished.
I have to consider the impact that mistake had on Mr V. And Im satisfied that Sainsburys 
carried out Mr Vs instructions by opening the account and funding it with the £20,000. I dont 
think Mr V suffered any financial loss or that there was any real impact caused by what took 
place. In those circumstances, whilst I accept Mr V may have been surprised the money had 
been transferred, I dont think what took place justifies any further compensation.
I think Sainsburys offer to pay £50 compensation or backdate interest fair and reasonable 
and will leave it to Mr V to decide if he wishes to accept either of those offers. I dont think 
Sainsburys has been as clear as it could have in explaining what its compensation offer is 
and can see that it also says it will backdate interest as an alternative. I appreciate it says it 
will pay £50 compensation if Mr V decides to transfer the money back to the original 
account, but I think it likely that he would wish to keep the money in the new account.
In those circumstances I make clear that I think the £50 compensation should be paid 
regardless of what Mr V decides to do with the money, if he wishes to accept this decision. 
And of course, Sainsburys alternative offer of the backdating of interest remains open if Mr 
V wishes to accept that in place of the compensation but I appreciate such an offer is likely 
to be far less than the compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of £50 or to backdate interest. Mr Vs acceptance of either offer would be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman