DRN-1884440
 
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr M complain that Grosvenor Wealth Management Limited charged them an 
excessive amount to review their pensions. They say that Grosvenor didnt provide them 
with the service they were expecting, or meet their needs, and their questions werent 
answered.
What happened
Mrs H attended a seminar run by Grosvenor in November 2018. As Mrs H was nearing 
retirement, she was considering her retirement options. Grosvenor then invited Mrs H to a 
free meeting to discuss her situation. Mrs H attended this on 10 December 2018, and it was 
agreed that Grosvenor would produce a Life Plan for both Mrs H and Mr M. 
On 11 December 2018, Mrs H and Mr M signed a client agreement agreeing to pay 
Grosvenor for the Life Plan. The cost was £750 plus VAT, £900 in total. 
In January 2019, Mrs H asked Grosvenor to delay their next meeting, until around March 
2019, due to work commitments. In April 2019, Grosvenor took further information about Mrs 
Hs and Mr Ms personal circumstances at a meeting.
Grosvenors notes show that Mrs H was two years from retirement (her expected retirement 
age was aged 60). She had an occupational pension and an additional voluntary contribution 
(AVC) pension scheme. Mr M was one year from retirement (also at aged 60), however he 
had cut down his working hours already due to ill health. Mr M had three personal pensions. 
They also had savings and other investments, including rental properties, an overseas 
holiday home, Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs), bonds and shares. Mrs H and Mr M 
assessed themselves as being risk adverse. They told Grosvenor that in retirement they 
wanted a joint income of £20,000 per annum from their pensions.
Grosvenor issued its first version of the Life Plan to Mrs H and Mr M in early July 2019. The 
Plan was updated twice after that, after contact with Mrs H and Mr M. A final version was 
sent on 28 August 2019.
Grosvenor asked Mrs H and Mr M for their response to the Plan in early September 2019. 
On 26 September 2019, the adviser asked whether Grosvenor should close its file, because 
they didnt require any additional work.
Mr M wrote to Grosvenor on 26 September 2019 to explain that he was disappointed with 
what theyd received. He made the following points:
 Grosvenor had not provided the service expected, it had not explained its 
recommendations;
 he didnt know how Grosvenor could justify the fee;
 the report contained too many charts which were meaningless; and Grosvenor had used too much jargon. 
Grosvenor said that it had provided the service that was agreed. It did accept that it was a 
long process, but said this was due to delays in receiving information from Mrs H and Mr M, 
and that it should have done better keeping the review on track. Grosvenor said it had spent 
a lot of time providing Mrs H and Mr M with information, and that it was not given the 
opportunity to explain its findings as this complaint was made instead. 
Mrs H and Mr M think they should get a full refund of the £900 they paid Grosvenor. 
Grosvenor dont agree. Grosvenor say that the time and effort its pent on the Plan cost the 
company more than the fees paid.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs H and Mr M brought their complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator looked into it and said the issue to determine was whether Grosvenor had 
supplied the service that Mrs H and Mr M requested and paid for. In summary, our 
adjudicator took the view that it had, and Mrs Hs and Mr Ms complaint should not be 
upheld.
The adjudicator said having looked closely at the customer agreement that was completed 
and signed on 11 December 2018, she felt it showed that the work Grosvenor had agreed to 
do for the amount paid was to produce an aid for Mrs H and Mr M to understand their current 
retirement provisions.
Mrs H and Mr M said they expected Grosvenor to provide them with specific advice about 
the use of their pension, which included considering the tax implications, especially for    Mrs 
H. They say this was discussed during their meetings with the adviser. Our adjudicator 
concluded that she couldnt say what was discussed, but based on the available evidence, 
including the documents from the time, she couldnt see from the client agreement that it 
was agreed from the outset that the information Mrs H and Mr M were expecting would be 
provided. She concluded that the written information didnt appear to be misleading about 
what was going to be provided. 
Our adjudicator said that she accepted that this may have been one of the areas that Mrs H 
and Mr M felt they needed advice on, but she couldnt see that Grosvenor had agreed to 
provide this for the fee charged. She noted that the Life Plan did not provide any advice. And 
that Grosvenor had said said the Life Plan was an initial step in the process, to set out the 
customers position and no recommendations are made at this point.
Further, she said that Mrs H and Mr M had not raised their concerns about the service 
provided until the third draft of the Life Plan was sent to them. She said although they had 
raised a few questions on earlier drafts, they hadnt given Grosvenor any earlier indication 
that they were unhappy, or that the information provided was not what they were expecting. 
She took from this that Grosvenor would not have been in a position to vary their services 
earlier, to provide Mrs H and Mr M with what they were expecting.
In relation to Mrs Hs and Mr Ms complaint about the charts, she didnt feel it was this 
services role to comment on standard charts as a way of expressing information. She said 
the charts shouldve been provided with an explanation, but in Mrs Hs and Mr Ms situation, 
she thought the reason why this information was not fully provided was because the 
customer relationship broke down before the plan was discussed in full. Having read the 
pensions report that was sent after the complaint was brought to this service, she considered 
that Grosvenor had provided the information it said it would.The adjudicator said that she had looked at the errors Mrs H and Mr M pointed out in the 
charts. She said mistakes can happen, and she was not persuaded that as a result of these 
mistakes, it could be said that Grosvenor had not provided the service agreed.
So far as any misunderstanding regarding Grosvenor closing its file, Mrs H told Grosvenor 
she wasnt looking to move any of her ISAs or pensions. So, our adjudicator thought this 
meant Grosvenor wouldnt be providing any additional services after the Life Plan. She said 
Grosvenor couldve explained this better to Mrs H and Mr M at the time. She concluded that 
the pension report was a component of the Life plan and included in the fee paid. She noted 
Mrs H and Mr M didnt initially receive this, but Grosvenor had offered to post this out. She 
thought Grosvenor should send this to Mrs H and Mr M.
Overall, our adjudicator concluded that Grosvenor did provide Mrs H and Mr M with a 
service, and it wouldnt be fair to expect this to be done for free. There was nothing 
misleading in the paperwork to suggest that Mrs H and Mr M would be getting anything more 
for the fee they paid, and because Grosvenor was not alerted to a possible problem sooner, 
she didnt think Grosvenor could have done anything different in the circumstances.
Mrs H and Mr M didn't agree with the adjudicator's view and asked for their complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. They said, in summary:
their main complaint was that they had not received the pensions report, all they 
received were charts that were not asked for or clear;
the adviser lost interest when they said they were not going to cash in their ISAs and 
pay further fees; and
it would not benefit them now to receive the pensions report as the relationship 
had broken down and there would be things to discuss.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator and for much the 
same reasons. I am therefore not upholding Mrs H and Mr Ms complaint.
Ive looked at whether Grosvenor provided Mrs H and Mr M with the service it said it would, 
for the fee they agreed to pay. Also, Ive looked to see whether it was made reasonably clear 
to Mrs H and Mr M what they had paid for, and could reasonably expect to receive for the 
fee they'd paid.
There were a number of meetings between Mrs H and Mr M and the adviser. Like our 
adjudicator, I cant know what was discussed at those. So, Ive looked carefully at the 
paperwork that was signed and given to Mrs H and Mr M at the time, to work out what was 
likely agreed between the parties.
I can see on the client agreement that Grosvenor said charges were agreed on a fixed fee 
basis and for a simple Life Plan the price range was £500-£1500 and for a complex Life Plan 
the fee was between £1500 to £3000. It said the fees consisted of two components Review 
and Advice and Implementation.
The client agreement said this about Mrs H and Mr Ms fee:
Initial service Review and Advise 
Details of agreed fee
To prepare a life plan to aid in understanding options in retirement £750 including VAT £900
This has been arrived at based broadly on an estimate of the time involved and any ancillary 
costs. Please note this is intended to be a contribution towards the cost of the initial work 
rather than to recover all our costs of the work involved.
I can see under that Implementation it said this was Not applicable at this stage. 
It seems, therefore, that the fee Mrs H and Mr M paid was at the lower end for a Life Plan, 
which might suggest that this was a simple review. Theres no real definition of what a Life 
Plan is, except in Mrs H and Mr Hs case, to it being referred to as an aid in understanding 
options in retirement. 
I can see from the paperwork supplied by Grosvenor, including the pensions report that 
Grosvenor sent Mrs H and Mr M after we started looking into this complaint, that Grosvenor 
obtained a fair amount of background detail about Mrs H and Mr Ms pension arrangements. 
I can see it wrote to all three providers relating to Mr Ms pension schemes and that it 
collated details about Mrs Hs five pension schemes, which consisted of two defined benefit 
schemes, an AVC scheme, a personal pension scheme and a small pension pot. It also 
collated the information about their other investments. I can see that Grosvenor told Mrs H 
and Mr M, that based on this information, their financial objective of £20,000 in joint pension 
income was met and in the main their income was more than sufficient to cover their 
expenses in retirement. The report explained there was no need to draw upon their money 
purchase benefits in retirement, beyond Mr Ms annuity income. Grosvenor presented some 
options in terms of how they may want to draw these pension benefits going forward. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Grosvenor completed the work it agreed to, and 
at the fee agreed. I cant see from the paperwork that Grosvenor misled Mrs H or Mr M into 
believing that they were going to get more than they received or the specific advice they 
seemed to think they had paid for. I cant see that the fee was excessive, given the charging 
structure outlined in the credit agreement and the time Grosvenor said it had taken to 
complete the work. Further, Mrs H and Mr M were clearly told what the fee was at the outset, 
and agreed to pay it. Grosvenor obviously did a fair amount of work to produce the Life Plan 
and pension report, and therefore it would not be fair or reasonable to expect it to refund the 
fee Mrs H and Mr M paid for these services.
Further, as our adjudicator pointed out, Mrs H and Mr M didnt complain to Grosvenor until 
after it issued the third iteration of the Life Plan. So, Grosvenor wasnt given the opportunity 
to clarify or manage Mrs H's and Mr M's expectations sooner and prior to more work being 
done. 
The charts provided are not, in my view, meaningless. Also, had the relationship not broken 
down, I think it likely that Grosvenor wouldve helped Mrs H and Mr M to understand these 
better. I say this because I can see from earlier correspondence that Grosvenor responded 
and clarified things in response to Mrs H and Mr Ms questions. 
It seems it took longer for Grosvenor to finalise the Life Plan and pensions report. But, I cant 
fairly hold it responsible for these delays. I can see that it was waiting for information from 
Mrs H and Mr M. Further, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Grosvenor to refund  Mrs 
H and Mr M the fee paid because of some minor mistakes made in the presentation of the 
information.
Finally, after Mrs H and Mr M failed to respond to the adviser's request for feedback on the 
Plan, whilst the adviser might have explained more clearly why he was asking whether his 
file should be closed, I dont see this shortcoming reasonably justifies a reduction in full or 
part in the fee payable.
Overall, and to summarise, I consider that Grosvenor provided Mrs H and Mr M with 
information in line with what was agreed in the client agreement and at the fee agreed. It 
may have taken longer to provide this than usual, but I dont think Grosvenor can reasonably 
be held responsible for that delay. I cant see that Grosvenor misled Mrs H or  Mr M in any 
way as to what would be provided for the agreed fee. So, it follows that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs H and Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman