DRN-3352349
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling and settlement of her claim 
under her Homecare home emergency policy.
What happened
Ms C was having problems with her boiler system and BG sent out a contractor to resolve 
this. But, after the visit a leak developed and caused damage to Ms Cs property. Ms C 
made further contact with BG and said it agreed to repair the leak and to deal with the 
damage it had caused to her home. Unfortunately, due to some personal circumstances 
Ms C had to postpone the work for a period and went back to BG several months later to 
conclude the outstanding issues.
The contractor who caused the damage said it agreed to deal with some repairs. Due to the 
leak causing an increase to the water bill BG agreed a refund of £21 to Ms C and for the 
distress and inconvenience it offered £100 as compensation. When the work was eventually 
done Ms C was unhappy with the repairs and said that other repairs remained outstanding. 
As agreement couldnt be reached Ms C brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said BG had acted reasonably throughout, 
had done more work than originally agreed, and had offered fair compensation.
Ms C didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed on to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially when a contractor went to do the repairs Ms C requested other further repairs be 
done at the same time. Ms C said there was still a problem with moisture in the property and 
said the extra work included the front door, door frames, a bathroom wall and window sill 
cracks. The contractor didnt accept this, so at this point BG stepped in. It appointed its own 
contractor to take over from the contractor who had originally caused the leak while working 
on BGs behalf. 
BGs new contractor reviewed the damage and after this BG offered Ms C £350 to get the 
work completed herself. But Ms C declined this as she wanted BG to do the repairs. Once 
the work had been agreed the new contractor turned up to do the repairs. At this point Ms C 
raised repairs that werent included within the schedule of works. BG agreed to repair the 
window frames as a gesture of goodwill even though it didnt think this was linked to the 
original leak. 
I know Ms C was unhappy that the contractor had to check in with his employer before doing 
any extra work. But I accept that as the work wasnt agreed or documented in advance it 
was reasonable to check in the circumstances. Also, as it wasnt all agreed beforehand, I 
think the timescale for completing the work was reasonable. The photo evidence Ive seen 
shows the required work was carried out. I dont think it shows any issues with the standard 
of the work done either. Its clear that extra work was carried out as requested and some 
areas that BG didnt want to deal with were also done. So, I think that BG has acted fairly 
and reasonably.
In relation to the washer/dryer door issue the evidence confirming that this was damaged by 
a third party is persuasive. So, I accept what BG said here, I dont think BG needs to take 
further action on this point.
Ms C said theres now a paint colour difference between the different bathrooms, but as the 
paints were agreed in advance, I dont think BG can be expected to do more here than it 
already has.
Ms C raised other issues throughout the complaint. Damp inside a wardrobe, flooding under 
the washer/dryer, and a loft hatch problem to name just a few. But I must stress that these 
issues would need to be dealt with directly with BG.
Theres no doubt that Ms C found the whole experience stressful. Its clear that there were 
communication issues and BG could have provided a better service from the outset. But it 
did make offers, do extra work and award £100 compensation which in the circumstances of 
this case I think was fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman