DRN-4407193
The complaint
Mr H complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined his motor insurance
policy claim.
What happened
Mr H was unhappy when his car was stolen and Admiral declined his claim for its theft.
Admiral said hed misrepresented to them because he hadnt told them that his named driver
Ms A had a conviction for driving without insurance (DWI) and that the other named driver
Mrs H had a speeding conviction. Admiral said that if they had known about Ms As DWI
conviction, they wouldnt have insured him at all.
They said hed made a reckless or deliberate qualifying misrepresentation about Ms As
conviction. So they avoided his policy, meaning they treated it as if it didnt exist, from its
renewal date. They also retained the premiums hed paid.
Mr H said Admiral already knew that Ms A had been stopped by the police for driving without
insurance, so he didnt think he had to disclose it. Admiral at first denied knowing that Ms A
had been stopped for DWI, but later admitted that they had known, and offered Mr H £150 in
compensation for that.
Mr H said that Admiral didnt compensate him enough for the distress and inconvenience
hed experienced as result of them declining his theft claim and avoiding his policy. He said
as follows. He couldnt get a policy in his own name, only as a named driver, and not for the
same size car. His premiums were much higher, and hed incurred costs when he was
without a car. He worked in the finance industry and Admiral had damaged his reputation.
He wanted Admiral to clear all insurance databases to show that his insurance had never
been cancelled or avoided and hed done nothing wrong. He brought his complaint to us via
his solicitors and wanted Admiral to reimburse his solicitors fees of about £8,000.
The investigator recommended that Mr Hs complaint be upheld. She considered that
Admiral should honour Mr Hs theft claim, with a proportionate settlement due to Mrs Hs
speeding fine. She correctly explained that we dont award compensation for legal fees
because we dont think its necessary for consumers to use a solicitor and it was Mr Hs
choice to do that. She thought that Admiral should pay him compensation for his loss of use
of his car and compensate him £2,500 for his distress and inconvenience. Admiral didnt
agree with the level of compensation and so I was asked to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 September 2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows :
 Qualifying misrepresentation
As Admiral said Mr H had made a qualifying misrepresentation about Ms As conviction, Ive
looked at the relevant law, which is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This law says a consumer needs to take reasonable
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out or renewing an insurance policy.
It says if a consumer doesnt do this, the insurer can take certain actions as long as the
misrepresentation is a qualifying one.
Ive looked into whether I think Mr H took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
about Ms As conviction, whether the misrepresentation was qualifying and whether the
action Admiral took was in line with CIDRA.
Reasonable care
CIDRA says a consumer needs to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to
an insurer. Admiral said Mr H didnt take that reasonable care when he renewed his policy in
2020. They said their agent asked if he was happy with the information on his policy being
accurate, and he agreed. And he didnt then tell them that the policy documents he sent
them were inaccurate, because they didnt include the convictions for Ms A and Mrs H.
Mr H accepted that he hadnt disclosed Mrs Hs speeding conviction. He said this was due to
miscommunication between himself and Mrs H.
Mr H said he didnt think he had to disclose Ms As conviction because he thought Admiral
already knew about it. He said as follows. Ms A was stopped by the police for DWI in
October 2019 because Mr H said that unknown to him, Admiral had failed to renew his
policy. Mr H said this was the first he heard of it. Mr H immediately took out a new policy with
Admiral by the roadside so that Ms A could carry on driving because the police would not let
her drive otherwise. Ms A was later charged and convicted for DWI. Admiral said Mr H didnt
disclose that conviction on the policys renewal.
Mr H claimed that it was wrong of Admiral not to automatically renew his policy in 2019 and
said that if Admiral had automatically renewed it, Ms A wouldnt have had the conviction at
all. He said he didnt receive Admirals letters offering to renew his policy on payment of the
premium and warning him that it would expire if he didnt. This was because he was not in
the UK in August 2019 and when he did return in September, those letters werent waiting 
for him either.
Mr H explained that he is often overseas and therefore organised his insurance with Admiral
so that it would always auto renew, and hed receive emails about his policy, because he
may not be at his UK residence to receive letters. His contact preference was email and
Admiral always contacted him that way except in August 2019. Mr H said that it was
Admirals fault that the policy was cancelled because Admiral didnt contact him by email as
he had always requested and as Admiral had done since 2012 when he first insured with
them. He said hed deliberately set it up to auto renew so that he wouldnt have to remember
to renew it.
Mr Hs policy information going back to about 2012 does show that Admiral auto renewed his
policy every year. And Admirals system notes show Mr Hs communication preference as
emails. So it seems that Admiral had removed the auto renewal on his policy and also
changed their method of contacting him from email to letter, both without telling him. Admiral
couldnt provide any persuasive evidence that Mr H had asked them to do that, or that they
had told him about the change. So I think that this was unfair and that their change from Mr
Hs long-term preference for email communication, to letters in August/September 2019, was
an error which led to the expiry of the policy with its later repercussions.Although Admiral at first denied having known about Ms As conviction, they later agreed
that they had known about Ms A being stopped by the police for DWI. Admiral had
discovered some information from their files on Mr Hs previous policy that had expired in
September 2019. This showed that the Motor Insurers Database asked Admiral on 28
October 2019 if Ms A had been insured with them then because she had been stopped by
the police. Admiral confirmed that she was no longer insured with them because the policy
had expired. So, Admiral knew that Ms A had been stopped by the police for driving without
insurance, and they agreed that they should have probed Mr H more when he renewed the
policy in 2020. So, they upheld his complaint about that and offered him £150 in
compensation.
Mr H thought that because Admiral already knew that Ms A had been stopped by the police, 
when Mr H renewed his policy it was reasonable for him to assume that he didnt need to
disclose Ms As conviction to them  because they already knew about it. However, Admiral
only knew that Ms A had been stopped, not that she had been convicted. If Admiral had
probed Mr H further about the matter in the renewal phone call, Mr H may have disclosed
the DWI conviction then. But I dont think that Admirals failure to probe on that one occasion
overrides Mr Hs duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. That duty
continued to apply to Mr H, and he should have disclosed the conviction to Admiral when the
policy renewed.
Admiral have shown us that they sent Mr H his policy documents in 2019, 2020 and 2021
which noted that Ms A had no convictions. Those documents said that Mr H should check
the documents carefully and contact Admiral if anything was incorrect.
Mr H had a duty to check these and to tell Admiral that information within them was
incorrect. Because he didnt do that, I think Mr H did fail to take reasonable care not to make
a misrepresentation about Ms As conviction, but Im satisfied that misrepresentation was
careless rather than deliberate or reckless.
This was because it was made against the background that Admiral did know about Ms As
driving without insurance, and Mr H assumed that Admiral knew. So its not as if Mr H didnt
think about the question or its importance, nor did Mr H give a deliberately incorrect answer. 
For these reasons I think its fair the misrepresentation is treated as a careless one.
Admiral has shown evidence that they dont insure anyone with an IN10 conviction (a
conviction for driving without insurance). They say this means they can avoid Mr Hs policy.
However the conviction belonged not to Mr H but to Ms A who was a named driver. So, Mr
Hs misrepresentation entitled Admiral to not insure Ms A, and remove her from cover, but it
didnt entitle Admiral to avoid the policy because it would have insured Mr H , albeit on
different terms (without Ms A as a named driver). And so it follows that I think that Admirals
decision to decline Mr Hs claim on the basis that it avoided the policy because of Ms As
conviction was unfair and not in line with the remedies for a careless qualifying
misrepresentation set out in CIDRA.
In relation to Mrs Hs speeding conviction, Admiral has not shown us that if Mr H had
disclosed it, it would have made a difference to the premium, so there is no qualifying
misrepresentation under CIDRA. So, its not fair Admiral take any action in relation to this.
And so, to put things right I think that Admiral should reinstate Mr Hs policy without Ms A as
a named driver on it and assess his theft claim in line with it. Should this mean the claim
should be paid, they should add interest to that settlement from the date they should
reasonably have settled his claim.Admiral should also compensate Mr H for his loss of use of his car for the period until he
bought the new car. Mr H said he was waiting for Admiral to pay his theft claim so he could
buy a new car. But it was very inconvenient for him and his family to be without his car for so
long, because he has four children and had to pay for taxis to transport them to school and
elsewhere. So he finally had to buy one from his own funds. I think Admiral should
compensate him £10 a day from 30 May 2021 when the claim should reasonably have been
settled, to 15 September, when he bought a new car.
And because of Admirals avoidance, Mr H wasnt able insure his new car in his name but
could only be a named driver, and wasnt able to insure a car of the same size or engine
type as his stolen car. He also had to pay more in premiums. Admiral should therefore
compensate Mr H for any extra premium amount that he has paid for insurance with a new 
insurer.
Mr H also felt that Admiral had damaged his good reputation because he works in the
finance industry. He wanted Admiral to clear his name and remove any record of
cancellation and avoidance from the insurance database. He also wanted Admiral to
compensate him for his solicitor fees of about £8,000 in bringing the complaint to us. But as
the investigator explained, this Service does not award compensation for legal fees accrued
because this is a free service and parties do not require representation to bring a complaint,
though they may choose to do so.
Because Admiral cant show why they changed that agreed process for contacting him, I
dont think it was fair that they failed to auto-renew his policy . I think that they should
therefore remove all insurance database references to cancellation and avoidance of his
policy and declination of his claim.
I go on to consider compensation for distress and inconvenience. This is payment to reflect
the impact that Admiral s mistake had on Mr H. Admiral offered £150 but the investigator
recommended an award of £2,500. She thought that was the right level of compensation to
reflect the impact the declinature of his claim and avoiding of his policy for misrepresentation
had on Mr H as he had to deal with the matter for about a year and a half.
Mr H works in the finance industry and is concerned about his reputation. He feels that he
has been blacklisted by insurers and he has been unable to insure himself for the sort of car
he had before. I can see that must have been frustrating for him. However he was still able
to obtain a new car and insurance for it and in my view the adverse consequences for Mr H
arising from Admirals actions in cancelling his policy are resolved by the above redress I
propose to award.
Mr H has confirmed that he has not had to disclose anything about the issue to his employer.
So, he was not impacted at work, although I appreciate his concern that he may have been.
This is as I would expect, because the DWI conviction wasnt his, but Ms As. So, it did not
impact Mr Hs reputation at work or in his industry. Ms A is not party to the complaint and as
the investigator explained, we dont have power to award her compensation as a result. But 
Ms A worked for Mr H and would have been relying on him to properly insure the car she
was driving. I appreciate that it would have been embarrassing for Mr H that his worker
received a conviction due to problems with his insurance. Nevertheless, in my view the
distress and inconvenience that Mr H experienced is more adequately reflected by an award
of £1,000 and that is more in line with our guidelines.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I uphold the complaint.And I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Reinstate Mr Hs policy on the revised terms of not having Ms A as a named driver
and assess his claim in line with those terms.
Should the claim be paid, Admiral should add 8% simple interest to the claim
settlement figure from 30 May 2021 (four weeks from when Mr Hs vehicle was
stolen, and the date the claim should have been reasonably settled) until the date
Admiral settles this.
Pay Mr H £10/day for his loss of use of the vehicle from 30 May 2021 until when he 
bought a new car on 15 September 2021
Remove any records in relation to cancellation and avoidance of Mr Hs policies and
declination of his claim from all insurance databases (internally and externally).
Give Mr H a letter explaining that one policy was cancelled or not renewed, and the
other avoided, both in error, which he may give to future insurers.
Compensate Mr H for any extra premium amount that he has paid for insurance with
the new insurer following Admiral avoiding his policy.
Pay Mr H £1,000 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience their actions
have caused him.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision. Admiral said they accepted it but that they could not 
reinstate Mr Hs policy as it was from 2021. I explained that what I was requiring was for 
Admiral to effectively reinstate Mr Hs policy; thats to say Admiral should act as if they had 
not avoided Mrs Hs policy, act as if the policy was still in force without having Ms A as a 
named driver, and deal with Mr Hs claim as if that policy was still in force. Admiral accepted 
that. So my final decision follows my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. And I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Effectively reinstate Mr Hs policy on the revised terms of not having Ms A as a 
named driver and assess his claim in line with those terms
Should the claim be paid, Admiral should add 8% simple interest to the claim
settlement figure from 30 May 2021 (four weeks from when Mr Hs vehicle was
stolen, and the date the claim should have been reasonably settled) until the date
Admiral settles this
Pay Mr H £10/day for his loss of use of the vehicle from 30 May 2021 until when he
bought a new car on 15 September 2021
Remove any records in relation to cancellation and avoidance of Mr Hs policies and
declination of his claim from all insurance databases (internally and externally).
Give Mr H a letter explaining that one policy was cancelled or not renewed, and the
other avoided, both in error, which he may give to future insurers.
Compensate Mr H for any extra premium amount that he has paid for insurance with
the new insurer following Admiral avoiding his policy.
Pay Mr H £1,000 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience their actions
have caused him.
Admiral must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr H 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr H how much they have taken off, and give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
