DRN-1238765
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc closed his current account without notice, and that 
it did so in reprisal for an earlier complaint of his which was upheld.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr Bs current account with Clydesdale was closed. He complained that this 
had been done with no advance notice to him, and he suspected that it was revenge for 
having made another complaint to our Service about the account, which had been upheld.
Clydesdale told Mr B that it had given him written notice of the account closure in May, and 
that it had closed the account in accordance with the accounts terms and conditions. The 
reason was because the account had been in an unarranged overdraft for some time, and 
although Mr B had repeatedly been asked to bring his account back into credit and keep it 
there, he had failed to do so. It was not because he had complained before, although the 
bank reminded Mr B that in the first complaint one of our investigators had told him that he 
did have to repay his overdraft, contrary to what Mr B said he had been told by the bank.
As a gesture of good will, Clydesdale waived the closing balance, which had been about £44 
overdrawn. But this did not satisfy Mr B, who wanted his account to be reinstated. He 
brought this complaint to our Service, and it was investigated by the same investigator who 
had dealt with his original complaint. That investigator did not uphold this new complaint. He 
said that Clydesdale had sent Mr B a letter in May 2019 warning him that it would close the 
account if he did not repay his overdraft and keep the account in credit. He thought 
Clydesdale had been entitled to do that, and he reminded Mr B that he had found no 
evidence that Clydesdale had told him that he could repay his overdraft whenever he 
wanted.
Being dissatisfied with that answer, Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted that Mr B asked to speak to me on the phone before I made my decision. 
However, after reading all of the evidence in this case, including Mr Bs emails, and listening 
to recordings of his phone calls with the bank, I think I have seen and heard enough to fairly 
reach my conclusions in this case without needing to speak with Mr B. The issues in this 
case are straightforward and the evidence is clear.
The type of current account Mr B had with Clydesdale is called a current account control. 
I have read the relevant terms and conditions. Paragraph 25.4(b) states: as your account is 
designed to allow you to control your borrowing under an Unarranged Overdraft, we will 
usually refuse any request for an Unarranged Overdraft. It goes on to list some exceptions 
to this rule, when an unarranged overdraft may be granted, but these are very limited in 
scope. It is clear that the account is not intended to be overdrawn very often or for very long, 
and that an overdraft balance is meant to be exceptional. The account is not meant for 
customers who wish to rely on an overdraft; there are other accounts for that.
I have noted that Mr B did make monthly payments into his account which brought its 
balance back into credit, but within a short time afterwards the account would always be 
overdrawn again. That is not how the account is intended to be used.
Paragraph 13 of the terms and conditions says that a customer may be asked to repay his 
unarranged overdraft at any time. And paragraph 18.3 says that Clydesdale may close an 
account by giving two months notice.
I have seen the banks letter to Mr B, dated 16 May 2019, which told him that his account 
may be closed without further notice unless, within the next two months, he brought his 
account back into credit and maintained that position. The letter is clear and unequivocal. It 
is correctly addressed, and Mr B has not denied that he received it. So I think that 
Clydesdale did give him enough notice that it was going to close his account. I also think that 
it was reasonable of Clydesdale to do that, since it wrote to him several times (before and 
after this letter) to remind him that he was using an unarranged overdraft and of what he 
needed to do.
I have seen nothing to suggest that this was not the genuine reason for closing the account, 
or that the real reason was because Mr B had complained before.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman