DRN-3502198
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited delayed sending him a surrender 
form for his whole of life policy and this caused him to suffer a financial loss when the 
surrender value was paid.
What happened
Mr A contacted Aviva by telephone on 11 January 2021 and asked to partially surrender his 
whole of life policy, also referred to as an executive investment plan. Aviva said it would 
send out the claim form and Mr A should allow 10 working days for it to be received. Mr A 
chased Aviva for the claim form and Aviva sent it out on 27 January. Mr A completed the 
claim form and returned it to Aviva who received it on 2 February and paid out the full 
surrender value on 3 February.
Mr A complained to Aviva that if had had issued the claim form within 10 working days he 
would have returned the claim form two days earlier and the surrender value would have 
been higher than it was when the surrender was processed.
Aviva accepted that it had delayed sending the claim form and recalculated the surrender 
value as if it had sent the claim form to Mr A on 25 January. Aviva calculated the difference 
in the amount paid as £223.78 and it added 8% interest to this amount. Aviva also offered to 
pay Mr A £50 for the trouble and upset this had caused him.
Mr A didnt agree with Aviva and thought that date of surrender should have been earlier 
when the value was higher. So, Mr A brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service and one of our Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that the 
offer Aviva made was a fair and reasonable one. Mr A didnt agree with the Investigator and 
asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr A will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided remedy Aviva has paid to Mr A was a fair and reasonable one in 
the circumstances. I will now explain why.
Theres no dispute that Aviva delayed in sending the claim form to Mr A within 10 working 
days. Mr A and Aviva dont agree on what the date of the surrender would have been if 
Aviva had sent out the claim no later than the tenth working day. So, Ive looked at what I 
think should have happened if the claim form had been sent to Mr A on the tenth day, and at 
what the impact may have been on the surrender value.
Mr A called Aviva on 11 January and there was some discussion whether he could surrender 
a portion of the policy. Regardless of whether this would be a partial or full surrender, Im 
satisfied Aviva told Mr A it would issue the claim form within 10 working days. Aviva has 
confirmed that it doesnt count the day of the request as the first working day. I dont 
consider thats unreasonable as requests can happen at any time during the day and it 
seems to me Aviva has adopted a consistent approach that the response time is ten full 
working days. Taking this into account I think its reasonable for me to conclude that ten 
working days from 12 January is 25 January, which is the same date Aviva has used in its 
remedy calculation.
After Aviva sent the claim form to Mr A on 27 January it was received back on 2 February, 
which is six calendar days. Im therefore satisfied I can reasonably conclude that if Aviva had 
sent the claim form to Mr A on 25 January, its more likely than not Aviva would have 
received it back on 31 January, which was a non-working day for Aviva. The next working 
day wouldve been Monday 1 February, and as Aviva told Mr A at the time it used working 
days rather than calendar days, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to use 1 February when 
calculating an appropriate remedy.
Mr A has suggested he couldve sent the signed claim form back earlier, but I cant 
speculate when he could have returned it. Instead, I consider its fairer that I use the dates 
when Aviva received the claim form as this is when I would expect them to calculate the 
surrender value.
As Aviva used the value of the fund on 1 February and calculated the difference in the value 
of the fund on this day and the actual surrender value it had paid to Mr A, Im satisfied that 
the remedy Aviva paid to Mr A was a fair and reasonable one. Ive noted that Aviva also 
added interest at 8% to the difference to reflect that Mr A was without this sum for a short 
period of time, and it paid Mr A £50 for the trouble and upset the matter had caused him. I 
consider this was also fair and reasonable and in line with what we would normally consider 
in cases such as this.
My final decision
Ive decided that the remedy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already paid Mr A is a 
fair and reasonable one and I wont be asking it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman