DRN-1986417
The complaint
Mr W has complained that HSBC didnt make him aware of the costs that have been applied 
to his investment ISA.
What happened
Mr W opened an ISA account with HSBC in 1999, he says no costs or charges were taken 
or listed on his statement until 2015. From then on he says service charges began to be 
taken and were listed on his statements. 
In May 2019 Mr W received a letter from HSBC stating he had incurred service and product 
costs totalling £84.04 from 3 January 2018 to 28 November 2018. So, Mr W contacted 
HSBC in June 2019 to discuss the charges, but he was unable to remember his security 
details, so he was unable to continue with the call.
Mr W says he wrote to HSBC to ask about the charges, but he received no response. 
Because of this he visited his local branch to discuss the charges in person. Mr W says the 
advisor he spoke to contacted the investment department who explained that they had 
received his letter and would respond in due course. HSBC did respond to Mr W but he was 
unhappy with its explanation, so he sent further correspondence. But it wasnt until             
30 September 2019 that Mr W received a further response from HSBC. However, Mr W  
remained frustrated with its response as he felt his questions regarding the charges and 
request  to have full  disclosure wasnt being provided by HSBC. 
Mr W wanted to know the total amount of charges that had been deducted from his 
investment and when they had been deducted. As Mr W remained unhappy, he brought his 
complaint to our service. HSBC issued its final response on 14 November 2019.
Our investigator looked into Mr W complaint, but he didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly. To 
summarise, he said because of the time that had passed, HSBC had limited information from 
point of sale. But it had provided the key facts document which was available when Mr W 
opened his ISA. Our investigator felt that the booklet clearly explained the charging 
structure, so he couldnt conclude Mr W was unaware of the charges.
Our investigator also looked into why Mr W hadnt seen the associated charges on his 
statements prior to 2015. He said originally Mr W held old style shares (legacy shares) which 
were later converted to new style shares (clean class). The legacy share classes included 
the fund providers charge for managing the fund and administration charges. But the clean 
share classes only included the fund providers charge for managing the fund within their 
ongoing charges. This means that when Mr W shares were converted to the clean share 
classes, the charges that he had to pay were broken down. So, the administration charges 
that he had use to pay through the fund itself were now being charged separately outside the 
fund. And our investigator was satisfied that HSBC had explained this to him in 2015.
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr W was unhappy with the time it had taken HSBC to 
respond to his complaint, but he felt it had acted within a reasonable timeframe. And as it 
had offered £100 for any inconvenience it had caused, he felt HSBC had done enough. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said he was unaware of the associated 
charges, hadnt obtained a breakdown of all the costs and charges he had incurred and 
remained unhappy with the service HSBC had given him. So, the complaint was passed to 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
I have reviewed the key features document which is relevant for Mr Ws ISA. Having done 
so, I can see that it explained how charges and expenses taken within the fund effect the 
value of his investment and how much any advice would cost. At the time of taking the ISA 
out, Mr W would have had to sign to say he had seen and understood the key features 
document. And so, I am satisfied Mr W would have been aware of the charges his 
investment would incur at the time.
Prior to 2012 only initial fees were charged to customers directly. Other associated charges 
were taken from within the pooled investment funds and were reflected in the fund prices. 
They were never taken directly from individual customers or explicitly charged. And this is 
what seems to have caused the confusion for Mr W.
I have also seen evidence of the letters which were sent to customers in 2012 outlining the 
changes to their investments following the regulators Retail Distribution Review coming into 
effect from the end of the year. This letter explained that amongst the changes being made 
were a new charging structure and the introduction of new share classes for funds. At that 
time the charging structure was not compulsory for existing customers, so at that point Mr W 
didnt have to convert his share classes but had the choice to do so. However, a further letter 
was issued in 2015 which stated:
This letter also included a personalised schedule which highlighted when customers funds 
would be converted, and also compared costs between the legacy and clean share classes 
of the funds. So, what this meant was that the Retail Distribution Review changes to the 
share classes were no longer optional, as Mr W had chosen to convert his holdings in 2012, 
that happened after HSBCs letter in 2015. Im satisfied the conversion and change of 
charging structure was a reasonable thing for HSBC to have done  and in fact something it 
was required to do in line with the changes to the regulators rules.
Im also satisfied that in both 2012 and 2015 HSBC wrote to Mr W explaining the changes 
and what they meant for him. Overall, Im satisfied that hes not paying anything he wasnt 
already (its just being charged in a different way) and that he was made aware of what hed 
be paying and how.
The letter also explained that if Mr W was unhappy with converting his shares, he would 
need to either sell or transfer them before the cut-off date. And so, I think it is reasonable to 
suggest if Mr W was unhappy or confused about the changes to the charging structure, he 
could have raised his concerns with HSBC as this point and made alterative arrangements if 
he didnt want to pay for HSBCs services in that way.
A further change in regulation came into force in February 2019, causing firms like HSBC to 
be obliged to detail charges on customers statements in a different way. In short, as well as 
giving charges as a percentage, HSBC needed to tell Mr W what hed paid in monetary 
terms too. The rules said HSBC needed to backdate this information to January 2018. As a 
result, Mr W got a statement in May 2019 with charges detailed over the previous year and a 
half. While HSBC could have been clearer about why that statement looked a bit different, 
Im satisfied Mr W has now had this explained to him.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr W was made aware at the outset of the costs and charges 
associated with his ISA, and how theyd be taken. I am also satisfied that Mr W was made 
aware that the charging structure would change, and how it would be reported to him. I dont 
think HSBC have charged him anything it shouldnt have, and I think its explained what it 
has taken. So, I find no basis to say it ought reasonably to pay Mr W any compensation in 
relation to these matters.
Historic charges
Mr W took out the ISA in 1999. But as explained above, due to the new charging structure, 
and how it was recorded, some charges only became visible form from 2016. Prior to this the 
charges were taken from the pooled fund.  I have seen evidence to show HSBC have sent 
Mr W letters that explain the charges and costs that his ISA wouldve incurred. HSBC has 
also provided the requested information from the date that the charges were taken from      
Mr Ws ISA. And so, I am satisfied it has done all it can in regards to this.
Delays
I appreciate that Mr W attempted to contact HSBC via phone (although this call was 
unsuccessful), sent numerous letters and visited his local branch. And he did experience 
delays waiting for HSBC to respond to his concerns. While I appreciate that this would have 
caused Mr W a degree of inconvenience, HSBC did respond in the timeframe provided to it. 
Therefore, I cant say it acted unreasonably. HSBC has offered Mr W £100  and I think 
thats a fair and reasonable outcome in light of the inconvenience Mr W suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman