DRN-2015490
The complaint
Mr H complains about the sale of two personal protection policies which are operated by 
Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon. He says that a mistake in a special condition 
applied to his cover led him to being over-insured. Further, he believes a number of other 
administrative errors took place which were not picked up, including the failure to issue 
paperwork, varying his sum assured on one policy and mistakenly cancelling his direct 
debits.  
What happened
In March 2014, Mr H applied for separate life assurance and critical illness policies with 
Aegon. He made the applications through his independent financial adviser.  
Mr H already had policies providing the same amount of cover  that being £7,000,000 of life 
assurance and £1,000,000 of critical illness benefit. However, through his IFA he sought new 
policies through Aegon as a replacement for the existing policies held with a different 
insurer. The proposed new policies both had terms of thirteen years, up to 2027. 
Once it had assessed the applications, Aegon wrote to Mr H via his IFA on 30 July 2014, 
noting the larger policy could not go on risk until a start date was agreed and not until it had 
confirmation that Mr H accepted the offer had a special condition; it required simultaneous 
cancellation of his existing policy once the new policy came into force. 
Aegon also said that it needed confirmation of agreement to the amended offer of cover, 
which reduced the sum assured on the larger policy to £6,000,000  that reduction had been 
at Mr Hs IFAs request, and made up to the existing level of £7,000,000 by inclusion of 
£1,000,000 of life cover on the critical illness policy instead. 
Aegon received confirmation to proceed from Mr Hs IFA, and the policies came into force in 
August 2014 with premium payments to be paid by Mr Hs business. 
In 2018, Mr H reviewed his cover and says he realised that he had never been sent 
paperwork. He believed that because the IFA worked from the same building as him, that the 
IFA had intercepted his paperwork. He therefore contacted Aegon and asked for his policy 
documents to be resent. 
On receipt of the paperwork, Mr H said that he realised firstly the sum assured for the life 
assurance policy was lower than expected and secondly that until 2015 when his larger 
policy had lapsed, he had paid for a policy that he couldnt benefit from because of the 
special condition attached to the cover. 
Mr H told Aegon he had never been made aware of the special condition, and if he or his 
family had needed to make claims on either policy, they would have been worthless. He also 
believed the IFA had hidden the amount of commission he had earned from him. 
Mr H appointed a solicitor, who complained to Aegon on his behalf. The solicitor said that 
serious errors with the policy inception were the fault of Aegon, and that appropriate 
compensation for those errors was a refund of premiums on the larger policy to date. It also 
raised concerns about the IFAs actions regarding commission, the receipt of post and how 
he had acted on Mr Hs behalf. 
Aegon firstly directed the elements of the complaint which were about the IFA to the 
business responsible for the IFAs actions. 
Aegon rejected the complaint. In respect of the larger policy, it said it recognised that 
because of the failure to cancel the life assurance policy right away, Mr H was over-insured 
from August 2014 to February 2015. It therefore offered to return his premiums paid during 
this period as it wouldnt have been in a position to pay a claim during those dates, because 
of the special condition attached to the policy. It said it was willing to refund £13,434.36 to Mr 
H as an ex-gratia payment. 
 
However, Aegon stated that the fact Mr H was over-insured and/or subject to the special 
condition was not its fault, as it was not responsible for cancelling the existing cover. It 
reiterated that Mr H had not been otherwise over-insured or barred from pursuing a claim 
because of the special condition after he had cancelled his other policy.
It also rejected the rest of the complaint. It apologised for any confusion when Mr H first 
asked about his policies not covering him if the previous ones had been left to run. However, 
it had since clarified that Mr Hs policies did provide the cover he had applied for, from the 
outset for the critical illness policy and in the case of the life assurance from February 2015.  
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr H brought the complaint to this service. He reiterated that 
he felt Aegon had contributed to him being over-insured, and it had acted without his 
express consent. He also added additional issues on the complaint form, relating to his 
concerns about administration including the direct debit, how the IFA received commission 
and the failure to send the paperwork. 
Mr H said to resolve his complaint, he wants to be refunded for the premiums he has paid for 
his policies to date. 
Aegon said it disagreed that any further premium refund was due  the premiums had paid 
for valid cover that claims could have been made against, if needed. It noted Mr Hs policies 
are still in place and has been providing him with the cover that he asked it for. Aegon said 
they will remain in place for the remaining agreed term, unless he stops his premium 
payments, or they are ended by a valid claim. 
Our investigator did not believe the complaint should be upheld. She said that she didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Aegon to put the policies on risk or amend the sum assured of 
the life assurance policy because it had acted on confirmation from the IFA, who was 
authorised to provide instruction from Mr H. She further noted that responsibility to cancel 
any policy lies with the policyholder, so Aegon was not at fault if the L&G policy carried on. 
Finally, she recognised that Aegon had cancelled Mr Hs direct debits, but she noted that his 
policies hadn't been affected - the direct debits were reinstated, and the payments brought 
up to date. She therefore didnt believe Aegon needed to do anything more.  
Mr H said he disagreed with the outcome and that he wanted the matter passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision. He said that the issue with the direct debits had meant he wasnt 
insured. He also made some further points about his unhappiness with the IFA.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must point out to Mr H that this complaint is not about the IFA. That adviser was a separate 
entity from Aegon, and I note Mr H has already pursued a separate complaint about the IFA 
directly. I wont therefore be looking at the points of complaint which sit with the IFA in the 
context of this decision. This complaint concerns any action or inaction of Aegon in relation 
to Mr Hs policies. Having reviewed everything both parties have submitted, I agree with our 
investigator that this complaint should not be upheld.  
I realise Mr H feels that the way the special condition was applied to his policy meant that he 
would have been either over-insured or not insured at all with Aegon. Aegon is able to 
determine the circumstances under which it was prepared to insure Mr H  and it has 
maximum limits for which it can offer life cover. 
As a confirmed representative, Aegon was permitted to take instructions from the IFA on Mr 
Hs behalf. In July 2014, the IFA contacted Aegon setting out that:
Just to confirm that I have spoken with the above client with regard to the rating and 
the cover offered and he is happy to proceed on the terms offered. With this in mind 
could you please put [the policies] on risk from 01/08/2014.
The instruction to amend the sum assured to £6,000,000 on the larger life assurance policy 
came from Mr Hs IFA. It was then agreed by Aegon and reconfirmed by the IFA. 
I realise Mr H did not receive policy paperwork, but Aegon has shown it was issued and 
addressed to Mr H at his business address, as instructed. If Mr H didnt receive it (as he 
says the IFA intercepted it), he could have asked Aegon to reissue it. Mr H held policies of 
the same nature already, and therefore ought reasonably to have expected that policy 
paperwork would be issued following an application and a confirmation of terms. 
Mr H intentions were to find a better deal by reviewing his cover, through his IFA. It would 
not follow for the existing policies to remain in place, whether a special condition was a 
requirement or not. One set of policies was intended to replace the other. That the larger 
policy remained in force is not the fault of Aegon, yet despite this it has offered Mr H an ex-
gratia refund of premiums for the period up to February 2015 when the policy was eventually 
cancelled.  
Up until Mr H pursued a complaint, Aegon had been expressly informed by the IFA that the 
policies had both been cancelled. In an email to Aegon dated 7 August 2014 (in direct 
response to a letter asking for confirmation that the policy had been cancelled), the IFA said:
The direct debits to the [insurer name] schemes were cancelled on the 28th of July 
with a collection date of 1st of August.
This was later reconfirmed by the adviser on 24 November 2014, three months after the 
policies had begun.  
I do not believe Aegon is at fault for what happened with Mr Hs existing policies, or any 
matters which relate to communications between Mr H and his IFA. Aegon offered insurance 
terms to Mr H following an application via his IFA and it did so on the confirmation that the 
terms were accepted by Mr H. It has not acted unfairly.
Like our investigator, I do not accept the point argued by Mr H or his solicitor that premiums 
from the larger policy from February 2015 to date should be returned to him. Those 
premiums were paid in return for Aegon providing life assurance should Mr H have passed away. There is no reason to return those premiums to him  he was, and continues to be, 
insured on terms he applied for. And I have seen no error or action caused by Aegon that 
would justify ordering a return of the premiums.   
At the time Mr H approached Aegon for further copies of paperwork, his direct debits were 
mistakenly cancelled. Aegon has apologised for the error, updated Mr Hs premiums and 
explained that at no time were his policies lapsed or ended such that claims couldnt be 
made if needed. I do not think anything more can reasonably be done here. Aegon has fairly 
resolved a minor administrative error and I do not believe further redress is appropriate. 
I note that the ex-gratia offer from Aegon to Mr H had an expiry date of March 2019, several 
months before the complaint was referred here. The offer is therefore a matter between the 
parties, and I leave it to Mr H to liaise with Aegon, if it is still prepared to offer it now.   
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman