DRN-4146547
The complaint
Miss L complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) plc (TMW) has failed to treat her fairly 
when she asked for information about her buy-to-let mortgage.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss L and TMW and I dont intend 
to set it out in detail. But Miss L has a number of concerns with how TMW has supported her 
with her buy-to-let mortgage. 
Miss Ls mortgage is currently charged interest at TMWs Managed Variable Rate (MVR) 
and its been on this rate since February 2022. Miss L has asked whether she can change to 
a new product with a fixed rate at different points since February but has been unable to 
make changes. TMW has said this is because she has been operating the mortgage in 
breach of its terms and this has meant it is unable to offer a product transfer. Ultimately, 
Miss L feels errors made by TMW have resulted in her losing out in the ability to fix the 
interest rate on her mortgage and shes paid more than she should have over a number of 
months because of this. 
Our investigator looked at Miss Ls complaint and felt TMW acted fairly when it said it 
couldnt offer a new product. She said when Miss L asked to fix her mortgage rate, TMW had 
correctly said this wasnt an option because the mortgage was in breach of its terms. She set 
out a timeline of what happened when Miss L spoke with TMW at different points and felt it 
had given Miss L information on what she needed to provide to allow the consent to be 
considered. 
But she felt TMW could have done more with how it responded to Miss L. She felt it could 
have offered better service by having conversations with Miss L and explaining what was 
needed sooner. And after Miss L had explained the difficult circumstances she was facing in 
September and October, its delayed response added to the distress and inconvenience 
which compiled a very difficult time for Miss L and it was right that TMW recognised the 
impact of this with a payment of £300.
Miss L didnt think this was fair. She highlighted the financial impact of TMW not confirming if 
it would consent to the tenant was far greater than this. She said her personal circumstances 
had been severely impacted by this situation and this needs to be considered. Miss L feels 
TMW would never have approved the tenant she has in place for her property and it should 
have informed her of this in April 2022 when she first asked whether they were suitable. The 
failure to tell her this at the time has meant the matter has been drawn out for many months 
and cost her a significant amount in additional interest paid as the MVR has continued to 
increase. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but said her opinion didnt change. She 
explained why she still believed TMW acted fairly when it said the mortgage was in breach of 
its terms and couldnt offer a product. 
Overall our investigator maintained that TMW should pay £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused when it wasnt as clear as it could have been about what Miss L 
needed to provide. She also recommends that TMW contact Miss L to discuss what fixed 
rate products it could offer if there wasnt a restriction in place. This would allow Miss L to 
make an informed choice about whether the tenancy should be extended.
Miss L still disagrees with the outcome and because of this, the complaint has been passed 
to me for decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
Miss L will be disappointed by this as it stops some way short of the outcome she is hoping 
for, but Ill explain why I think this is fair.
I understand Miss L has raised some broader concerns about TMW and how it has treated 
her for a number of years after it provided consent for her to temporally reside in her 
property. But the focus of this complaint and what was addressed by TMW in its response, is 
on the actions taken by TMW when Miss L called to discuss her mortgage in April 2022 and 
its subsequent treatment of her. 
When Miss L spoke with TMW in April 2022, she was doing so because she wanted to 
ensure the potential tenant her estate agent had found was suitable to take on the tenancy 
inline with her mortgage. This tenant was a company who intended to use the rented 
property to provide staff accommodation as and when its employees needed it. 
Miss L believes TMW should have been aware at the point she made her initial enquiry that 
her tenant was not suitable. When it didnt tell her this, she feels it has caused her to lose 
out. I appreciate the feeling Miss L has in reference to this, but I dont agree it was clear from 
her initial enquiry that her tenant was not suitable. The terms and conditions for Miss Ls 
mortgage confirm that approval must be sought from TMW to any tenancy. When Miss L 
called and spoke with TMW, she was told what she needed to do to obtain this approval and 
that it would generally take two weeks for the team who needed to consider this to provide a 
response. 
Unfortunately it was clear Miss L didnt have two weeks to wait, she said she needed an 
answer as soon as possible as the tenant was keen to secure the property. And she 
explained she didnt want to lose the tenant as she viewed them as a good option. So Miss L 
said that she would have to accept the tenancy without confirmation of consent from TMW 
and hope this would be provided. But she followed the instructions of the agent she spoke 
with and sent her enquiry to the relevant team for TMW to consider.
TMW didnt respond to Miss L until 3 May 2022  so around 2 weeks after her initial enquiry. 
In this, it explained what it would need to see to be able to consider the consent for the 
tenancy and Miss L sent this information to it on 6 June. There was no response from TMW 
to Miss L until 29 June where it confirmed it needed some more information from Miss L 
before it could consent to the tenancy. It asked that Miss L provide the following:
1. An amendment to the tenancy agreement to make it clear that schedule 5 of this 
relates to the TMW mortgage held on the property. 
2. To see a copy of the licence that the tenants grant its employees to stay in the 
property to confirm they are not being given security of tenure.Miss L spoke with her estate agent about this request to see if they could assist with 
providing the information. There was confusion over what TMW meant when asking for a 
licence. She responded to TMW on the same day to explain there is no licence but that the 
tenant allows its employees to stay in the property when needed. 
TMW responded on 15 July to clarify what it still needed. It said it expected the tenant to be 
able to demonstrate that it has a formal agreement with its employees where it grants 
permission to stay. It needed to see a copy of this and asked to see a copy of an updated 
tenancy agreement which confirmed the property is subject to TMWs mortgage. Miss L 
responded to this and asked whether TMW could provide specific wording in regard to the 
amendments it wanted making to the tenancy agreement for schedule 5. Miss L made it 
clear that she was frustrated with the process and didnt want to upset her tenant by going 
back and asking for information from them, but shed do what she could to get the 
information TMW needed.
TMW sent further information to Miss L on 7 August and included wording it said could be 
used to amend the contract. 
It wasnt until the end of August 2022 Miss L asked if her mortgage could be moved to a 
fixed rate product as soon as possible. Prior to this, I think it is fair to say that shed been 
focussing on trying to fulfil TMWs requests for information for the consent.
Miss L said she believed shed been overpaying when on the MVR, she asked for TMW to 
make an offer on what it could do to get the mortgage straight and if this wasnt provided, 
shed look for a new mortgage with another lender. Miss L also asked further questions 
about the information needed by TMW in relation to the tenancy contract.
TMW responded to Miss L and said until the consent for the tenancy was provided, it 
couldnt offer a product transfer. Without the consent, the mortgage was in breach of its 
terms and this meant it was unable to move Miss L to a new product with a fixed rate. It 
reiterated what it needed to see and pass on to the credit underwriters for the consent to be 
considered again. I dont think TMW acted unfairly when it explained this to Miss L. The 
terms of the mortgage set out that consent needs to be obtained from TMW for any tenancy 
with the property and TMW had asked for information to help determine if this consent could 
be provided from June 2022. I understand that Miss L was not clear on exactly what was 
required and this caused frustration, but I think TMW clarified this and for the most part, 
responded to Miss L in a reasonable time.
Miss L has, at a number of different points, explained to TMW her personal circumstances 
and the difficult time she has been experiencing. I think it could have done more to recognise 
the impact its delays in responding would likely have on her. So although I dont think it 
provided Miss L with incorrect or misleading information, it is reasonable to see that its 
actions will have added to the distress and inconvenience Miss L was experiencing and it 
should have recognised this and done more to support her. 
Miss L may feel that £300 is not fair compensation for the distress she was feeling or that it 
covers the financial loss she feels she has experienced. But I agree with our investigator that 
this is a fair award to recognise the impact of TMWs actions. I know Miss L has been facing 
a very difficult time and Im sorry to read this. But the compensation is for the impact of 
TMWs delays in response and failure to recognise that it could have gone further and 
responded sooner. And I think £300 for this is fair.
Previously, Miss L asked for consent to reside in her property and TMW granted this. When 
this happened it increased the interest rate which meant Miss Ls monthly payments 
increase for six months. TMW said when it reviewed this agreement it refunded the difference in what Miss L paid for this period and Miss L has referenced this refund herself 
previously.
Miss L still believes she has been paying to much for her mortgage when on the MVR and 
TMW should compensate her for these overpayments. But as Ive said above, the mortgage 
moved to MVR after the fixed rate it was on previously expired. When Miss L asked to move 
to a new rate in August 2022, this wasnt an option because of the lack of consent and I think 
TMW acted fairly when it said this couldnt be done. It explained what Miss L needed to 
provide so it could consider this again, but from what Ive seen, this has not been submitted 
in full as there has been no amended tenancy agreement supplied. So TMW hasnt been 
able to reconsider this request.  
I agree that TMW should work with Miss L to help her understand what her options are with 
her mortgage now. She is not on a fixed rate product and it is likely there is no early 
repayment charge if she looked to move her mortgage to another provider. This would allow 
Miss L the opportunity to find a new provider on a buy to let, or she may want to look to 
move the property back to a residential mortgage. These are all things she will need to 
consider and from the information she has provided, are all options I believe she would like 
to explore. And it is right that TMW provide her with the information she needs so she can 
make an informed choice about her options. 
Putting things right
To recognise the distress and inconvenience caused in this complaint, TMW should pay 
Miss L £300.
It should also offer Miss L an appointment with an adviser to look at the options available to 
Miss L now based on the tenancy she has in place (if one currently exists) so she can make 
an informed choice about her mortgage. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Miss Ls compliant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman