DRN-3398064
The complaint
Mr S complains about OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans (OFL) and 
their decision to provide him with three loans, which he feels were unaffordable.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr S applied for loan one with OFL. This application was approved, and 
Mr S received a loan of £2,000 which was repayable over a 24-month term with a monthly 
repayment of £131.05.
Mr S maintained the monthly repayment on loan one. And in August 2020, Mr S applied for 
loan two with OFL. This application was approved, with Mr S receiving £3,590.26 repayable 
over a 36-month term with a monthly repayment of £189.64. Mr S settled loan one with part 
of loan two.
Mr S again maintained the monthly repayments on loan two. And in November 2021, Mrs S 
applied for loan three. OFL approved the application and Mr S received £4,063.64, 
repayable over a 24-month term with a monthly repayment of £266.28. Mr S settled loan two 
with part of loan three. But Mr S struggled to meet the monthly repayments for loan three, 
and this led to a build up of arrears on his account. Mr S was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr S thought OFL had lent to him irresponsibly when approving all three loans. He thought 
OFL shouldve done more to ensure the loans were affordable and that if they had, the loans 
wouldnt have been provided to him. So, he wanted all interest applied to the loans to be 
refunded to him. And he wanted any negative information reported to his credit file to be 
removed.
OFL responded and upheld his complaint in part. They agreed that theyd acted irresponsibly 
when approving loan three. So, they reworked Mr S account to remove any interest that had 
been applied to that loan and removed any negative information reported to his credit file, 
again for loan three only.
But they didnt think theyd done anything wrong when approving loans one and two. They 
thought the checks they carried out were proportionate and that the information these 
checks provided suggested the loans were affordable. So, they didnt think they needed to 
do anything more for these. Mr S remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained the actions 
OFL had taken in relation to loan three fell in line with what our service would expect. So, our 
investigator hadnt considered this further. Instead, they had focused on loans one and two. 
And having done so, they thought OFLs decision to lend was reasonable. They explained 
they wouldve expected OFL to do more to understand Mr S living situation, and how much 
rent he paid. But Mr S confirmed he didnt pay rent. So, they didnt think OFLs decision to 
lend wouldve changed had they asked for this information. And they thought the information 
the checks provided suggested the loans were affordable. So, they didnt think OFL needed 
to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think the income our investigator used to assess the loans 
affordability was fair, as a large part of his income related to disability benefits paid to him for 
his children. So, he maintained his view that the loans were unaffordable.
Our investigator acknowledged Mr S comment. But they explained that OFL completed an 
electronic verification of his income. This included verifying the total incomings into Mr S 
account against the income he declared. And theyd seen evidence to show these checks 
gave OFL no cause for concerns and that the actual make up of the income wouldnt have 
been shown. So, they didnt think OLF were unfair to rely on the income Mr S stated, which 
wouldve included the disability benefit he received. So, their outcome remained unchanged. 
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. I appreciate that Mr S 
was unable to meet the monthly repayment of loan three. And I can understand the upset 
and worry this wouldve caused, due to the impact on Mr S short term financial situation and 
his credit file. And I think it follows that Mr S would look back at all three loans and feel as 
though they were unaffordable, as both loans two and three were top up loans that 
originated from loan one and OFLs initial decision to lend.
But for me to say that OFL should refund Mr S the interest charged on all three loans, Id 
need to be satisfied that OFL acted irresponsibly when approving all three loans. And to do 
this, I need to consider the checks OFL made and information the checks these provided 
and the point of each application separately. This is because Mr S financial situation, and 
the information available to OFL, wouldve been different at the point of each loan being 
approved.
OFL have already accepted loan three was provided to Mr S irresponsibly. And OFL have 
already agreed to restructure the loan to remove any interest and charges that have been 
applied and to amend Mr S credit file to ensure no negative information related to this loan 
has been reported. These actions fall in line with what our service wouldve directed and so, 
I havent considered loan three any further within my decision.
Instead, Ive focused on both loans one and two. And when Ive thought about whether OFL 
acted responsibly, Ive thought about two things. First, whether the checks OFL completed 
were proportionate to the loan Mr S received. And secondly, whether OFL assessed the 
information these checks provided fairly.
I can see for both loans, OFL completed an income verification check on the income 
information Mr S provided within his application. And alongside this, they considered the 
information reported to Mr S credit file as well as his employment and homeowner status.
Considering both loans one and two were for £2,000, with loan two also settling loan one, I 
think the checks OFL completed were proportionate to Mr S declared annual income of £25,000 and then £40,000. While I recognise Mr S annual income was inflated and more 
than the actual income he received for loan two, I dont think OFL were unfair to rely on the 
information Mr S provided. So, I dont think they did anything wrong regarding the checks 
they made before approving the loans.
Ive then thought about whether OFL assessed the information these checks, and the 
information Mr S provided in his applications, fairly.
For loan one, Mr S stated his monthly income was around £1,700 a month. And the income 
verification checks OFL completed provided no cause for concern, confirming Mr S 
incomings into his account to be around this amount. Ive seen Mr S statements which 
showed the households joint income was around £3,400 so this supports my belief that this 
income was accurate. OFL then considered this against Mr Ss monthly commitments shown 
on his credit file. And I can see Mr S credit file showed that he had existing monthly 
repayments of £339, which also falls in line with the information shown on the bank 
statements Mr S has provided. So, after monthly estimated living costs were factored in, 
which were calculated in line with industry guidelines, alongside the loans monthly 
repayment, OFL calculated that Mr S would be left with around £650 disposable income 
each month, which I think is a more than affordable amount.
Mr S credit file itself also showed that he had no active defaults, CCJs, late or missed 
payments in the previous 12 months which I think suggested that Mr S had been able to 
maintain his existing commitments well. So, when this information was compared to the 
affordability calculations OFL conducted, I dont think there was any information that 
shouldve suggested to OFL that the loan was unaffordable. Because of this, I cant say 
theyve acted irresponsibly when approving loan one.
For loan two, Mr S declared his monthly income to be around £2,570 per month. But from Mr 
S bank statements, Ive seen his households joint income was around £3,500 a month and 
so, Ive considered the affordability of the loan based on 50% of this amount. OFL did 
complete an income verification check for this loan as well and I can see that no concerns 
were flagged about the increased monthly income. So, I dont think they acted unfairly when 
considering the loan based on the increased amount at the time.
I can see OFL again considered the information reported to Mr S credit file. And this showed 
that Mr S monthly debt repayments had increased to £516 per month which falls in line with 
the information shown on his bank statements. But this £516 included loan one, which Mr S 
was settling as part of loan two. As Mr S income had remained similar, I think its likely his 
monthly estimated living costs wouldve remained around the same as when he applied for 
loan one. So, when these costs were considered against Mr S income of around £1750 and 
his monthly repayments alongside the new loan, and the loss of loan ones monthly 
repayment, Mr S wouldve been left with a disposable income of over £500, which I think is a 
reasonable amount.
Again, the credit file showed no active defaults, CCJs late or missed payments in the 
previous 12 months and so, despite the overall credit increase, I think it suggested Mr S had 
the financial means to manage this increase. Because of this, I cant say OFL have acted 
irresponsibly when approving loan two and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. And I recognise Mr S has disputed 
the total monthly income OFL, and our service, has used to calculate whether the loans were 
affordable. I dont dispute Mr S testimony that a large portion of the income he received into 
his bank were disability benefits for his children. But I dont think the reasoning for the 
income means this shouldnt be included as part of any affordability calculations. Mr S 
factored this income in, and declared it, as part of his loan applications. And the income verification checks noted this as an income into Mr S account. So, I think OFL were fair to 
consider this as part of their affordability calculations and because of this, it doesnt impact 
or change the decision Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about OAKBROOK FINANCE 
LIMITED trading as Likely Loans.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman