DRN-2330388
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that Prudential Financial Planning Limited didnt inform them 
prior to the unit price adjustment (UPA) being applied. Overall, they feel they were misled 
when investing and are unhappy with the service provided.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Prudential didnt notify them prior to the UPA being applied. 
They feel due to the size and unique nature of the UPAs being applied, prudential had a 
duty of care to notify its customers.
They also said that the sales literature didnt make it clear that a UPA of that size was likely 
or possible. As such, they feel the risk warnings and size of possible UPAs were 
understated in the product literature. If they had been made aware that UPAs of that size 
were likely, they would have never invested.
Mr and Mrs E were also unhappy with the service Prudential provided. They said they have 
had three different complaint handlers, weeks with no communication, lack of case 
progression and one case handler admitted that she had a lack of knowledge of the subject 
matter. They feel there have been a number of broken promises and incorrect information 
provided. 
With this in mind, Mr and Mrs E wanted to be put back into the position they would have 
been in if they had never invested and to be compensated for the service they have 
received.
Mr and Mrs E raised a complaint with Prudential, and it looked into their concerns. It said 
that under the terms and conditions of the policy it is permitted to apply the UPA without prior 
notice. Prudential also accepted that the service it had provided hadnt been satisfactory and 
offered £200 compensation. Mr and Mrs E remained unhappy, so they brought their 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into their complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. To 
summarise, he said he had seen no evidence to suggest that Prudential had offered advice 
throughout the life of the policy and as such he couldnt conclude that it misadvised 
Mr and Mrs E. So, he considered the policy literature and he felt it was clear, fair and not 
misleading because a possibly unfavourable UPA was always a risk with the policy. He was 
also satisfied Prudential had made Mr and Mrs E aware of this possibility in the policy 
literature.  The investigator did acknowledge the service Prudential had offered hadnt been 
of a satisfactory standard, but he felt the offer of £200 Prudential had made was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree with the investigators findings. They said they were not unhappy 
that Prudential didnt inform them prior to the UPA being applied, but they were unhappy that 
Prudential did not feel a moral need to inform them that a UPA was being applied. They feel 
the UPA and client notifications should have happened at the same time.
Mr and Mrs E also said the documentation available when they invested underestimates the 
risk factors and warnings on these funds. They explained that the fund had never had a 
negative UPA and there was nothing documented in the literature to explain UPAs of this 
size were likely.
While Mr and Mrs Es complaint was being investigated at our service, Prudential offered a 
further trouble upset award due to the service it had provided, meaning a total of £650 was 
offered. But as Mr and Mrs E remined unhappy with the outcome reach our investigator, the 
case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs E have made detailed submissions about what has happened. I hope they dont 
take it as a discourtesy that I dont reply to every point they have made. The purpose of my 
decision is to explain my findings on the issues I consider key in the complaint. 
Notification of the UPA
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E are aware that the terms and conditions of their policy says:
The Prufund range of funds has an established smoothing process which uses expected 
growth rates, and where necessary, unit price adjustments, to deliver smoothed returns and 
provide some protection from some of the extreme short-term ups and downs of direct stock 
market investments.
Therefore, Mr and Mrs E were aware that a UPA could be applied and that it was always a 
possibility with this type of fund. One of the points Mr and Mrs E are unhappy about is the 
fact they were not told about the UPA. They feel they should have been notified as the policy 
literature didnt make it clear a UPA of that size was possible. And while I appreciate their 
concerns, I cant say I agree. Having reviewed the policy literature, I cant see anything to 
suggest that Prudential were required to notify Mr and Mrs E prior to - or after the UPA was 
applied. And while they feel prudential had a moral obligation to do so, I think it acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the fund. 
I have also considered the points that Mr E has raised about his previous role as an IFA, and 
in his own words From my many years experience in the industry I would never have 
thought that a cautious fund could drop in value by almost 10% in an instance. I have also 
considered the fact he feels the fund has previously never had a negative UPA. And as the 
literature didnt outline the potential risks, how could he and Mrs E have been aware. 
As I have mentioned the terms explain the possibility of a UPA, the circumstances in which 
one would be applied and the way the size of the UPA would be calculated. So, I feel Mr and 
Mrs E had clear information to understand the risk this feature of this particular fund 
presented and made a decision whether or not to invest.The effects of the UPA feature would be to suppress the effects of actual market 
performance of the underlying investments varying wildly from the expected growth rates 
Prudential actuaries calculated.
This meant Mr and Mrs Es would get a consistent return, but this was subject to adjustment 
when reality substantially diverged from expectation. However, the adjustment wouldnt fully 
realign the fund value with the underlying investments, so Mr and Mrs E were protected from 
the full impact of, for example, investments faring far worse than expected. There is no 
suggestion that the UPA was applied anything other than in accordance with the 
methodology described in the terms, which Mr and Mrs E were aware of.
Unfortunately, the unprecedented events of Covid 19 and lockdown impacted the markets, 
and this wasnt in view when Prudential estimated its growth rates that period. So, when 
reality diverged substantially from what had been expected, the value of the fund adjusted to 
reflect that.
Its important to note this simply realigned the fund value with the underlying investments.
Again, the terms state unit price adjustments, to deliver smoothed returns and provide some 
protection from some of the extreme short-term ups and downs of direct stock market 
investments. So, the fact previous UPAs hadnt been applied of that size, doesnt mean that 
they couldnt be applied during a period of unprecedent times. And I am satisfied that with 
the experience Mr E has, and the fact no advice was provided, I am satisfied he ought to 
have been aware of that.
Customer service
Having reviewed all the evidence available, it is clear that Prudential didnt provide a 
satisfactory level of service. Mr and Mrs E have had a number of different case handlers 
which appears to have delayed progressing their complaint. They were also promised call 
backs which didnt happen, have requested call recordings which were not sent, and have 
been left feeling unconfident with the experience of the staff members they were dealing 
with. So, I can understand their frustrations and the inconvenience this has caused. 
However, I can see that Prudential has offered £650 to compensate Mr and Mrs E for the 
inconvenience it caused. 
I appreciate the level of service was unsatisfactory and would have caused Mr and Mrs E a 
degree of trouble and upset. However, the award Prudential has made is higher than what I 
would have asked it to make. So, with that in mind, I wont be asking Prudential to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman