DRN-3959979
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance, recorded a default on his credit file unfairly. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr P took out a conditional sale agreement with Santander for a used car. 
Under the terms of this agreement, Mr P was required to make an advance payment of 
£250, followed by 60 monthly payments of around £252.
Mr P has told us that his cousin became the cars registered keeper in March 2021, but that 
he continued to make payments in accordance with the original agreement terms. 
Mr P says the instalment due in November 2020 was paid late. He says two payments were 
missed in July and September 2021, which resulted in the account falling into arrears. 
On 15 September 2021 Santander issued a default notice. This said Mr P needed to pay 
arrears of £504.74 before 5 October 2021 to avoid further action being taken. The car was 
later repossessed.
Mr P complained that Santander recorded the account as being in default after just two 
missed payments. He said he hadnt received the default notice because he wasnt living at 
the address theyd written to at the time. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. They said theyd made the following attempts to 
contact him:
A letter requesting a copy of the V5, sent on 30 March 2021.
A text message asking Mr P to contact them, sent on 30 April 2021.
A second letter requesting the V5, sent on 31 March 2021.
A contact letter, sent on 28 June 2021.
A settlement figure and keeper enquiry, sent on 4 August 2021.
Text messages confirming the missed direct debit payments on 9 July 2021 and 6 
September 2021. 
Santander said theyd issued a default notice because the agreement was in arrears, and 
theyd had no contact from Mr P. They said information recorded with credit reference 
agencies is required to be a true reflection of the payment history of an agreement, so they 
were unable to change it.
Unhappy with this response, Mr P brought his complaint to us. He told us that he cleared the 
outstanding amount at the start of October 2021, but the default marker on his credit file had 
affected his credit status. 
Our investigator was satisfied that only Mr Ps name appeared on the agreement, so 
Santander were entitled to issue defaults against him if its terms werent followed. 
The investigator didnt think Santander had acted unreasonably by registering a default 
against Mr P, because two payments had been missed and there was a concern over who 
had possession of the car. Nor did he think the process Santander had followed was unfair, 
because the default had been handled in accordance with the relevant law and guidance.
Mr P remained dissatisfied. He said it was contradictory for Santander to say they hadnt 
been aware a third party was involved because theyd been taking payments from that 
persons account for more than a year. 
Mr P said Santander hadnt contacted him about the missed payments prior to taking action. 
He felt it was absurd for them to suggest they didnt have the right phone number for him, 
because theyd had no problem contacting him by phone when they wanted to collect the 
car. He said hed settled the full amount owed within 48 hours once he was made aware of 
the situation. 
Mr P felt Santander had acted incorrectly by moving straight to default, instead of putting a 
late payment marker on the account first. He said hed been advised that the account was 
required to be in arrears for a minimum of three months before it could be recorded as being 
in default. He stressed that the default marker was having a significant affect on his personal 
and business finances. 
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review things, so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement Mr P entered into with Santander was a conditional sale agreement, so Im 
satisfied that I can consider his complaint.
Santander have provided a copy of the agreement Mr P signed on 23 August 2020. Ive read 
this carefully. Mr P is shown as the customer, with no other parties named on the 
agreement. Its terms state:
You will keep the goods in your possession and under your control and will not sell, 
transfer, mortgage, lend or give the goods to anyone.
Punctual repayment of each repayment on the due date is a key term of this agreement 
and further details dealing with punctual payment are set out below.
I find this to be clear that Mr P was responsible for making repayments on the due date  
and that he wasnt permitted to hand the car over to anyone else to keep. 
Mr P suggests Santander knew someone else was involved, because theyd been taking 
payments from a third party account for over a year. I havent seen any supporting evidence 
of this. But even if payments were made from a third party account, I dont consider this to 
affect Mr Ps responsibility for keeping up with the repayments. Nor do I think it would mean 
Santander agreed to someone else taking possession of the car. 
Ive gone on to review what the agreement says about missed payments. It says Santander 
has the right to treat the agreement as repudiated: 
If you fall into arrears concerning repayment of this agreement by two or more of the 
repayments shown in the Goods and Financial Information section on the front page of this agreement and then fail to comply with a default notice that were required by law 
to send to you.
Santander have provided a copy of the default notice they sent Mr P, dated 15 September 
2021. It explained that further action would be taken unless arrears of £504.74 were paid 
before 5 October 2021. 
Both parties have provided information about payments made on this account. The evidence 
Ive seen shows payments were missed in July and September 2021 - and that the 
outstanding amount wasnt paid until after the deadline specified in the default notice. So, Im 
satisfied that Santander were entitled to treat the contract as repudiated.
I appreciate Mr P feels strongly that there were other ways Santander could have got in 
touch with him to let him know payments had been missed, rather than treating the account 
as being in default at this stage. Santander have provided a copy of their final response to 
Mr Ps complaint, in which they set out details of attempts they made to contact him by text 
message and letter. Theyve also shown us a copy of their account notes, which Ive 
reviewed. 
The account notes show Santander were notified in March 2021 that thered been a change 
to the cars registered keeper. The notes confirm Santander repeatedly tried to contact Mr P 
about this between March and August 2021 by sending him text messages and letters, but 
he didnt respond.
Ive seen that the default notice Santander issued on 15 September 2021 was correctly 
addressed to Mr P, using the postal address shown on the agreement. I note that this is the 
address we also hold for Mr P. He says he didnt receive the default notice because he 
wasnt living at that address at the time.
If he was living somewhere else, I think it was Mr Ps responsibility either to arrange for his 
correspondence to be forwarded to him, or to let Santander know that his address had 
changed. As Ive seen nothing to suggest hed asked Santander to update the contact 
information they held on their records, Im not persuaded they did anything wrong here.
I think its fair to say Mr Ps main concern is that Santander shouldnt have recorded a 
default on his credit file after only two missed payments. He feels strongly that this shouldnt 
have happened until three payments were missed. Ive given careful thought to this point.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has published Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. These principles say 
that, as a general guide, a default may be recorded when the customer is three months in 
arrears to show that the relationship has broken down. 
But the ICO principles make it clear that there are exceptions to this. They explain that, apart 
from being three or more months in arrears, there are other circumstances which may lead 
to the recording of a default. 
The evidence Ive seen shows:
Santander had been notified that the cars registered keeper changed in March 2021 
without their consent, 
Santander hadnt been able to get in touch with Mr P to find out whod got the car, 
The account was two months in arrears, and 
Mr P hadnt been in touch to pay off the arrears by the deadline given in the default 
notice. Given those circumstances, I dont consider it unreasonable for Santander to record the 
agreement as being in default. So, I wont be directing them to do anything different.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman