DRN-1774618
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with Avon Insurance Plcs decision to decline her claim.
What happened
Ms A had an accident protection policy with Avon. She was working for her previous 
employer when she became unwell in the summer of 2016. 
Ms A said she suffered a nervous breakdown and was unable to return to work owing to the 
long-lasting effects this caused her. Ms A suffered with severe depression and anxiety and 
this, she said, is the reason shes permanently and totally disabled. Ms A said this was 
caused by an emotionally difficult conversation with her previous employer, among other, 
long-standing issues. 
Avon declined Ms As claim and said that there was no accident for it to consider paying her 
any benefit under the policy.
Our investigator said that Avon had declined her claim fairly. He also said there wasnt any 
evidence that showed Ms A was permanently and totally disabled and so he didnt uphold 
her complaint.
Ms A didnt think this was right. In summary, she said that we werent taking into 
consideration her evidence which she felt adequately showed that shed suffered 
psychological harm. She also said the definition of physical harm didnt, according to Avon 
and our investigator, fairly encompass psychological aspects of her complaint. Ms A said 
that her employer had breached a number its obligations which caused her severe emotional 
distress, to such a degree, she was unable to work again. Ms A also disputed the definition 
of accident and bodily injury as defined by her policy. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A has made several submissions contesting our investigators view. I wanted to 
acknowledge this and reassure her that Ive carefully considered every point shes 
articulately made. But I still disagree with her that Avon has done anything wrong here. Ill 
explain why.
This is an accident protection policy and so is designed to provide a lump sum payment in 
the event of an accident that causes physical harm or permanent total disability. And so, for 
a claim to be accepted, this criteria must be met. There are several arguments put forward 
by Ms A where shes contesting the very purpose of this policy and the definitions described 
as part of it. Ive purposely decided not to list these points, because I dont think any of it is 
relevant to my final decision. 
Put simply, Ive not seen any evidence of an accident having occurred here and so I think 
Avon declined Ms As claim fairly. And thats because she hasnt successfully satisfied the 
basic criteria set out under this policy. 
Ms As presentation, in summary, is that she had difficulties at work and her role had 
unexpectedly expanded to include double her original workload. This caused Ms A severe 
mental health problems which culminated in her resignation. Ms A then had a phone 
conversation with one of her ex-colleagues post-resignation and it was during that interaction 
Ms A alleges the accident occurred.
Something was said during the call that gave Ms A the impression that her private medical 
information had been shared with her ex-colleague. Ive listened to the call and whilst I 
appreciate the connection Ms A is attempting to make here, Im not persuaded that this 
satisfies the criteria of her policy that an accident occurred. The policy says;
accident/accidental
means a sudden and unforeseen event which happens by chance after the start date and 
results in bodily injury.
Bodily injury means injury to your body (excluding sickness, disease or any naturally 
occurring condition or degenerative process) resulting from external violent and visible 
means
Given the above definitions, Im satisfied that no bodily injury or accident occurred following 
that interaction with her ex-colleague. Im not saying that it wasnt an unpleasant moment for 
Ms A, or that it triggered feelings of stigmatisation  as described by her psychiatrist  but its 
not enough to satisfy the policy terms. Im aware of the sensitive set of circumstances that 
surround Ms A and her severe depression, but, theres no persuasive evidence that says 
shes permanently and totally disabled. I say that because her specialists report says things 
like;
she would struggle to manage this business or to undertake any other form of paid work 
at this current time and;
In my opinion [Ms A] beliefs about the financial services industry being a small world would 
prevent her from venturing into it again locally due to her feelings of  stigmatisation regarding 
her mental health. Her loss of self confidence and high level of anxiety would be obstacles to 
entering into any alternative form of work with comparable levels of stress which she regards 
as unmanageable and unreasonable
  
The reason Ive highlighted these statements are because they indicate that although Ms A 
went through a terribly difficult time, they dont persuade me that Ms A is permanently and 
totally disabled. They suggest that at that particular time she was unable to work, which, of 
course is temporary rather than a permanent condition. The latter carefully frames the 
narrative by saying its the specialists opinion that Ms A believes shed be unable to work 
locally for the reasons given. 
This is important because the specialist doesnt explicitly say, in their medical opinion, that 
Ms A is unable to work on a permanent basis. Rather, it suggests that its Ms As belief that 
shes unable to engage in roles with comparable levels of stress. And that there are potential 
obstacles causing problems for to return to work at that time  not that theres anything that 
would totally and permanently prevent her working again due to permanent and total 
disablement. And so, thats why I say theres no persuasive medical evidence to support Ms As claim that shes totally and permanently disabled.
Ms A has made other arguments about the policy terms Avon initially sent her and drew 
parallels between those on its website. Ms A essentially said that Avon was in some way 
tampering with policy terms. Avon explained that it keeps general terms and conditions on its 
website to give a flavour of the policies it offers to potential consumers. And that the terms it 
sent Ms A were her individual terms specifically attached to her accident protection policy. I 
think this sounds reasonable and Ive not seen any evidence that persuades me that theres 
anything untoward here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman