DRN-1585750
The complaint
Mr V complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services, was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
an extra payment of £325 each year for the road fund licence for cars with a list price 
of over £40,000 was introduced in April 2017;
I consider that it would be reasonable to expect that a dealer would know, or be able 
to find out, the level of road fund licence that would be payable for a car;
Mr V ordered the car in December 2017 and it's clear that he was concerned about 
the amount of tax that had he'd be paying for it - so I consider that it would be 
reasonable to expect that he would have investigated that issue and ought to have 
known about the extra charge on cars with a list price of over £40,000;
when he complained to this service he said that he would expect to be reimbursed for 
the extra charge for five years plus a payment for his inconvenience - though he said 
that ideally he'd like to be put back in the position that he was in before the car was 
supplied to him;
the investigator initially recommended that Mr V should be allowed to reject the car 
but, when she found out that he'd part-exchanged the car, she said that Land 
Rover Financial Services should refund the extra charge that he'd paid for the car's 
road tax;
I can understand Mr V's decision to buy the car when his hire purchase agreement 
ended and then part-exchange it for another car with a different dealer - but he'd had 
the car for two years and been able to use it during that period (and the only issue 
that he had with the car as far as I'm aware related to the road fund licence); and
I'm not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Land Rover Financial Services to refund to Mr V the deposit that he paid for 
the car or to reimburse him for the difference between the part-exchange value that 
he received for the car and the amount that he paid at the end of his agreement.
 
Putting things right
The investigator recommended that Land Rover Financial Services should refund to Mr V 
the £320 road tax surcharge that he had to pay. Mr V has said that the extra amount that he paid was £325 and I understand that the extra charge is £325. So I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable for it to refund to Mr V the extra charge of £325 that he paid. I don't consider 
that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to refund any 
other payments to him, to pay him any other compensation or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Vs complaint in part and I order Black 
Horse Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services, to pay him £325 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman