The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the success fee charged by Allay Claims Ltd (Allay Claims) following a 
successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claim they made on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr B instructed Allay Claims to complete a free PPI check on his behalf in January 2019. 
Following confirmation of PPI with Lender B, Mr B instructed Allay Claims in February 2019 
to deal with his PPI claims. The terms of engagement explained Allay Claims would charge a 
success fee of 24% (inclusive of VAT where applicable) of redress recovered. 
Allay Claims sent Mr Bs claim to Lender B in March. In April Lender B agreed to pay 
compensation for Mr Bs claim. 
Mr B complained to Allay Claims about their success fee saying that the fee of 24% hadnt 
been explained to him. He said he never wouldve instructed Allay Claims if this fee had 
been made clear. 
The investigator didnt think Allay Claims had acted unreasonably in charging its invoice, and 
didnt recommend it do anything more in resolution of Mr Bs complaint. Mr B didnt agree 
with the investigators findings, saying that the terms of engagement had never been sent to 
him. Mr B requested decision by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the case, I think Allay 
Claims have acted reasonably in charging their success fee, so I wont be asking them to do 
anything more. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen that the letter of authority referred to the Mr B having read this letter of authority 
and the Allay Claims Ltd Terms of Engagement and agree to be bound by their contents. Mr 
B feels strongly he didnt receive the terms of engagement, and its unfair for Allay Claims to 
charge 24%. 
When there are different versions of whats happened provided by a business and a 
customer, we need to make a decision based on what we think is more likely to have 
happened. Although Mr B feels certain that he never received the terms of engagement 
document, the evidence Ive seen makes me think its more likely that Mr B was provided 
with information about how much Allay Claims would charge. 
DRN-1083575Ive seen that the fee information for instructing Allay Claims was clearly set out in the terms 
of engagement. If Mr B had any doubt about the terms of engagement, and the cost of the 
service he was signing up for, I dont think the contract wouldve been signed before getting 
clarity from Allay Claims. I cant see that Mr B did this. So I think its fair to say that he had 
read and understood the terms of engagement, and was aware of the amount he would be 
charged if any PPI claim against Lender B was successful. 
Allay Claims made their success fee clear in the terms of engagement. Mr B signed the letter 
of authority, and by doing so, accepted the terms of engagement. So I think its fair that Allay 
Claims charge their success fee of 24% for the successful claim with Lender B. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2019.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman