DRN-3033778
The complaint
Miss M(S) and Miss M, complain on behalf of their company, P, about the customer service 
Barclays offered following an attempted fraud on their account.
What happened
The background to this case is known to both parties, so I will only summarise events here.
On 5 June 2019, Miss M(S) was contacted by a fraudster, pretending to be from Barclays, 
who told Miss M(S) that their money was at risk. The fraudster said that there had been 
suspicious activity on the account that needed to be verified. Miss M(S) asked the caller to 
reassure her that they were genuinely from Barclays. The fraudster was able to provide Miss 
M(S) with her bank account numbers and suggested that she compare the telephone 
number that was calling her, with the number on the back of her bank card. The numbers 
matched and the fraudster was also able to send Miss M(S) a text message, requesting that 
Miss M(S) read out the unique numbers within the text message.
Believing the caller to be genuine, Miss M(S) confirmed with the caller that the transactions 
were not hers. The fraudster explained to Miss M(S) that she would need to act quickly to 
protect her money and that she needed to log onto her online banking. The fraudster told 
Miss M(S) that an attempted transaction was being made on her sons account as they were 
talking, so Miss M(S) needed to transfer money to a safe-account straight away. At this 
point, Miss M(S) became suspicious and told the caller she would call them back. Believing 
that she was being duped, Miss M(S) ended the call and contacted Barclays straight away, 
where she asked for her accounts to be frozen.
The agent at Barclays confirmed to Miss M(S) that her accounts had been frozen (which 
included her business account, her sons account and joint business accounts that Miss 
M(S) and Miss M held. Unknown to Miss M(S) at the time she made the call to Barclays the 
fraudsters had managed to gain enough information to enable them to access Miss M(S)s 
banking app, and had attempted to make a payment of £30,000 from Ps business account, 
to a beneficiary Miss M(S) knew (it is suspected that the fraudster intended to continue the 
scam following the transfer, by then contacting the beneficiary and explaining there had 
been an overpayment  which is often referred to as an advanced fee scam).
Barclayss fraud prevention systems put a block on the £30,000 and it was referred for a 
further review, before being released. Barclays has said that unfortunately the member of 
staff who reviewed the payment did not review the account notes and deemed the payment 
to be genuine, which led to it being released later in the day in error.
Miss M(S), on realising the payment had left Ps business account, visited a Barclays 
branch on 7 June 2019, to ask how this could have happened  when she had been assured 
that her accounts had been frozen.  Miss M(S) has said she was told that someone had un-
frozen her account and that somebody who could send her a legitimate text with an access 
code must have committed the fraud. 
Barclays raised a complaint on the same day and was able to recover the full amount of 
£30,000 from the beneficiary account, and this was returned to Ps business account on the 
same day.
Following this, Miss M(S) asked Barclays for details of what its investigation into the fraud 
uncovered and how it was possible for her to have received a legitimate text. Miss M said 
she didnt receive a response to this, although I can see that Barclays did issue its final 
response letter on 25 June 2019.  Barclays upheld Ps complaint and paid £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. The compensation was paid in 
recognition of; the error in releasing the payment after it had been picked up by Barclays 
fraud detection systems, for the inconvenience of having restricted access to account 
services due to the fraud and for time spent on the phone dealing with the matter.
Miss M(S) then bought her complaint to our service. In summary, she doesnt think Barclays 
has gone far enough in putting things right and she has explained the fraud had a profound 
impact on her, with her health being impacted by Barclays actions. Miss M(S), seeks 
compensation of between £7,000 - £10,000.
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think Barclays needed to do anymore.  
She considered the £150 compensation Barclays had paid to P was fair in the 
circumstances.
Miss M(S) didnt agree with our investigators opinion. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In this case Barclays were able to recover the full amount that was lost through the scam, so 
the only issue I have to decide is whether the level of compensation its offered P is fair and 
reasonable.
There isnt a set formula to decide the level of compensation which would be appropriate. 
And we cant punish banks as were not the regulator. When deciding whether or not to 
award compensation, and if so, how much, I think about the impact a business actions or 
omissions have had. And I have to be mindful here that a limited company, such as P cant 
experience distress, but can be inconvenienced. Here Barclays, has paid £150 to P as 
compensation in recognition of its error.
It is not in dispute that Barclays made an error in unblocking Ps account, after Miss M(S) 
had raised her suspicions and concerns about the call she had received. I understand that 
Miss M(S) has suggested that this is an inside job, due the her having received what 
appeared to have been a legitimate text. But it is not for this service to determine such 
matters or investigate who has committed a fraud, that is a role for the law enforcement 
agencies. Ive thought carefully about what Barclays did, once it was aware there had been an error. 
And I can see that on the same day the matter was raised with it, it was able to recover the 
money that had been lost and it refunded this to Ps account. This is what I would have 
expected it to do, in putting P back into the position it would have been in prior to the error 
being made. I also cant fairly or reasonably say that Barclays acted with any delay, once it 
was aware of what had happened. I must also consider that this was primarily caused by the 
callous act of the fraudsters.
I dont underestimate Miss M(S)s strength of feeling, and I dont doubt this would have been 
a very difficult and worrying time. But all things considered and on balance, Im satisfied that 
what Barclays has already agreed to do to put things right for P is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. ]
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman