DRN-3050583
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr Y are unhappy with Shawbrook Bank Limiteds response to their complaint 
about the outcome of their claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
Act) for some mis-sold solar panels. 
What happened
In 2014, Mrs B and Mr Y purchased a solar panel system from a supplier, which Ill call G, 
funded by a 15-year fixed term loan from Shawbrook. They borrowed over £13,000 which, 
with interest, would result in them paying back over £26,000. They were told by Gs 
representatives that the solar panels and associated energy saving devices would pay for 
themselves and that over a 25-year period, the system would make them almost £84,000.
Mrs B and Mr Y are represented by solicitors. They made a claim against Shawbrook 
pursuant to, amongst other things, Sections 56 and 75 of the Act. Shawbrook accepted 
responsibility for the claim and agreed that the panels and associated equipment had more 
likely than not been mis-sold by G. Mrs B and Mr Y wanted the panels removed and their 
money returned. They said that had they known the true benefits of the panels, they would 
never have bought them.
Rather than removing the panels, Shawbrook offered to make them self-funding over the life 
of the loan. It calculated that Mrs B and Mr Y had already paid more than the system would 
benefit them in terms of Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) payments, export tariff and electricity savings. 
So, it offered either to refund them the balance of the overpayments theyd made plus simple 
interest at 8% a year or to apply the payments theyd made to the restructured loan account. 
This would either see them pay off the loan early or pay much less each month for the 
balance of the repayment period outstanding.
In effect, in broad terms, they could either have about £1,800 back now and not pay anything 
more for the panels, or get about £8,000 back now and then continue paying for the panels 
at the original monthly cost of about £150 for another 3 and a half years. Alternatively, they 
could pay about £50 a month for the rest of the 15-year loan term.
Mrs B and Mr Y were unhappy with this offer as they thought the panels should be removed 
and they should be compensated for the loss of profit theyd suffered as a result of the 
untrue representations made. Our Investigator thought the offer amounted to fair 
compensation. As the parties couldnt agree, the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B and Mr Y may be disappointed to hear that I agree with our investigator that the 
settlement offer made by Shawbrook amounts to fair compensation. Ill explain why.
The parties all accept that the benefits of the solar panels and associated devices were 
misrepresented to Mrs B and Mr Y by G. So, theres no need for me to address that in this 
decision. Suffice to say that I agree that the evidence indicates that the benefits were 
significantly exaggerated by G. Under Sections 56 and 75 of the Act, Shawbrook must take 
responsibility for those misrepresentations and stand in the shoes of G, which has since 
gone out of business, and put things right.
I appreciate that Mrs B and Mr Ys solicitors have also brought their clients claim in the 
alternative under Section 140A of the Act, alleging an unfair relationship. They believe that 
the sale of the panels was all along intended to take advantage of Mrs B and Mr Ys lack of 
knowledge about these products and persuade them to buy something that they otherwise 
never wouldve. Ive considered this argument, although I havent found that the evidence in 
this complaint is sufficient to conclude that a Court would find that an unfair relationship 
existed here.
Although certain statements that were made were untrue, the relationship between the 
parties was itself a commercial one, rather than an outright scam as the solicitors allege. The 
over-selling of the benefits of the panels wasnt, I think, sufficient to make the entire 
relationship between the parties unfair. This is in any event academic, given the parties 
agreement, and my finding, that there was a mis-sale here. I consider that the compensation 
that Ive set out below is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and would 
remain fair redress, even if I had found there to be an unfair relationship.
Mrs B and Mr Y have said that theyve been struggling to make the repayments and that the 
loan given to them wasnt affordable. I was sorry to hear this. Shawbrook has told us about 
the checks that it undertook and has said that the lending met its loan criteria on the basis of 
Mr Ys salary at the time. It does appear that Mrs B and Mr Y have been making the loan 
payments required. And Im not aware of any significant payments being missed. I 
appreciate that they may now be struggling to make the payments, although the award Im 
making in this decision will give them the option not to pay anything more toward the loan.
Whilst I havent found that the loan was unaffordable, if I had, any award I might make would 
normally be that interest and charges arent applied to the loan account. The offer made by 
Shawbrook is in effect better than that, as the balance of the principal outstanding will be 
reduced too.
Putting things right
Mrs B and Mr Y would like the panels removed and to be compensated for the lost benefits 
that they were told they would get. When deciding on fair compensation, this isnt an exact 
science. I must weigh up the loss that Mrs B and Mr Y have suffered against the benefits 
that they have obtained and could continue to get from the panels and the other energy 
saving devices sold to them.
I dont think this is a situation where it would be appropriate for me to ask Shawbrook to 
arrange for the removal of the panels. They are working, although I understand that there 
was an allegation that they were underperforming. There was talk of the solicitors arranging 
for a report on the systems performance to be obtained. Although to date nothing has been 
sent to us.
If there is evidence that the panels were underperforming, then Id expect that to be taken 
into account by Shawbrook in its calculation of the compensation payable in this complaint. 
Shawbrook should be using the actual performance figures for the system, where available, 
to carry out its calculations of the benefit of the panels over the loan term as well as the 
standard assumptions agreed with this Service, should the data not be available. So, this 
should in any event be picked up.Where the solar panels are working and continuing to provide benefits to the customers, as 
they are here, there is little reason to conclude that they should be removed. Depending on 
which settlement option Mrs B and Mr Y take, they will continue to benefit from FIT and 
Export payments and electricity savings from the panels and other energy saving devices for 
many years to come. Over time, this will effectively further compensate them for the loss that 
they consider theyve suffered.
I appreciate that Mrs B and Mr Y think that theyve lost the benefit of the profit that they were 
promised. But when deciding on fair compensation, we dont generally look to make a 
misrepresentation true. Instead we look to cover the loss that the customer has incurred, so 
putting them into a position whereby the panels are effectively cost-neutral. Here, Mrs B and 
Mr Y have paid more for the panels for the past few years than the benefits theyve received. 
The benefits from the panels in terms of income and energy saving will, effectively, pay for 
the restructured loan. So, the panels wont cost Mrs B and Mr Y anything, as theyll only pay 
for them what theyve saved in energy use and received in terms of income. And I think 
thats fair compensation. 
The methodology that Shawbrook has used to calculate the compensation due to Mrs B and 
Mr Y has been agreed with this service on previous complaints like this one. And I consider 
that it fairly determines the benefits of the panels to Mrs B and Mr Y. Shawbrook should 
update the figures to the date any payment is made and/or applied to the loan account. So, 
for the reasons given, I wont be requiring that Shawbrook pay Mrs B and Mr Y anything 
more than theyve already offered.  
My final decision
Shawbrook Bank Limited has made an offer to settle this complaint, which I consider to be 
fair compensation in all the circumstances. So, its my decision that I require that Shawbrook 
Bank Limited:
Recalculate the loan so that Mrs B and Mr Y pay no more than the known and 
assumed savings and income that they will receive from the panels over the 15-year 
term of the loan;
Allow Mrs B and Mr Y to keep the solar panels and other energy saving devices;
Calculate any overpayments made by Mrs B and Mr Y and apply or repay those 
depending on which of the options below that they choose;
Add simple interest at 8%* a year to any overpayments from the date that they were 
made to the date that they are effectively repaid;
Arrange the removal of any negative entries on Mrs B and Mr Ys records with credit 
reference agencies that may have been reported for this loan; and
Give Mrs B and Mr Y the following options about how they would like their 
overpayments to be used:
a) The overpayments and interest are used to reduce the recalculated loan 
balance meaning that it will be fully repaid, and Mrs B and Mr Y will receive 
the balance of the overpayments and interest;
b) The overpayments and interest are paid to Mrs B and Mr Y and theyll then 
repay the outstanding recalculated loan balance by making the original 
monthly loan repayments for a reduced length of time; orc) The overpayments and interest are paid to Mrs B and Mr Y and theyll then 
repay the outstanding recalculated loan balance by making a reduced 
monthly loan repayment for the balance of the original loan term.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Shawbrook deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mrs B and Mr Y request it, Shawbrook should give them a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken off so that they may reclaim it if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman