DRN-3446383
The complaint
Mr C complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In July 2010 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £2,000 for Mr C, which was scheduled to 
be repaid at approximately £226 per month over a term of 12 months. The purpose of the 
loan is no longer clear, beyond that it was not intended for the consolidation of existing debt. 
When assessing the application, Everyday Loans took steps to verify Mr Cs financial 
circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
Whilst Mr C seems to have run into some financial difficulties in 2011, the loan was 
ultimately repaid.
Mr C complained to Everyday Loans that the borrowing was not affordable for him. Everyday 
Loans rejected his complaint, and so he brought his case to this service. The adjudicator 
thought that Mr Cs overall indebtedness at the time, and the proportion of his income which 
he needed to dedicate to servicing that debt, were significant. And so she upheld the 
complaint. Everyday Loans didnt accept that, highlighting that Mr C had a reasonable 
disposable income, so it continues to believe the lending was affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. Ill say from the 
start that I would describe this case as being particularly finely balanced.
Everyday Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, specifically the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible 
Lending Guide (ILG), so I wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry 
out borrower focused checks to ensure that Mr C would be able to repay the borrowing 
applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in ILG 4.1, that means that he could manage 
the repayments,
in a sustainable manner, without the borrower incurring (further) 
financial difficulties and/or experiencing adverse consequences.
Essentially, Mr C needed to be able to meet his financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Everyday Loans for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Everyday Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Everyday Loans asked Mr C fairly detailed questions about his income and expenditure; 
reviewed a copy of a recent pay slip and a months worth of bank statements; and carried 
out a credit check when considering his loan application. In all the circumstances of this 
case, Im satisfied that its checks went far enough.
Did Everyday Loans respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding whether 
to provide this loan?
Based on what it knew about Mr C, I do not think Everyday Loans acted fairly and 
reasonably when it concluded that this loan would be sustainable for him, bearing in mind 
the guidance in force at the time.
As previously mentioned, the adjudicator thought that this loan brought Mr Cs overall 
indebtedness to a problematic level. Everyday Loans responded by highlighting that, 
there is no ruling on the maximum amount, that is, what proportion of income can be 
definitively described as a problematic or unproblematic one. I accept that entirely. It also 
reiterated that its calculations showed that Mr C still had a reasonable disposable income 
after meeting his commitments.
Superficially, that is true. However, I think it overlooks some causes for concern in Mr Cs 
spending and circumstances at the time.
I can see that Everyday Loans considered at the time of the application the fact that Mr C 
had defaulted on two credit card accounts in the two years prior: one in September 2008 
and one in November 2009. There are notes from managers at the time acknowledging 
this and discussing needing to get to the root of the problem, which didnt seem to be a 
lack of income. However, the notes also acknowledge that actually Everyday Loans wasnt 
able to understand these defaults, suggesting the problem might simply be one of not 
paying on time. However, these were substantial default amounts, occurring within just 
over a year of each other. So I think they warranted greater significance in Everyday 
Loans assessment of the application than they appear to have been given. More 
specifically, I think they should have led to a more in-depth analysis of Mr Cs spending 
than took place.
Everyday Loans points out that the bank statement it reviewed at the time showed that the 
account was well run and shows no signs of financial distress. Again, on a superficial 
level, I can accept that. Mr C had an agreed overdraft limit that was around 33% of his 
monthly income. So it wasnt disproportionately large, and he managed it well. On the 
other hand, Mr C did have to use the overdraft most months, and was frequently 
overdrawn by more than the amount of this repayment. Meaning, hypothetically, that he 
could be described as having to borrow from his bank to make this repayment. That would, 
of course, not be in line with the guidance in force at the time.However, that is unhelpfully hypothetical in this case and not the key issue. Ultimately, 
what I think is most significant are Mr Cs cash withdrawals. A review of the statements 
shows that all the bills and living expenses that might be considered typical were managed 
through either direct debits or debit card use. This includes utility bills, household 
shopping, and leisure, such as eating out. And I can see that Everyday Loans reviewed the 
statement in detail, annotating it to explain what many items were for. Despite this seeming 
transparency in his day to day spending through the many direct debits and debit card 
transactions, Mr C continued to withdraw substantial amounts of cash. In the statement 
reviewed by Everyday Loans, he took out £700 in one month. Spending that is, essentially, 
unaccounted for. Although I dont think Everyday Loans needed to gather any more 
information on Mr Cs circumstances, I have seen many more bank statements, and have 
checked that withdrawing this amount of cash was typical for Mr C, and not an anomaly. It 
was typical over a protracted period. So Everyday Loans had the right information to spot 
this and ask serious questions about it.
Nearly 12 years later, there is no sense in speculating what that money may have been 
spent on: how discretionary it might have been, and whether Everyday Loans could have 
satisfied itself that Mr C could reduce it. But it would needed to have done that in order for 
this lending decision to be deemed responsible, given that his typical cash use exceeded 
what Everyday Loans estimated to be his disposable income. And Ive seen no evidence 
that it did. Instead, the evidence shows that Mr Cs outgoings essentially exceeded his 
income, with some mild fluctuations from month to month. In that light, the credit card 
defaults do suggest more endemic financial management problems.
Therefore, in the round, and acknowledging the finely balanced nature of this case, I cant 
see how Everyday Loans could have concluded, based on what it knew about Mr C, that 
this lending could be repaid in a sustainable manner. It therefore follows that I uphold this 
complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr C, Everyday Loans must do the following:
A) Everyday Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from this loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr C as though they had been repayments of the principal on the loan. 
B) If this results in Mr C having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to this
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022. 
Siobhan McBrideOmbudsman