DRN-1489416
 
Complaint
Mr K complains that Allianz Insurance plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Background
Mr K took out a charge card in 1989. He was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mr K 64p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I 
understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mr K was off 
work sick or lost his job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld.
Mr K didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I will go on to explain why.
Im satisfied Mr K was eligible for the PPI based on his age and employment at the time of 
the sale. 
Allianz had to make it clear to Mr K that the PPI was optional and needed Mr Ks consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mr K says he wasnt aware he had been sold PPI 
or that PPI was optional.
I cant know for sure what happened during the sale and so Ive thought about what Mr K 
and Allianz have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive been given a copy of the credit agreement. This document has a section for 
PPI. I can see that in order for PPI to be applied to the account, Mr K would have had to tick 
for it specifically. I note that the section for PPI has been ticked. If Mr K hadnt ticked to take 
PPI then I cant see that PPI would have been applied to his account at this time.So, while I appreciate what Mr K has told us, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely 
that Allianz presented PPI as optional and that it was only applied to the account because Mr 
K chose to take it out.
From the information available to me and what I know of their sales practice at the time, I 
dont think Allianz advised Mr K to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr K. So, for example, they didnt have to ask 
about or consider Mr Ks existing repayment provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable 
for Mr K. It would have been for Mr K to decide whether or not he wanted PPI despite his 
existing repayment provisions.
But Allianz did have to give Mr K clear information so that he could make a proper choice 
about whether to take the policy out. In particular, this would have been clear information 
about the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy. I cant say that 
Allianz gave Mr K all the information as they shouldve but this in itself doesnt mean that the 
policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put 
Mr K off taking the policy out. I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
 
I note what Mr K has told us about his employee sick pay entitlement, redundancy 
and savings. I havent seen any evidence of this entitlement or savings. However, as 
mentioned earlier, it wouldnt have been Allianzs responsibility to take into account 
Mr Ks existing repayment provisions. And, in any event, the policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to any sick pay Mr K may have received. It wouldve covered 15% of his 
repayments every month until the outstanding balance had been paid off or he 
returned to work. And it wouldve provided the same cover if Mr K lost his job. 
 
Mr K didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements. So, it seems like Mr K could have made a successful claim under the 
policy if the need arose.
 
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mr K.
 
Mr K couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if he 
thought he could no longer afford it or no longer wanted it.
 
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr K was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against Allianz Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman