DRN-2714659
The complaint
Ms S complains about the way Santander Cards UK Limited handled a claim under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Ms S has explained that she suffered a fall while abroad. Her treatment was unsatisfactory 
and as a result she decided to make a claim in court. She engaged a firm of solicitors to 
assist her and used her Santander credit card to pay them. 
Ms S was not happy with the way the solicitors handled her case. In particular, she says they 
did not advise her about the likely costs of bringing the claim compared with the amount she 
might recover, she was directed to a doctor who was not qualified in the correct specialist 
area and the documents which the solicitors filed in court were inadequate. In the event, the 
claim was struck out. The solicitors refunded the payments which Ms S had made. 
Ms S complained to Santander. She said that the solicitors had misrepresented their service 
to her and had been in breach of their contract. Santander did not consider however that 
either was true and noted as well that Ms S had received a refund from the solicitors. 
Ms S referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He was 
broadly in agreement with Santander however  that is, he was not persuaded that there had 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract and so did not recommend that Santander 
do any more to resolve the complaint. He noted that it had paid Ms S some compensation 
for the way in which it had handled things.   
Ms S did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have indicated, Ms S paid the solicitors using her Santander credit card. The effect of 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is therefore that, if Ms S has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against the solicitors, she has a like claim against 
Santander. I must therefore consider what she has said about her dealings with her 
solicitors.
A misrepresentation is, in summary, a statement of fact that is not true and which induces 
someone into entering into a contract. Ms S has not said what, if anything, her solicitors said 
which was untrue and which caused her to instruct them. I do not believe therefore that I can 
fairly conclude that she has a claim for misrepresentation.  
Ms S has not provided either any written contract or terms of engagement with her solicitors. 
Nevertheless, her contract with them would have required them to act with reasonable care 
and skill. 
I note that Ms Ss claim was struck out at an early stage in the court proceedings. I note too 
that her solicitors refunded the fees she had paid. That might be an indication that they 
acknowledged that they had not acted with reasonable care and skill  although it does not 
necessarily follow. It might also be an indication that she has settled her claim against the 
solicitors and so no longer has one.
What I must consider however is whether Santander acted reasonably in declining Ms Ss 
claim under section 75. In that respect, I note that it had very little information about the 
claim that Ms S was seeking to bring in court. I do not believe it was unreasonable for 
Santander to conclude that there had been no breach of contract or misrepresentation and 
that, accordingly, it had no liability under section 75. Similarly, I do not believe that I have 
seen sufficient evidence for me to conclude that there was a breach or a misrepresentation 
here and it follows that I agree that Santander handled the section 75 claim fairly. I wont 
require it to compensate Ms S any further. 
I should however comment briefly on the refund that Ms S received from the solicitors. The 
usual remedy for a breach of contract is to put the parties in the position they would have 
been in if the contract had been performed. Ms S might say that, if the solicitors had acted 
with reasonable care and skill, she would have recovered compensation for her injuries. That 
is, she might say that she was entitled to rather more than a refund of fees. I would however 
hesitate before concluding what the outcome of legal action might have been, especially 
where I have been provided with very limited information about the underlying claim. 
Because however I am not persuaded that there was a breach of contract here, I do not 
need to comment any further on that point. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Santander Cards UK Limited to 
take any further steps to resolve Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman