DRN-2981273
The complaint
Mr S complains that Oplo PL Ltd (when it was trading as 1st Stop Personal Loans 
Limited) irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable loan. (To keep things 
simpler, Ill refer to the lender as 1st Stop).
What happened
1st Stop provided Mr S with a loan as follows:
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
Amount 
RepayableLoan status
5/4/2019 £10,000 60
Months£278.67 £16,720.20 Still running
Mr S complained that if 1st Stop had done more investigation it wouldnt have lent to him as it 
should have seen that the loan wasnt sustainably affordable for him.
When Mr S complained to 1st Stop it said it had conducted a full income and expenditure 
assessment with Mr S and carried out creditworthiness checks. It was satisfied that there 
were no signs of financial difficulty and bearing in mind the loan purpose was to consolidate 
other debt, the repayments were affordable and sustainable for Mr S. 
So 1st Stop didnt uphold his complaint and this led to Mr S bringing his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator didnt think that 1st Stop shouldve provided the loan and upheld Mr Ss 
complaint. He set out the steps 1st Stop needed to take to put things right. 
1st Stop disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 1st Stop mainly said that it cannot be held responsible for Mr S not using the 
surplus funds to reduce his indebtedness in line with the stated loan purpose. 
It said Mr Ss credit record showed he was in a manageable, stable financial situation and 
that 1st Stop had worked out affordability fairly and the loan was affordable on the basis of 
the information it had gathered. The complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. And having looked at the 
complaint afresh, I've come to the same overall outcome as our adjudicator. Ill explain 
why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mr Ss complaint.
1st Stop asked Mr S about his income and expenditure and also did its own credit checks to 
see how much Mr S was already paying towards servicing his existing debt and gain an 
understanding of his credit history.
There is disagreement between 1st Stop and our adjudicator about whether 1st Stops 
checks were reasonable and proportionate in the particular circumstances of this loan 
application. But, I dont need to make any findings on this point as it doesnt affect the 
outcome of this complaint. And like the adjudicator, I dont think 1st Stop made a fair 
lending decision when it lent to Mr S based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because I dont think 1st Stop thought carefully enough about what all the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Ss overall financial situation. 
1st Stop recorded a figure of around £1,550 for Mr Ss monthly earnings and took into 
account that he received a payment of £82.80 into his bank account each month.
After allowing for an amount of £810 in respect of his mortgage and normal monthly living 
costs and taking into account his debt consolidation plans, 1st Stop said this meant Mr S 
should still have had around £271 still available to spend after paying its loan. 
I've taken into account that 1st Stop says it was up to Mr S to use the loan to complete 
his planned debt consolidation after it paid his two large credit cards directly.   
But in any event, 1st Stop was aware that Mr S would still be paying £272 per month towards 
credit that was never part of the debt consolidation plans he discussed with 1st Stop 
alongside having to make the monthly repayments on his 1st Stop loan. And whilst 1st Stop has said it accounted for this, I dont think it properly considered how this impacted on the 
likelihood of the loan being sustainably affordable for Mr S over the whole loan term. On 
these figures alone, 1st Stop was aware (and has agreed) this would mean Mr S would be 
spending more than £550 each month servicing this debt alone  which was at least a third 
of his disposable income. 
I think our adjudicator was right to point out that this would be such a significant proportion of 
Mr Ss monthly income that 1st Stop ought to have realised it was unlikely that Mr S would 
be able to sustainably repay his loan over the five year term. And, in these circumstances, 
1st Stop should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair to lend to Mr S.
Ive thought carefully about everything 1st Stop has said in response to our adjudicators 
view. But 1st Stop was aware from its credit checks and discussions with Mr S that his total 
outstanding credit balance on unsecured loans and credit cards was around £17,508. So, 
(even if the loan 1st Stop provided had been used entirely for debt consolidation purposes), 
I dont think 1st Stop was able to safely say this wouldve improved Mr Ss overall position 
sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation. 
I think the scale of Mr Ss debts, compared to the much smaller value of the loan, would 
suggest that he would inevitably remain extensively indebted. And if the total costs of 
servicing all his debt were properly taken into account I think 1st Stop should have realised 
that, in reality, making the monthly repayments for this loan would be beyond Mr Ss means.
I dont agree with 1st Stops conclusion that Mr Ss repayment record on this loan means that 
it has been and continues to be sustainably affordable. For all the reasons above, I think 
1st Stop ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly lending was unlikely 
to help Mr S and more likely to potentially increase his indebtedness over the longer term. 
So, I am upholding Mr Ss complaint that he should not have been given this loan.
As Mr S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
1st Stop did wrong. So, I think 1st Stop needs to put things right.
I am sorry that Mr S has had a problem with debt. If he would like help to manage his 
finances, theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other support on 
our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.  
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to him. In line 
with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
If 1st Stop has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, 1st Stop should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 1st Stop should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr S keeping in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1st Stop to deduct tax from this interest. 1st Stop should 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Oplo PL Ltd (formerly trading as 1st Stop Personal Loans 
Limited) to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman