DRN-2228731
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not include his name on the bank statements for 
his business account and that this resulted in a loss of income.
What happened
Mr T says he was required to provide verification of his business details and name for a 
different financial business. His statements from Lloyds did not show his personal name  
just his trading name as a sole trader. He was unhappy at the time it would take to get a 
revised statement from Lloyds and says he had to visit a branch several times. His account 
at the other financial business was suspended for four days and he wants Lloyds to 
compensate him for the loss of income. 
Lloyds did not accept it made a mistake with the address. Mr T had been receiving payments 
from this other financial business to his account at Lloyds since December 2019 without any 
problems and it couldnt be accountable if the other business had changed its requirements. 
It offered to pay Mr Ts expenses for visiting a branch more than once. And it apologised if 
branch staff had given him the impression that it had made an error.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he didnt 
think Lloyds had made a mistake. And it had changed the statement details when Mr T had 
requested it do so. It had provided the details within its normal timescale.
Mr T did not agree and wanted an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said his account 
of what happened has not been considered. He went to the branch to tell Lloyds that his 
other account would be closed. So, he thought it was Lloyds responsibility that his account 
at the other financial business has been closed. If it had provided the letter he needed the 
first time he went to the branch this would not have happened and he lost money as a result. 
And the letter from the branch said it had made a mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has shown that it had been sending statements addressed to Mr Ts business trading 
name only. And Ive seen from the bank statements as Lloyds says that there have been 
credits from the other financial business in the past. Theres no evidence that Mr T has 
raised an issue with the way his statements were addressed before his first visit to the 
branch on 30 June 2020.
I dont doubt Mr T then told branch staff that he needed his statements to show his name. 
And he was told that this could take up to 10 days. I dont agree that Lloyds should take 
responsibility for what a different financial business decided to do or have to work to that 
other business timescales. 
Mr T didnt get what he needed when he went back to a branch on 3 July 2020. And Lloyds 
has shown it later provided a letter dated 6 July 2020. I appreciate that Mr T says that this 
was too late, and I understand his frustration about his loss of trading. Ive seen the branch 
letter and I can see that it said that it was an error that Mr Ts name was not added in the 
first place.
When Lloyds considered his complaint and gave its final word on things it accepted that it 
was disappointing that the branch couldnt give Mr T the information he needed after his 
first visit. And it offered to pay his expenses. It apologised that the branch led him to believe 
that this was an error in the first place. But it insisted that it hadnt been. 
Im forming my own view of this complaint. And Im afraid that I dont consider Lloyds was 
fairly responsible for any loss of business income for Mr T. I dont think it made an error with 
the statements, or that it can be responsible for the decision of a different financial business.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman