DRN-4023790
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined their claim on their 
home insurance policy following water damage to their lounge. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had home insurance that was underwritten by AXA. In June 2022 they made a 
claim after heavy rain caused water to ingress into the property causing damage to their 
lounge. 
AXA declined the claim as it said the weather conditions on the day didnt meet the policy 
definition of a storm, so cover wouldnt apply. 
Mr and Mrs H made a complaint as they didnt think this was fair. They said the rain in the 
area had been severe, as demonstrated by various news articles and weather reports. 
AXA didnt uphold the complaint. It said the policy definition of a storm requires there to have 
been at least 25mm of rain per hour or 55mph wind. It said its weather platform showed less 
than 10mm of rain per hour and winds of 28mph. It said as there hadnt been a storm there 
wasnt a peril that was covered by the policy so the claim wouldnt be covered. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs H brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that while she agreed 
there hadnt been conditions that met the policy definition of a storm, Mr and Mrs H had 
accidental damage cover as part of their policy and the internal damage should have been 
considered under this. 
She went on to say that while the policy limits accidental damage cover to that which was 
caused by the policyholder, their guests or vermin, she thought this was a significant term 
and it hadnt been made clear to Mr and Mrs H when they took the policy out. So she didnt 
think it fair for AXA to apply this limited definition. She therefore thought AXA should 
consider the claim for internal damage under the accidental damage cover, without applying 
the limited definition, and pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted our investigators outcome, however AXA didnt. As agreement 
hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA declined Mr and Mrs Hs claim as it says the weather in the area at the time didnt meet 
the policy definition of a storm. 
When a claim is made for damage caused by poor weather, this will usually be considered 
under the storm peril in the policy. Here, AXA provides a definition of the conditions required 
in order for the storm cover to apply:
A period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph, or rainfall of at least 25mm 
per hour, or snowfall of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or hail of such intensity that it damages 
hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Ive looked at the weather data tools we have available, as well as evidence provided by 
both AXA and Mr H and Im satisfied AXA made a fair decision to decline the claim under the 
storm peril in the policy. The requirement in the policy terms is an hourly rainfall of at least 
25mm. And the maximum hourly rainfall noted at the time of the damage was between 9 and 
10mm. 
I note Mr Hs comments about the reliability of the weather data available based on the 
placement of weather stations and their proximity to his home. However the weather data 
tool we use relies on satellites and radars and generally gives data from around 1km away 
from the post code entered. Further, across all the evidence Ive been provided Ive not seen 
anything that shows hourly rainfall close to 25mm. So Im satisfied AXA acted fairly by 
declining the claim under the storm peril.
However, where theres damage caused by bad weather and accidental damage is included 
in a policy this service would expect the internal damage to be considered under this. 
AXA has pointed out that the accidental damage cover in the policy is restricted to damage 
caused by You, Your guests, or Vermin. So cover wouldnt apply under this section either.
Accidental damage cover is an additional add on that consumers select in order to cover 
unforeseen damage within their home. Reducing this to just that caused by those listed, puts 
a significant limit on what is covered. I therefore consider the term to be both significant in its 
impact and unusual for home insurance policies.
Under guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) insurers are expected to 
highlight significant and unusual terms outside of the main policy terms. Ive looked at the 
policy schedule and in relation to accidental damage cover it confirms that full cover is 
included for both buildings and contents but includes no further detail. And in the Insurance 
Product Information Document that contains the key features and exclusions of the policy, it 
just states accidental damage as an optional extra with no further details as to limits or 
exclusions. 
Based on this, I dont think AXA made the significant and unusual term clear to Mr and Mrs 
H. I therefore dont think its fair or reasonable for it to rely on the unusual limitation of the 
cover. 
For this reason I agree with our investigator that it should consider Mr and Mrs Hs claim 
under the accidental damage cover in the policy, without applying the requirement for the 
damage to be caused by You, Your guests or Vermin.
Further, due to the unclear term in the policy, it has now taken a long time for Mr and Mrs H 
to have their claim fairly assessed. And this has caused them some distress and 
inconvenience. Due to this I agree with our investigator that it should pay £100 
compensation to apologise for this. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK 
Plc to:
Consider Mr and Mrs Hs claim under the accidental damage cover in the policy, 
without applying the requirement for the damage to be caused by You, Your guests 
or Vermin.
Pay Mr and Mrs H £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman