DRN-3581122
The complaint
Mr W has complained that ReAssure Limited hasnt honoured the terms of his original 
pension plan when it came to taking the benefits from it. Mr W has said that, due to the 
inconsistency, delays, and errors in providing information relating to his maturity benefits, 
hes been unable to take them.
What happened
On 1 August 1982, Mr W established a with-profits pension policy with American Life 
Insurance Company (ALICO). The policy included a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) of 
£106.80 per £1,000 per year to be paid annually in arrears. It also said that, upon death or 
maturity of the policy, the policyholder would receive a sum assured of £11,333.
In 2012, ALICO transferred some of its business to ReAssure, which included Mr Ws policy. 
At the time, the High Court determined that the policy would change from a with-profits fund 
to one with a guaranteed final value of £35,595.70, provided all the contributions were paid 
until July 2022. ReAssure has said that, in order to safeguard Mr Ws benefits, the sum 
assured of £11,333 was incorporated into that guaranteed value at that time, so that he 
wouldnt lose out.
Since 2016, Mr W contacted ReAssure on a number of occasions to initially query, and then 
complain about, the maturity date and maturity value of his pension. ReAssure issued a final 
response letter dated 16 February 2021 in which it explained that, in 2004, ALICO changed 
the terms of his policy regarding the maturity date. ReAssure also explained how the value 
of the fund was calculated prior to 2012.
Mr W remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service in March 2021.
Mr W continued corresponding with ReAssure after this point as he remained unhappy about 
the maturity date and maturity value  Mr W wished to begin taking his pension benefits on 
his 65th birthday in September 2021.
Mr W sent ReAssure a completed application form on 31 May 2021 to enable him to take his 
pension benefits from September 2021. He also asked ReAssure to honour the terms of the 
original policy with ALICO. However, Mr W didnt receive his pension in September 2021 as 
he remained unhappy with the explanations offered by ReAssure relating to various aspects 
of his pension policy. 
ReAssure issued several final response letters in response to Mr Ws complaint, beginning 
with that of 23 September 2021. 
The final response letters (and in particular that dated 23 September 2021) explained that, 
following the transfer of Mr Ws pension from ALICO to ReAssure in 2012, the benefits of his 
policy were changed from a with-profits basis to a guaranteed final benefit of £35,595.70, 
as long as Mr W maintained the monthly contributions until July 2022. ReAssure also 
provided a breakdown of the calculated maturity value. 
The benefits of the policy meant that Mr W could take an annuity with ReAssure with a GAR 
of £106 per £1,000 per year, provided that he take the pension annually in arrears, without a
guarantee period and no dependants income.
ReAssure also explained that Mr W could take a different annuity option, but if he did so, he
would lose the GAR. It said that Mr W could take his pension from his 65th birthday,
4 September 2021, since that was when he intended to start taking his pension, but
explained that the guaranteed value would be lower as he would not have received the 
bonus for the year 2021-2022. 
ReAssure also apologised for not responding to Mr W sooner and not giving him a full 
explanation of his benefits under the policy. It offered to pay him £300 as compensation for
the distress and inconvenience this caused.
Mr W remained unhappy as he said he hadnt been able to take his pension and so referred 
a further complaint to our service, which is the subject of this decision. Mr W said that 
ReAssure hadnt provided him with either the required, or the correct, information regarding 
his policy. 
When providing its business file on the complaints, including those relating to the maturity 
date and value, ReAssure objected to this service considering the complaints, saying that 
they had been referred to this service too late.
Ive considered, in a separate case, whether we could consider the complaints about the 
maturity date and value  with the latter aspect being subject to a provisional decision on its 
merits.
But the issues relating to Mr W seeking to take his retirement benefits and the provision of 
information by ReAssure with regard to this have been considered separately by an 
investigator and, having assessed the complaint, she said the following in summary:
Shed reviewed the information sent to Mr W by ReAssure after 31 May 2021, which 
was when hed first contacted it about taking his pension benefits.
She noted that ReAssure had provided the calculation of the maturity value up to 
2021  this being £35,243  and agreed to bring forward the maturity date to 4 
September 2021, which would be Mr Ws 65th birthday.
ReAssure had also confirmed that the GAR would be £106 per £1,000 of pension 
fund if the annuity was taken annually in arrears, and with no dependants income.
The investigator commented that, in a call shed had with Mr W, hed said that he 
wasnt taking his pension as ReAssure wasnt agreeing to the maturity value which 
Mr W believed should apply in accordance with the original policy terms.She wasnt therefore of the view that ReAssure had prevented Mr W from taking his 
pension. She considered that ReAssure was willing to pay Mr Ws annuity in 
accordance with the terms of the policy.
She noted that Mr W would like the policy to pay him retirement benefits on the 
original terms, but these had been amended and ratified by the High Court in 2012. 
And this service was unable to overrule or change that decision.
The investigator said that Mr W hadnt lost out financially as a result of the change in 
the policy terms  rather, he would receive the same benefits, but in a different form.
Mr W had told the investigator that ReAssure had sent him annuity quotations, and 
having reviewed these, she noted that it had set out three options for him to take his 
retirement benefits  one with the GAR applied, one with a guaranteed payment 
period, and one with a dependants income. And she didnt think that ReAssure had 
provided Mr W with incorrect information.
As such, the investigator concluded that ReAssure didnt need to do anything further to 
resolve the complaint.
Mr W disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
ReAssure had agreed that the normal maturity date of his policy was his 65th 
birthday, but that the last premium which would need to be paid was on 1 July 2022.
The conditions within the policy document set out that upon survival of the pensioner 
to the normal maturity date the company shall apply the benefit specified in the 
schedule and bonuses attaching thereto at that date to the granting of an Annuity at a 
rate not less than the guaranteed pension rate shown in the schedule.
The lowest bonus figure for the policy was stated as being £56,200, which was why 
he had assumed that the sum assured of £11,333 would be added to the guaranteed 
final benefit of £35,596.
There was no mention in the conditions that the GAR would be lower than £106 per 
£1,000 of pension pot.
ReAssure hadnt responded to his email of 7 May 2021, but after hed received a 
letter at the end of June 2021 telling him that it was time to think about taking the 
benefits from his policy, but with a pension fund which didnt correspond to his policy, 
he contacted ReAssure again but received no response.
ReAssure then tried to arrange annuity quotes through LV, but these bore no 
resemblance to the value of his policy at its maturity date. ReAssure then decided 
that it would provide Mr Ws annuity in house, but failed to do so from the policys 
maturity date of 4 September 2021.
In a subsequent meeting with a representative of ReAssure, the only aspect which 
was agreed was that the maturity date of the policy was 4 September 2021
According to the manner in which ReAssure was administering his policy, he wouldnt 
receive the benefit of his policy until he was 67.Mr W made further comments on the matter of the maturity value which he considered 
should apply to his policy. But I havent summarised these above for reasons which will 
become clear in my findings below.
Mr W then submitted further comments relating to what he considered to be ReAssures 
refusal to provide documents relating to the High Court decision in 2012. He also said that 
ReAssure was making up the way in which his pension would be paid, which wasnt in 
accordance with the original terms.
And then, in subsequent phone conversations, Mr W said that ReAssure hadnt provided him 
with the correct policy terms and that it kept changing them. 
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I would confirm that I can only consider the implementation of the policy 
benefits here and the quality of the information which was provided to Mr W relating to this. 
The matters relating to the maturity value and the maturity date have been addressed in a 
separate case. 
But I have thought carefully about what happened when Mr W was approaching his 65th 
birthday, and having done so, I agree that the provision of information relating to the policy 
should have been better. 
Mr W clearly still had questions relating to his policy value, the maturity date, and the 
manner in which the GAR would be applied. And these werent straightforward issues, due 
to the manner in which the policy was formatted  to the extent that, although the maturity 
date was Mr Ws 65th birthday (as I can see is agreed by both parties) the date up to which 
contributions needed to be paid to capitalise on complete bonus years, and so to receive 
the guaranteed final benefit of £35,595, was 1 July 2022.
I think the final response letter of 23 September 2021 explained this in sufficiently clear 
detail, and ReAssure said it would send Mr W revised annuity options based upon the policy 
benefits being vested on 4 September 2021, although the maturity value would reflect the 
fact that contributions hadnt been paid up to July 2022 - and therefore that the full bonus 
year hadnt been achieved  with a quoted amount slightly lower than the guaranteed final 
benefit of £35,243. 
It also offered to backdate the payments of Mr Ws annuity to 4 September 2021, and pay 
him £300 in respect of the errors in not answering his queries about how the maturity value 
had been calculated. 
Overall, I think this was a reasonable proposal. And although ReAssure conceded that 
mistakes had been made in the provision of information relating to his policy, I think the 
payment of £300 was proportionate, taking account of the repeated approaches Mr W had 
needed to make to ReAssure to receive the required information, and the impact that this 
would have had on him in terms of the uncertainty around his retirement provision.
Further options were then set out in subsequent correspondence from ReAssure, including 
Mr W paying enough to the policy so that the full bonus year contribution requirement would 
be satisfied, and so enabling him to capitalise on the guaranteed final benefit of £35,595.I appreciate that Mr W didnt accept ReAssures proposals, but my view is that, 
notwithstanding his ongoing view that the maturity value has been incorrectly calculated, 
which for the reasons set out above I cant consider in this decision, the proposals were fair.
I have then considered whether ReAssure was applying the terms of Mr Ws policy fairly in 
setting out that the GAR was only applicable if the annuity was taken annually in arrears, 
and with no dependants benefit.
The original policy schedule supplied by Mr W, in addition to confirming that contributions 
would be expected to be paid up to 1 July 2022, set out the following under section (3) of the 
policy conditions:
Upon survival of the Pensioner to the Normal Maturity Date, the Company shall apply the 
benefit specified in the Schedule and bonuses attaching thereto at that date to the granting 
of an annuity at a rate not less than the Guaranteed Pension Rate shown in the Schedule 
The annuity will be payable annually, the first instalment falling due one year after the 
Normal Retirement date, no payment being made after the death of the Pensioner.

The Pensioner may further elect (by giving notice in writing to the Company not later than 
one calendar month before the Normal Maturity Date) to convert the annuity not so 
commuted to a different annuity on his own life and in the case of a married Pensioner to a 
reversionary annuity payable on death to the spouse for the remainder of the lifetime of the 
spouse:
(i) by monthly quarterly or half-yearly instalments with the first instalment due one three or 
six months after the Normal Maturity Date respectively or on the Normal Maturity Date
(ii) with or without a guaranteed term of five years or ten years except that there will be no 
guaranteed term in respect of any reversionary annuity, and;
(iii) by level instalments or by instalments increasing at five per cent per annum compound, 
calculated from the Normal Maturity Date. (my emphasis)
So I think the policy schedule was clear that the GAR of £106 per £1,000 of pension fund 
would be payable if the annuity was paid annually in arrears, and with no dependants 
benefit. But if the policyholder wished to take the benefits in an alternative manner, a 
different annuity would be payable. 
And this is a fairly standard term in such contracts which contain GARs, which must, 
amongst other aspects, take into account the likely increased overall payment which the 
annuity provider would make for different provisions such as an ongoing dependants benefit 
beyond the death of the annuitant, or a guaranteed payment period.
And it would then be at the discretion of the policy/annuity provider as to the actual 
difference in the annuity which would be payable.
Overall, therefore, whilst my view is that ReAssure did make some mistakes in 
communicating with Mr W in 2021 about his policy, I think the proposals it put in place to 
remedy this were fair. And my further view is that it would be entitled to change the amount 
of annuity payable if Mr W wished to take the pension benefits in a different format to those 
specified as being applicable to the GAR.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman