DRN-1161716
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold 
them a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1998 when 
they applied for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W took out a mortgage and PPI policy with BOS in 1998. They said they were 
not told the policy was optional, they didnt need PPI because they had good sick pay 
benefits and savings. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because she thought it was suitable for them and 
that they had enough information to make a choice about it. 
Mr W and Mrs W disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again. They added again that they had significant sick pay and savings, no need for PPI 
and that it was not made clear that it was an optional product.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be a disappointing result for Mr W 
and Mrs W, so Ill explain why.
Mr W and Mrs W complain they were not told the policy was optional. However, I have seen 
copies of Mr W and Mrs Ws mortgage application and PPI application forms. The mortgage 
application form has a box headed Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Insurance and 
below that it says: Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance. 
This Yes option has been signed by Mr and Mrs W. There isnt a No option, but I can 
reasonably assume that Mr W and Mrs W could have left the whole section blank to decline 
PPI. I also noted the separate PPI application form - which was also completed either by or 
for them -  checked their eligibility to buy a policy, asked them both what monthly benefit was 
required and told them how much it would cost each month. This form was also signed by Mr 
W and Mrs W. So in these circumstances, I think BOS did make it clear to Mr W and Mrs W 
that PPI was a separate and optional product.
Mr W and Mrs W and BOS all agree the sale was advised. This means the policy had to be 
suitable for their financial needs and they had to have been given enough information which 
was clear, fair and not misleading.
I think the policy was suitable for them because they were both eligible to buy it; it was 
affordable at the time and they were not affected by the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions).I then looked at their circumstances at the time to see if they might still have found a benefit 
in having PPI. Mrs W would get sick pay, they both had savings and Mr W said he could get 
12 months sick pay from his employer  although I dont know if hed get his full salary for 
that period, or only part of his salary. So while he says he had 12 months sick pay and 
savings and didnt need PPI, the PPI could have paid out for up to 12 months in addition to 
any sick pay they might receive; the policy could also pay out if either Mr W or Mrs W was 
made unemployed or had an accident. So I think it was still a potentially useful policy and 
was of benefit to them. And I dont think their sick pay and savings made the policy 
unsuitable for them. 
I think BOS could have provided Mr W and Mrs W with more information about the PPI 
policy. But I also think that more information about the PPI cost and benefits is unlikely to 
have changed Mr W and Mrs Ws mind about taking it out. I say this because, having 
decided they chose the PPI because they wanted it, I don't think that any better 
information about the cost and benefits would have put them off from buying it. 
I would also have expected BOS to tell Mr W and Mrs W about the exclusions in the policy. 
However, even if they had been given a full list of exclusions, I dont think it would have put 
them off buying PPI as they were not affected by the main exclusions. 
Overall, I think the evidence suggests BOS probably did make it clear PPI was optional, it 
was most likely suitable for their needs and more information about it wouldnt have changed 
her mind about taking it out. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman