DRN-3498225
The complaint
Mr D has complained American Express Services Europe Limited placed a late payment 
marker on his personal card account.
What happened
Mr D holds personal and business accounts with AESEL. A statement was produced on 
10 May 2021 informing Mr D a minimum payment of £144 was due by 4 June 2021.
Mr D didnt make this payment until 12 June 2021 when it was confirmed on the phone that 
AESEL had received the payment of £299 Mr D was making at that moment. As the 
payment was more than a week overdue, AESEL placed a late payment marker on Mr Ds 
credit record and charged him a fee.
AESEL subsequently refunded the fee but wouldnt remove the marker. Mr D brought his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator didnt believe AESEL had done anything wrong. She could find no evidence 
to support Mr Ds belief that a direct debit had been set up on this account before one was 
set up on 12 June.
Mr D believed this was wrong. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The key aspect of this complaint is simple. Mr D believes a direct debit was set up on his 
personal account prior to the phone call on 12 June, when a direct debit was definitely set up 
for subsequent minimum payments.
Unfortunately I dont think the evidence supports Mr Ds belief. His statement of 10 May 
doesnt confirm any direct debit collection date, whereas standard practice  and shown on 
subsequent statements  would mean that if there was a direct debit, the date and amount of 
collection would be confirmed on the statement.
When Mr D spoke to AESEL on 12 June, it was confirmed that there was no pre-existing 
direct debit on this account. Mr D confirmed he wanted one set up and this was done for 
subsequent payments. This is clear from the phone call on 12 June.
AESEL has no previous calls relating to this account on this issue from Mr D. I know Mr D 
strongly believes he is correct, and the absence of evidence alone shouldnt mean that 
AESEL can lodge a late payment marker.
Im able to consider both evidence from a customer and a financial institution and balance 
that. AESEL has provided us with technical evidence and I have no reason to disregard this.
Despite my consideration of what Mr D has told us, Im satisfied there was no direct debit set 
up on this account before 12 June.  
AESEL is able to lodge a late payment marker when payment is received late. There is no 
dispute that Mr D didnt make a payment on this account until more than a week after the 
due date. I dont think AESEL has acted unreasonably. I wont be asking them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against 
American Express Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman