DRN-2884531
The complaint
Miss L complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) allowed her to deposit transactions to a 
gambling company, despite having a gambling block on her account. 
What happened
In September 2020 Miss L made several payments to a gambling merchant. She complained 
to Monzo as she was meant to have a gambling block on her account, but instead they had 
let all of the transactions go through. As a resolution to her complaint she would like a refund 
of all the payments made. 
Monzo explained that they allowed the transactions to go through as the merchant had 
identified itself as a business not associated with gambling, not because of a fault with 
Monzos system. 
They said the gambling block feature works by blocking merchants who identify themselves 
as being part of the gambling industry. This is done using their Merchant Category Code 
(MCC) which is set by Mastercard. If the merchants MCC is gambling related any 
transactions are blocked, but if its not, the payments are allowed to go through. 
Monzo explained the merchant used by Miss L used a code that identified it as a clothing 
and accessory shop meaning the payments werent automatically blocked. It was only in 
September 2020 that it was brought to their attention by a different customer. Following this, 
all future payments were manually blocked. 
Miss L has also said the transactions went through because she had used a virtual primary 
account number (PAN), and not her Monzo cards PAN. She also considered the 
transactions to be fraudulent as the merchant used the wrong MCC. 
Monzo explained the transactions would have gone through on either PAN, and it was only 
because the merchant had mis-declared their MCC that the payments hadnt been blocked. 
They also said the transactions couldnt be classed as fraudulent as Miss L had authorised 
them. They explained that if Miss L wanted a refund, she would need to contact the 
merchant directly, or she could let them know if she wanted to raise a dispute. 
Following Monzo blocking the payments to the first merchant, Miss L made payments to 
different gambling merchants as well. These payments were also allowed to go through. 
However when speaking with Monzo about the first merchant, Miss L didnt advise them of 
the names of the other merchants she had processed payments with. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Monzo had acted fairly. He explained that as the 
merchant hadnt used the correct MCC, there was little Monzo could do to block the 
transactions. He also explained that once Monzo were made aware of the merchant, they 
acted quickly to manually block any future transactions. 
Miss L disagreed. She explained that while all transactions couldnt be flagged, the amount 
and frequency of the ones she had made should have raised some alarm with Monzo. 
Our investigators opinion remained the same. He explained that during a call with Monzo, 
Miss L had the opportunity to let them know about the other merchants she had gambled 
with but didnt. Overall he felt Monzo hadnt done anything wrong as they wouldnt have 
been able to tell which transactions had been made for gambling purposes. 
Miss L disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I will 
explain why. 
When making my decision, I must decide whether or not Monzo have acted incorrectly. 
When a gambling block is put in place, Monzo put together a list of codes that let them 
identify gambling merchants. If a payment is made to one of these merchants, they do their 
best to block it and stop it going through. 
While I do appreciate it was very unfortunate that the incorrect MCC was used by the 
gambling merchant, I cant say that Monzo were at fault for not blocking the transactions, as 
they werent to know what they were. 
As soon as Monzo were made aware in September 2020, they acted quickly to manually 
block all future transactions. 
In relation to the PAN used by Miss L, Im satisfied that the transactions would have gone 
through regardless of which one she used. This is because the issue was solely with the 
MCC rather than how the payments were made. 
I also note that Miss L has said that the merchant has committed fraud by using the incorrect 
MCC. While I cant look into this in any detail, I would consider that as Miss L has confirmed 
she made and authorised the payments, knowing they were going to a gambling merchant, 
they wouldnt be considered fraudulent. However Miss L can raise this directly with the 
merchant if she wishes to. Monzo have also said they will raise a dispute on her behalf. 
In relation to the other transactions that were made, I am of the same view. The names of 
the merchants wouldnt indicate clearly that they were used for gambling. So it wouldnt be 
fair of me to say that Monzo should have blocked the transactions. I know that Miss L has 
said they were all the same merchant but with different names, however regardless of the 
different names, I dont think it would be reasonable for Monzo to spot they were used for 
gambling purposes. 
Overall, given everything, I havent seen anything to suggest that Monzo have made any 
errors here. I do empathise with Miss L and it is very unfortunate that the gambling merchant 
was using the wrong MCC. But it wouldnt be fair of me to say it was Monzos fault that the 
transactions went through. As soon as they became aware they blocked any future 
payments. 
Because of this, I wont be asking them to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman