DRN-3106312
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc hasnt made enough enquiries about their 
mortgage and the status of their repayment plan. They also feel it hasnt done enough to 
offer them alternative interest rates.
Mr and Mrs L are represented in bringing their complaint by a family member. But for clarity 
Ive largely just referred to Mr and Mrs L in my decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out an interest only mortgage with Santander in 2008. It had a fixed rate 
of interest until August 2011. After that point it reverted to Santanders standard variable rate 
(SVR).
Mr and Mrs L took a new fixed rate in 2018.
Mr and Mrs L complained more recently that Santander hadnt told them that they couldve 
requested new interest rate deals, sooner. So, they felt theyd lost out as they couldve had a 
better interest rate and paid less interest overall. They also said they felt Santander hadnt 
done what was required of it. They said it hadnt contacted them to discuss how they would 
be repaying the mortgage since it was taken out, to make sure that their plan was on track. 
And if it had, they couldve been making repayments towards the capital sooner. 
One of our Investigators looked into matters but didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. She said Santander had made Mr and Mrs L aware that their initial interest rate had 
expired. And it provided enough information, in particular in annual statements, about what 
they were being charged. So, they ought to have known they couldve requested a new rate 
if they wanted one. She also felt the annual statements included enough information about 
the importance of having a repayment plan and that Mr and Mrs L needed to make sure this 
was on track.
Mr and Mrs L did not agree that Santander had acted fairly. And they said they didnt think 
the information in the annual statements meant it had done what was required of it in terms 
of checking on the status of their plans to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. As Mr 
and Mrs L did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L have said they think Santander shouldve proactively made them aware that 
they could potentially apply for new interest rate deals. And theyve provided extracts of a 
recommendation by a third-party charity, indicating it thinks the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), should require businesses to do this. But I would note this is not 
guidance issued by the regulator, and there are no current requirements for business to do 
this. Rather this is a comment on what another organisation thinks should happen.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs L wouldve liked Santander to contact them directly to offer 
a new rate. But Santander is entitled to decide how it promotes alternative accounts and 
interest rates, at its own discretion. 
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer from 2008 which makes it clear that Mr and Mrs L 
have a fixed rate of interest until 2011. And Ive seen a copy of a letter Santander sent in 
August 2011 confirming the interest rate deal on their mortgage was ending and inviting 
them to contact Santander to discuss a new rate if they wanted one. So, I think Santander 
has done enough to make Mr and Mrs L aware that their interest rate deal had come to an 
end. And Im satisfied that, after this, their annual mortgage statements wouldve made them 
aware of the rate they were paying. And I think its reasonable that Santander wouldve 
expected Mr and Mrs L to approach it if they wanted to change their interest rate deal. And I 
dont think it was required to proactively promote rates to them or provide advice about this 
without this being requested.
In 2018 Santander, along with other lenders, did commit to contact some customers that 
were on relevant SVRs to discuss the options available to them by the end of that year. But 
this was only customers who were ineligible to take a new rate. I havent seen anything to 
suggest Mr and Mrs L were ineligible to take a new rate. And they took a new rate in August 
2018  confirming they were not ineligible. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Santander needed to do anything further to 
make Mr and Mrs L aware of alternate interest rate products that mayve been available to 
them.
Mr and Mrs L also think Santander needed to do more to check the status of their plan for 
repaying the mortgage at the end of the term. And if it had they couldve done more to 
address the capital balance, sooner.
Ive seen copies of the information included in Mr and Mrs Ls annual statements, setting out 
the importance of having a repayment plan in place and asking them to get in touch with 
Santander to discuss this if they thought they needed to. I think this, and the original 
mortgage offer, were clear that Mr and Mrs Ls repayments were not reducing the capital. 
And I think Santander has also provided clear information to Mr and Mrs L about the 
importance of a repayment plan. So, I think they shouldve been aware of how their 
mortgage was structured. And they couldve taken steps to begin addressing or repaying the 
capital at any stage.  I also think it was reasonable for Santander to assume that Mr and 
Mrs L were comfortable with the arrangements they had in place, as they didnt contact 
Santander after receiving these statements.
In 2014 the FCA brought in new rules, following its mortgage market review. One of these 
was that lenders entering into new interest only mortgages, after the date of the rules coming 
into effect, needed to carry out a review of the repayment strategy for clearing the mortgage 
balance, at least once during the life of the loan. This review needed to be carried out at a 
time where, if there was a problem with the repayment strategy, there was enough left of the 
mortgage term for this to potentially be addressed. And as part of that review the lender 
needed to contact the account holder.Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage was taken out before the mortgage market review. So, the relevant 
rule did not apply to their mortgage. With that said, I still think it wouldve been reasonable 
for Santander to carry out a review, even if it wasnt obliged to.
But Ive seen a copy of a letter Santander sent to Mr and Mrs L in August 2021, where it 
asked for details of their repayment plan. And I think this was it instigating a review of those 
plans. The letter was sent when, at that time, there were ten years remaining on the 
mortgage term. So, it appears Santander has instigated an appropriate review of the 
position, even though it wasnt required to.
With all this in mind, I think Santander has acted fairly and reasonably. It has provided clear 
information about the importance of a repayment arrangement on a regular basis and 
recently sought to review this. I dont think it was required to do anything else. So, I dont 
intend to require it to do anymore here. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman