DRN-2777471
The complaint
Mrs H and Mrs B complain that Family Assurance Friendly Society Limited (FAFSL) made a 
mistake when setting up a junior bond.
What happened
Mrs H applied for a junior bond for her grandchild in 2004. She set up two around the same 
time for each grandchild and selected that they run until each child turned 18. Mrs H paid in 
£10 per month. Recently it was discovered that one of the bonds ended after ten years 
rather than when Mrs H had instructed. This is the subject of this complaint. Mrs B, as the 
parent of the grandchild, is the legal owner of the bond and has given us authority to 
consider this complaint.
I sent out my provisional decision for this complaint on 7 April 2021, an extract of which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision. In this I explained that as it wasnt disputed 
that a mistake had occurred I focused on what FAFSL should do to put it right. I concluded 
that the mistake had caused a potential loss of growth as well as trouble and upset. I 
concluded that FAFSL should do the following:
- Calculate the loss of growth had the error not occurred in the method it had outlined 
previously. For avoidance of doubt this is
Value of G2s policy at maturity date less value of G1s policy when it matured 
less the difference in payments Mrs H made. 
- Pay Mrs B  as owner of the policy - £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Both FAFSL and Mrs B and Ms H agreed with the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed to my provisional decision my findings remain the same. Ive copied 
these below:
Theres no dispute that FAFSL has made an error. The application Mrs H completed was 
identical to the other, so each grandchild shouldve had a bond that lasted until they reached 
age 18. But this particular one was set up incorrectly and ended after ten years  in 2014. So 
Ive considered whether FAFSL has done enough to put things right. Having done so, I think 
it should do more. Ill explain why.
Financial Loss
There has been a financial loss here. Had there not been an error, Mrs H wouldve continued 
to pay in £10 per month until her grandchild (G1) turned 18. This means the bond wouldve 
had growth based on that amount. FAFSL has recognised this and has offered to put this 
right. As Mrs H applied for the same bond at the same time for another grandchild (G2) 
FAFSL put forward the following method to compensate for the lost growth.
Value of G2s policy at maturity date less value of G1s policy when it matured less 
the difference in payments Mrs H made. 
This would then show the loss of growth had the bond lasted until G1 was 18 years old and if 
Mrs H had made those payments. I think this is fair as FAFSL have an identical policy to 
compare it to.
I understand Mrs H and Mrs B dont think its fair to deduct the value of the payments that 
Mrs H missed. I understand its difficult to now make up for something that was a small 
monthly amount paid over a period of around eight years. But it wouldnt be reasonable to 
ask FAFSL to cover this amount as it was never paid into this particular bond. This will mean 
Mrs H and Mrs B will have to tell one grandchild that they are receiving less than the others, 
and Ill address compensation for this below. But the fact remains that Mrs H didnt pay this 
amount into the bond, so it wouldnt be right to ask FAFSL to cover this. But it is fair and 
reasonable for FAFSL to make up the difference in growth. So I think the method it has 
determined is fair and reasonable to account for financial loss caused by its mistake.
Trouble and upset
The error that FAFSL has made has no doubt caused some trouble and upset. Mrs B, as the 
owner of the policy, will now need to explain to her child that they wont be receiving as 
much as their siblings or cousins when they turn 18 years old. I can understand also that it 
will be upsetting to see Mrs H go through the difficulty knowing her grandchildren have been 
treated differently due to FAFSLs error.
In addition to this, the error has caused a lot of inconvenience in having to find out what went 
wrong here. So I think its appropriate for FAFSL to pay compensation for this. I think £150 is 
fair and reasonable to compensate for the trouble and upset the error has caused.
Putting things right
To put things right Family Assurance Friendly Society Limited must do the following:
- Calculate the loss of growth had the error not occurred in the method it had outlined 
previously. For avoidance of doubt this is
Value of G2s policy at maturity date less value of G1s policy when it matured 
less the difference in payments Mrs H made. 
- Pay Mrs B  as owner of the policy - £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Family Assurance Friendly Society 
Limited must follow the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman