DRN-2554706
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with two claims 
she made on a pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S first took out an annually renewable standard policy with RSA to cover her pet, 
running from 24 September 2016. The policy was renewed each year until 2019 when, 
rather than allowing the policy to renew from 24 September as she had in previous years, 
Miss S cancelled the policy early and opted to upgrade her cover to a premier policy with 
effect from 6 September 2019.
In October 2019, Miss S submitted a claim to RSA for treatment of a condition affecting the 
eyes known as nystagmus. In November 2019, she submitted a further claim for what her 
vet referred to on the claim form as Treatment for lethargy & blood tests. 
RSA considered the claims but decided that they werent payable. It believed that both 
conditions first occurred before the premier policy started and so werent covered. 
Unhappy with RSAs decision, Miss S referred a complaint to us. Our investigator wasnt 
able to resolve the complaint informally, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
In December 2020 I issued my provisional decision explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold 
the complaint. Essentially I found that, while Miss S was covered by a pet insurance policy 
provided by RSA when the claims arose, she hadnt renewed that policy. The difference was 
important because it meant the claims wouldnt continue to be covered by the policy that 
followed, in accordance with the terms of the cover. 
RSA agreed with my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Miss S, on 
the other hand, didnt agree and felt I hadnt properly taken into account the available 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
According to the policy terms, the cover:
Provides vet treatment for all conditions up to a total limit of £7,000 in each period 
of insurance. This means that you will be able to claim for ongoing illness or injuries 
provided you continue to renew your policy, with no time limit on how long vet 
treatment can last up to this limit.  
In the section What is not covered, the policy says RSA will not pay for:
any changes that you or your vet notices in your pets health or behaviour before 
this policy starts, we will not pay claims for these changes or any illness or injury that 
develop from these changes 
The policy defines period of insurance as 
12 months from the day cover starts to the day cover ends. First period of 
insurance is 12 months from the cover start date to the renewal date shown in your 
schedule. Subsequent periods of insurance are 12 months from the renewal date 
shown in your schedule. 
As I understand it, the above essentially means that conditions arising in one period of 
insurance can continue to be covered in subsequent periods of insurance but only if the 
relevant periods of insurance are followed by policy renewals.
The term renew isnt defined by the policy and so Ive considered its ordinary, everyday 
meaning in the context of the contract the parties have agreed on. That being the case, I 
believe renew suggests that the period of insurance should have continued immediately 
once the previous period of insurance had expired. I believe this is supported by the fact that 
Miss S schedule of cover from 2018 shows the period of insurance as 24 September 2018 
to 23 September 2019 and the renewal date as 24 September 2018. The schedule of cover 
from 2019, on the other hand, shows a cover start date of 6 September 2019 and the 
renewal date as 6 September 2020, indicating that was a new policy and wasnt simply a 
continuation of the previous one.
In this case, I can see that there was a cycle of policy expiry and renewal from the end of the 
first period of insurance in September 2017 to the second period of insurance in September 
2018. 
But what happened in September 2019 differed from what had gone before. In September 
2019, it seems Miss S instigated the early cancellation of the policy rather than allowing it to 
expire naturally. Although Miss S premier policy started immediately once the previous 
standard policy cancelled, in no reasonable sense of the word could that be described as a 
renewal of the policy. While Miss S remained covered by insurance, the start date changed 
as did the renewal date and level of cover.
All of this is important because of the events that went just before the start of the policy in 
September 2019. According to Miss S pets medical history, theyd been checked by the vet 
at the end of August 2019. According to the vets notes, the pet was very lethargic and 
withdrawn. Although the vet suggested investigating the lethargy with a blood test, Miss S 
decided to wait and see if there was any improvement. Ultimately, follow-up investigations 
took place in October 2019 and these formed part of Miss S claim. 
Regarding the other claim, Miss S pets medical history contains several references to 
nystagmus in August 2019. In summary, Miss S was advised to have her pet checked by an 
ophthalmologist/neurologist. While she agreed initially, she later told the hospital she was 
cancelling the appointment for financial reasons. Then on 5 September 2019, the day before 
Miss S premier policy began, she agreed for her pet to be referred to a neurologist for a 
specialist opinion. The appointment went ahead in October 2019.  
Given that these conditions first arose before the start of the new premier policy in 
September 2019  and that I dont consider the policy to be a renewal of the policy that went 
before it  I dont believe that RSAs obliged to accept the claims Miss S has made in 
relation to them. Taking everything into account, I dont consider that RSAs treated Miss S unfairly in 
deciding not to pay the claims. That said, RSA remains liable for any relevant costs incurred 
while the standard cover was in force, subject of course to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. 
I also remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision that RSA need not compensate 
Miss S for the way in which it handled the claims.
Im sorry that Miss S feels Ive not properly taken the available information into account. But I 
can assure both parties that Ive read the evidence provided by them both very carefully in 
reaching this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman