DRN-4176589
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the actions of Barclays Bank UK PLC after she fell victim to an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam. Mrs B is unhappy Barclays wont refund all the 
money she lost as part of the scam.
What happened
Mrs B had been using a dating website for many years when began speaking to the 
scammer at the beginning of March 2017. The scammer had told Mrs B that he lived in 
America and was a chief engineer. He said he had two houses in England and planned to 
return to England to live with her. Mrs B mainly communicated through text messages and 
emails. 
In April 2017, the scammer told Mrs B that he was at sea on his ship and needed money in 
order to fix parts of the ship. But he was unable to pay for the parts himself due to network 
issues. He gave her his online banking details and she saw that he had a balance of $2 
million in his account. So, Mrs B felt assured to send him the funds via international transfer. 
On 5 April 2021, she transferred £4,950 and on 7 April 2017 she transferred £4,750. A third 
payment of £4,750 was also sent but was returned unpaid. These payments were all sent to 
accounts the scammer directed her to.
The scammer then told Mrs B his daughter had been involved in an accident and he needed 
to pay for her medical bills. On 24 April 2017, Mrs B transferred £4,500 and on 3 May 2017 
she transferred a further £8,000. Mrs B believed she was transferring the money directly to 
the scammers daughters account.
Mrs B was contacted by Barclays in regard to the final payment where she explained to the 
advisor the money was for one of her relatives who had no insurance.
Mrs B realised the scammer was asking for more and more money and then realised he had 
been reported on the dating website as acting fraudulently. However, she was embarrassed 
she had fallen victim of a scam, so didnt report it to Barclays straight away. She also deleted 
all the conversations between her and the scammer.
Barclays has said that it agrees it failed to identify payments as out of character and provide 
an effective warning and acknowledges that it only intervened on one occasion where it 
requested the purpose of payments. The bank acknowledged that it didnt go on to question 
further which could have helped it to identify it was a scam.
However, Barclays went on to say Mrs B completely trusted the scammer and didnt conduct 
any checks on how legitimate he was. It said in the short period of time between meeting the 
scammer online and the scammer requesting funds there was a lack of due diligence 
conducted by Mrs B. Consequently, Barclays agreed to accept 50% liability of Mrs Bs total 
loss and refund £11,100. It also added compensatory interest at a rate of 8% interest, minus 
20% tax deductible (equating to £4,016.11). This was paid to Mrs B in December 2022.
Mrs Bs representative didnt feel a 50% refund was fair. It said it didnt agree that Mrs B 
didnt conduct any due diligence. It said, to Mrs B at least, the scam was very convincing. 
She searched the scammers name online but was unable to find anything. They spoke 
regularly over a few months to build up trust, occasionally speaking over the phone and 
regularly over messages. She had been given access to his account and saw he had 
$2million in his account, so was satisfied he had the funds to repay her. The representative 
felt that the scammer played on Mrs Bs vulnerabilities and as Barclays were the fraud 
experts it ought to have picked up on the unusual payments and questioned Mrs B further. 
So, the representative referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt the offer Barclays made was fair. Mrs Bs 
representative didnt agree and asked for the case to be referred to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, which 
I will go on to explain. Before I do so, I want to acknowledge that I understand my decision 
will be disappointing to Mrs B. But based on the evidence, I am persuaded the offer Barclays 
has made is fair in the circumstances. I will explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Mrs B authorised the payments in question. She sent five (one 
returned) international payments to the scammer. While I understand that Mrs B didnt intend 
for her money to go to a scammer, under the Payment Service Regulations 2009 Mrs B is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance as the payments were authorised by her. 
This remains the position unless there is sufficient evidence that Barclays should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to protect her, e.g. by failing to act on clear triggers of unusual 
or uncharacteristic activity on the account. 
To put it another way, Barclays has a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments, and 
one of the reasons for this is to prevent fraud and scams. Barclays needs to have systems in 
place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its consumers 
are at risk of fraud (amongst other things). With that in mind, Ive considered whether 
Barclays should have considered these payments as being so unusual or uncharacteristic 
that it ought to have given the bank sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud.
Barclays has recognised that it failed to identify payments as out of character and provide an 
effective warning. It accepts it could have done more to protect Mrs B and missed an 
opportunity to do so. But it also thought that Mrs B failed to complete due diligence and as 
such is partially liable.
However, its also important to note that Mrs Bs representative has explained that the 
reason there is no supplementary evidence to corroborate Mrs Bs testimony is due to the 
fact when she found out she had been sending money to a scammer she was extremely 
embarrassed and as such deleted the corresponding evidence. Also, the representative has 
said the scammer had built Mrs Bs trust and when Barclays did ask Mrs B what the transfer 
was for (£8,000 sent to the scammers daughter) Mrs B explained she was sending the 
money to her relative (which we know not to be true). Accordingly, I have considered the 
likeliness of Mrs B providing Barclays with the correct details for it to enact the appropriate 
intervention strategies. In other words, it becomes increasingly difficult for bank staff to 
pursue an effective line of questioning if it is not given accurate answers. 
With all this in mind, the key issue for me is to decide is whether it was fair to refund Mrs B 
50% of what she lost on the basis that Barclays says she was partially liable. As our 
investigator explained, its Barclays view that Mrs B didnt do her due diligence prior to 
transferring the funds. This is otherwise known as contributory negligence. Theres no doubt that this was a cruel and sophisticated scam and I certainly wouldnt be 
placing blame on Mrs B for this. Nonetheless, I am obliged to consider contributory 
negligence, and in doing so, the starting point is to think about what a reasonable person 
would be expected to do in the circumstances  and whether Mrs Bs actions fell below that.
Having reviewed the circumstances of the scam, I think there were some red flags. And 
when considering the accumulation of these warning signs I think its fair to conclude that 
Mrs B ought reasonably to have known something was wrong. 
Mrs Bs representative has explained that she met the scammer on a dating platform and the 
representative said she had been using the site on and off for many years. The 
representative also confirmed that Mrs B completed her own checks to verify the scammer 
by completing an internet search on his name (but couldnt see anything listed about him), 
received multiple pictures and spoke on the phone occasionally. However, the 
representative also said once the scammer started asking for more money and Mrs Bs 
savings had been depleted, she saw that the scammer had been reported on the dating site. 
Given the fact Mrs B was familiar with the dating site its reasonable to conclude that as part 
of the checks she carried out when trying to verify the scammer, she ought to have also 
checked the dating site. And if this had been done originally, its fair to conclude it would 
have prevented further payments being sent to the scammer as the scammer had been 
reported on the site.
Secondly, prior to Mrs B making the payment, the scammer sent Mrs B his account details 
(albeit, a fake account) showing her that he had $2 million or so in his account. Mrs B was 
obviously unaware that this was a fake account. I appreciate this assured Mrs B that the 
scammer had enough funds in his account to repay her. But given the fact Mrs B has the 
scammers details, I find it fair to say that most people would question whether it was safer 
(or at least easier and more logical) to simply proceed with the intended payment directly 
from the scammers account, considering it was for the purchase of goods for his own 
business. Especially given the fact she could see the scammers balance; he had enough 
money to make the payment and the reason he confirmed he couldnt make the payment 
was due to network failures. Yet, it was known to Mrs B at the time that he was still able to 
correspond with her via email and text messages (which also require an internet 
connection). So, I think its reasonable this ought to have raised concerns for Mrs B.
I appreciate Mrs Bs representative has defended this position by explaining if our client had 
tried to make a payment as you suggested it would have not worked as this was obviously 
not a real bank account and the representee went on to say they shouldnt be held 
responsible for not sending money from an account which didnt exist. However, I dont 
agree with this position. If Mrs B had attempted to make the payment, from the fake account, 
knowing she had good network connections, and the payment didnt go through (due to it 
being a fake account), I think this would more likely than not have raised suspicions on why 
the payment couldnt me made. And with that in mind, would have naturally cast doubt in 
Mrs Bs mind, whether that be regarding the funds available or the legitimacy of the account.
Thirdly, I have considered the second reason the scammer provided in order for Mrs B to 
transfer funds. The scammer told Mrs B that his daughter had been in an accident, and as a 
result suffered a brain injury. The funds were required to pay her medical fees as she had no 
medical insurance in place. Mrs B was told to send the funds direct to his daughters account 
 which she did. Again, Mrs B had access to the scammers account so could have 
attempted to make the payment directly from his account to his daughters, the scammer had 
said his daughter has suffered a serious brain injury, as such it seems reasonable to have 
questioned how his daughter would be able to pay the hospital considering the injuries she 
had sustained. Especially, considering the serious nature of the injuries that the scammer required urgent medical attention. Again, I think this ought reasonably to have raised some 
concerns regarding the scammers story and validity.
I accept that the scammer had spoken to Mrs B consistently over the four-week period prior 
to her making the first transfer. And I appreciate that this would have built a level of 
familiarity and to some extent trust. That said, Mrs B hadnt frequently spoken to him over 
the phone, hadnt met him in person and after researching him hadnt found information 
about him (to confirm he existed). So, this would be considered a relatively new relationship. 
And while I accept that Mrs Bs representative has said that she believed she was the 
closest person to him, given the fact she was an unlinked individual to the ship, most people 
would question why they were the most suitable person to organise payment to fix parts of a 
ship, over the insurer or other crew members. I think its reasonable to assume that in such a 
new relationship, why there wasnt other people more suitable closer to him or other 
members of the crew who could assist. 
Mrs Bs representative has said Mrs B was vulnerable and referred to the FCAs guidance 
for firms treating vulnerable consumers fairly. I have considered that Mrs B had lost her 
husband in 1997, her age and the fact she was lonely. Firstly, I would like to say I am sorry 
for Mrs Bs loss, I appreciate this would have been tough for her and I dont dispute that Mrs 
B was in fact lonely. 
That said, I have considered the combination of factors raised by the representative and 
having done so, Im not persuaded this would have impacted Mrs Bs capacity to think 
clearly about the scam, combined with the lack of evidence to demonstrate the business 
were aware of any other vulnerability Mrs B had. I say this because, while Mrs B had lost her 
husband, some 20 years had passed when she made the transfer. And while I agree that 
time passed doesnt necessarily ease a bereavement, or the fact she was lonely, Mrs B has 
made this service aware that she was continuing to go about her day to day duties with the 
capacity to think clearly.
Finally, I have considered the fact there were four separate payments, spread over a period 
of time, which would have allowed Mrs B the time to reflect. And taking into consideration the 
accumulation of warning signs I conclude that a reasonable person would have started to 
doubt the plausibility of the scammers story. So, I think she couldve done more to protect 
herself.
So, it follows that, in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that Barclays offer to 
accept 50% liability is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already accepted 50% liability and paid Mrs B £11,100 and 
statutory interest of 8% to settle the complaint: I find this is fair and reasonable for the 
reasons I have explained above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint but dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Jade RoweOmbudsman