DRN-3227635
The complaint
Mr D is complaining One Insurance Limited has declined a claim he made on his commercial 
vehicle insurance policy for the theft of his tools. 
What happened
Mr Ds tools were stolen from his van so he contacted One Insurance to claim for their loss, 
but One Insurance declined the claim because it said he didnt have tools cover. Mr D 
disputed this as he said hed received correspondence to say he did. One Insurance asked 
him to provide this. He forwarded One Insurance an email which he said showed he was told 
that one of the benefits of being insured by One Insurance is that he gets tools in transit 
cover.
One Insurance didnt think this was evidence he had tools cover and it provide a copy of the 
online process which it said Mr D had to choose to take out this cover, but it said he hadnt 
done so. However it offered him £150 in compensation for any confusion this had caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she didnt think there wasnt anything to 
show Mr D had taken out tools in transit cover. Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He 
said he specifically took out this insurance policy over other policies because he was told 
this policy provided tools in transit cover. He disputes there was an option to add it during 
the online process.
As Mr D didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr Ds insurance policy didnt cover theft of his tools from his van  this was an optional 
extra he could have taken out. Im satisfied the evidence provided suggests that, on balance, 
he didnt do so. The issue for me to decide is whether he was reasonably led to believe he 
had this cover and, if so, whether hes lost out as a result.
Ive considered the information Mr D has given, but Im not persuaded this is definitive 
evidence he had this cover. There are a couple of key observations which I think supports 
this. Firstly it sets out that the policy gives breakdown cover and legal cover for free, but it 
doesnt say tools in transit cover is free. This would suggest Mr D would have to choose to 
take this out  given there would be a cost to it. It seems to me that this sets out some of the 
benefits that a policyholder could have with the policy  it doesnt say he does have them.  
One Insurance has provided a copy of the online application process it says Mr D would 
have to complete. It says Mr D would have had to actively chose to take out tools in transit 
cover and decide what level of cover he would like. This supports what I said above that 
Mr D would have had to choose to take out tools in transit cover at an extra expense. And 
Im persuaded by what One Insurance has provided here. I havent seen anything to show 
that he chose to take it out.
I sympathise with Mr D that his tools were stolen and hes lost out as a result, but I cant say 
One Insurance is required to cover this loss.  One Insurance has offered Mr D £150 in 
compensation for any confusion its caused. I think this is more than reasonable as Im not 
persuaded it did anything wrong in this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think One Insurance Limiteds compensation offer of 
£150 is fair in all the circumstances of this complaint. It should pay this to Mr D directly if it 
hasnt already done so. I make no further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.  
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman