DRN-2723306
The complaint
Mr A complained about the actions of Oplo CF Ltd trading as 1st Stop Car Finance 
(Oplo) when it repossessed a car he was paying for under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
Oplo agreed credit of £8,390 for Mr A on 23 November 2018 via an intermediary in order 
for him to acquire a car. The total amount owed (including interest and fees) came to 
£12,822 which was to be repaid over 35 monthly instalments of £356 with a final payment 
of £375 (Ive rounded figures to the nearest pound).
The finance was granted under a conditional sale agreement meaning Mr A would own 
the car once it had been repaid. Oplo was the owner until that point and Mr A was, in 
essence, paying for the use of it. Mr A fell into arrears and the car was repossessed in 
July 2019 and subsequently sold.
Mr A complained to Oplo that the agreement had been mis-sold to him. He says he was 
told that he could vary the payments, paying more or less than the agreed monthly 
instalment and that he wouldnt have entered into the agreement had this not been the 
case. Mr A says that Oplo should not have repossessed the car when he struggled to 
meet his agreed repayments as he was attempting to clear the arrears and retain the car. 
Mr A also says that the intermediary installed a tracking device on the car which he feels 
was an invasion of his privacy.
Oplo says that it is not true that Mr A was told he could increase or decrease his 
repayments as it doesnt provide that type of agreement. The lender says that it followed 
the correct process prior to and during the repossession of the vehicle. Oplo hasnt 
commented on the presence of a tracking device in the car except to say that while it 
underwrote the finance agreement it didnt provide the car.
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint and, in addition to the above 
complaint points, also looked into whether or not it was fair of Oplo to have entered into 
the agreement with Mr A in the first place, given his apparent requirement for flexibility in 
his monthly repayments. Having reviewed everything, the investigator didnt recommend 
that any aspect of Mr As complaint be upheld. Mr A wasnt happy with this outcome and 
asked for his complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
I issued a provisional decision on the 11 March 2021 explaining why I thought Mr As 
complaint should be upheld in part. Mr A agreed with my decision, Oplo did not and said 
that:
it had confirmed Mr As hourly pay with his employer as £10.50 for 38 hours a 
week. It also confirmed that hed been there six months and calculated a take-
home monthly wage of £1,457 based on these figures using an online salary 
calculator.
it had considered the defaults on the credit report as well as the fraud marker. The 
marker was applied in 2015 for an account taken in 2013. The defaults were a credit 
card (defaulted in 2014), advance against income (also defaulted in 2014 and 
showing a zero balance as of January 2017) and a hire purchase (which had no 
default applied and the account was in query).
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) completed a review of its lending criteria 
in December 2017 and concluded that its lending assessments were robust and 
fit for purpose.
regarding comments relating to Mr A making underpayments, as previously stated, it 
has never offered the facility to make underpayments at the outset of the agreement; 
these are only offered as temporary forbearance options when customers require 
additional support. The comments made in relation to this aspect of the complaint are 
based on interpretation as its documentation was clear in terms of the minimum 
payments required each month. The comment made in February 2019 relating to 
underpayments was merely confirming  based on the nature of the complaint  that 
this was not something Oplo could offer and during this exchange the correct advice 
was given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. I have carefully considered what Oplo has said in its 
response to my provisional decision, including the information and additional call 
recordings it provided. 
Having done so, I am continuing to uphold Mr As complaint. I know this will be very 
disappointing for Oplo and I am sorry that this isnt the outcome it wanted. For 
completeness, I will include my provisional conclusions here as these form part of my final 
decision, and I will then address the specific points Oplo raised in its response. As before, 
where information is conflicting or incomplete, I need to make my decision on the balance 
of probabilities, which is what Ive done here.
As Id set out in my provisional decision, the FCA was the regulator when Mr A took out 
the agreement. The relevant rules and guidance at the time as set out in its Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) said that before entering into a credit agreement Oplo needed 
to check that Mr A could afford to meet his repayments as they fell due over the term, 
while meeting his other commitments and without having to borrow further or experience 
significant adverse consequences. Specifically it needed to take reasonable steps to 
determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of Mr As income and current 
nondiscretionary expenditure, which would also include expenditure for others.
The checks undertaken needed to be proportionate to the circumstances and sufficient to 
assess the risk to Mr A of not meeting the repayments, not just the risk to Oplo of 
recouping its money. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the 
greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit without 
difficulty. So, for example, Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying carry 
out more detailed checks the greater the risk to the consumer, for example if their income 
was low relative to the loan repayment or they needed to meet the repayment for several 
years.In addition, CONC 5.2A.35R states that A firm must not accept an application for 
credit under a regulated credit agreement where the firm knows or has reasonable 
cause to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in completing the application 
in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness assessment.
CONC 3.3.1R states that communications from firms must be clear, fair and not 
misleading. And, as Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act set out, as the creditor Oplo 
was responsible not only for the quality of the car but also for any negotiations that took 
place between the intermediary (effectively its agent) and Mr A about the car prior to the 
agreements inception.
Oplo also needed to take a proportionate and considered approach to a borrowers 
arrears difficulties. So when Mr A fell into arrears, Oplo should have given him the 
opportunity to repay the arrears, potentially deferring payment or accepting token 
payments for a time. And it needed to  clearly communicate what was happening with 
regard to setting up a repayment plan.
CONC 7.3.4R states that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties 
with forbearance and due consideration. And 7.3.5G explains that examples of 
forbearance could include deferment of payment of arrears or accepting token payments 
for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer to recover.
CONC 7.3.6G states that where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm 
should allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt. And 
CONC 7.3.14R states that a firm must not take disproportionate action against a 
customer in arrears or default.
The overarching requirement as set out in the FCAs principles for business is that 
Oplo needed to pay due regard to Mr As interests and treat him fairly.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr As case, I have considered 
the following questions:
did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr As application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the credit in a 
sustainable way? if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
overall, was it fair of Oplo to enter into the agreement with Mr A?
did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way, for example when 
Mr A fell into arrears?
Agreeing credit for Mr A
Oplo says it didnt carry out an income and expenditure analysis before agreeing credit 
for Mr A. His application for credit was auto approved based on his income and the 
lack of adverse information on his credit file. It provided a copy of Mr As application 
information along with a copy of the credit report produced at the time.
Mr As payslip for October 2018 showed a net monthly income of £1,273. Assuming hed 
been employed for five months would mean his monthly repayments would take up about 
28% of his net income, potentially for three years. Contact with his employer put his length 
of service at six months, reducing his average monthly wage to closer to about £1,060. I 
can see from the payslip that his leave was unpaid though he could earn commission.Ive looked through the credit report Oplo provided and Im afraid I cant agree that it 
shows no adverse information. Mr A had a credit card in default that it seems he wasnt 
making payments on, a defaulted short term loan (showing as paid) and sustained 
arrears on a hire purchase agreement. The latter had a balance of about £1,900 and with 
a delinquency date in December 2017 was less than a year old when the agreement 
started. There was also a fraud marker on the file.
I cant see that Oplo discussed Mr As credit record with him or took steps to understand 
his regular expenditure in order to reasonably assess his level of disposable income. But, 
given the information it did have, I think Oplo ought to have had serious concerns about 
Mr As ability to meet his repayments without getting into difficulty.
Other information Oplo could have accessed were the calls between Mr A and 
the intermediary. Oplo has provided four call recordings which Ive listened to. 
In the earliest call Mr A said that he had seen a car advertised at £4,750. He was advised 
by the intermediarys representative that not only was the car on sale privately and 
therefore unfinanceable, it was classed as a Category D i.e. an insurance write-off. Mr A 
said on the call that his budget was £5,000. He asked about overpayments, saying that 
hed like to repay at least £500 a month but could pay £1,000 as his pay was about 
£2,000. Mr A was told that the monthly epayments would be about £260 to £270 over two 
years. The representative said Thats going to be the case if you make the minimum 
repayments every month for the whole term. You make overpayments, you settle it off 
quicker, you dont have to worry about that too much.
Later that day in a second call Mr A said hed seen a car costing £8,390 and was 
advised that the repayments would be £355 a month over three years. Again he asked 
about overpayments and was reassured that he would be able to overpay. The next call 
was from a different representative to organise the agreement documents and present 
the terms and conditions. Mr A again sought, and was given, reassurance that he could 
overpay.
The next day, in another call, the representative starts by saying that he was surprised to 
receive a message from Mr A saying that the amount would be a bit of a commitment 
given hed said he wanted to pay the credit off as soon as possible. Mr A explained that 
his wife wanted him to buy a car that was about half the price of the one hed seen. Mr A 
then asked Is there anything for about £4,000?
In response Mr A was told that the pay-out for the finance was already underway and that 
he needed to say immediately if he wanted the process to be stopped. The representative 
said I can stop it but you need to tell me immediately and you need to be dead sure. To 
which Mr A replied that he wanted to run it past his wife and would call back straight away. 
The representative said that Mr A could tell his wife that he didnt have to make 
overpayments every month saying Remember you dont have to put overpayments 
down every single month, you can take a month of paying just the standard payment. The 
conversation then turned to delivery costs.
I can see how Mr A came to the understanding that he would be able to vary the amount 
set out in the agreement if he needed to, though it wasnt explicitly stated in the calls Ive 
listened to that he would be able to pay less than the agreed repayment. Ive also noted 
that Mr A wasnt required to pay a deposit or an advance payment.
Mr As first repayment was due on the 31 December 2018. A few days beforehand he 
emailed Oplo to ask if he could reduce his monthly payments to £250. He said Im due to 
be paying £350 a month back but want to change that of a monthly payment to £250 if thats possible it was discussed when taking out the finance that I would be able to change 
it or up payments if I wanted too. Can it be changed for £250 every 31st as arranged 
please. When he was told that wasnt possible he said .. when I took out the loan I was 
told I can pay more or less if I wanted to so why has this changed? I was told more if I 
wanted it to be less than three year period and if I couldnt manage it that month I could 
reduce it.
The customer notes provided by Oplo record the following in February 2019 [C] from 
[dealership] called today as he is investigating a complaint and wanted to know if the 
customer is able to make over payments and underpayments. Explained that he can 
make overpayments but he cant make underpayments unless he is in credit. This 
suggests to me that the intermediary wasnt sure of its information and that there were 
circumstances under which Mr A could have paid less than the agreed amount other than 
by arranging a repayment plan to manage financial difficulties. 
Leaving aside the question of whether or not Mr A received clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the credit agreement, I think these calls raise concern about the 
affordability of the agreement for him. Mr A originally chose a car costing less than 
£5,000. When this wasnt proceedable, he chose a more expensive car of the same make 
despite having said his budget was £5,000. He seemed unsure enough about proceeding 
with the credit agreement that he asked about the availability of a cheaper car of any 
make and wanted to discuss the matter again with his wife.
I think its debateable whether Oplo treated Mr A unfairly by entering into a conditional sale 
agreement with him based on the information it had available. It knew Mr A had recent 
problems managing credit, that the agreement would take up a significant proportion of his 
declared income, and Mr A had raised concerns about the cost of the car. At the least, I 
think Oplo ought to have inquired further into Mr As circumstances before agreeing credit 
for him.
Our investigator found that further checks would not have led to Oplo to decline credit 
however, I disagree. I dont think further information or documentation would have 
provided any assurance to Oplo that Mr A would be able to meet his repayments on time 
and without being significantly adversely impacted. 
Mr A has provided his bank statements from the time and information about his 
circumstances and expenses. (Ive noted that the account statements are for a basic 
bank account only open to people whod been made bankrupt or who werent eligible to 
open any other account with that particular bank. It didnt include an overdraft or a direct 
debit facility.) Our investigator reviewed the bank statements Mr A provided as a proxy 
for what Oplo would likely have found out had it looked into his expenditure in more 
detail. They found that it was difficult to work out exactly what Mr As expenses were and 
that Oplo would not have been able to conclude that the credit would be unaffordable.
I appreciate that some of the available information is conflicting and let me say at this 
point that I dont feel I fully understand Mr As circumstances. For example, Mr A had 
said in his application that he was single with no dependents, but it becomes clear on 
the call recordings and in the customer records that he was married. Hes told this 
Service that he has three dependent children and I can see payments to childcare on his 
bank statements. Mr A said he was working for a claims management company, though 
Oplos customer records shows hes also mentioned wording for a restaurant.
Regarding income - Mr A said on a call to Oplo that he was earning £2,000 though his 
payslip shows £1,273 net a month. His bank statements show transfers in from another 
account, which came to over £400 in September 2018 and £640 in November. Ive asked Mr A about these but he hasnt explained what they were. Ive assumed therefore that this 
is income, either from another job or from state benefits.
Regarding expenditure - Mr A told this Service that he spent about £400 on food, £200 on 
transport, £120 on insurance and £160 on utilities and other bills each month. He said he 
had other debts including a local authority fine, arrears on his water charges, and short 
term loan(s). Mr A also said he was paying weekly for homewares, for example carpets 
and furniture. I can identify some of these amounts on Mr As bank statements and its 
clear that he has underestimated his food and homeware spend. Altogether, including 
cash withdrawals, Mr A was spending about £1,600 a month on average around that 
time.
In his own words   with the funds coming in at the time and prior to getting the vehicle 
my outgoings were more or less greater than my income, whatever was being brought in 
was already being accounted for with everyday life. Even with this I tried to always keep 
up with my payments as well as my insurance but always feel behind as I only ever came 
out with my wage £1,000. Which is why I rang and asked to lower the payment to 
£200/£250 which I wouldve been more confident paying.
I dont know what Mr A would have told Oplo about his expenditure, had it asked about it. I 
dont know how it might have sought to verify any of the figures. Ive looked at Mr As bank 
statements as this is the information available to me. And, even without understanding 
everything about Mr As finances, I can see that he spent everything he had, mostly it 
seems on living costs. I cant see that Oplo would have been reassured that Mr A would 
have been able to meet his repayments as they fell due over the term of the loan had it 
sought to understand his expenditure in any detail.
Mr A didnt manage to keep to the terms of the agreement and fell into arrears. On 
balance, I think this was foreseeable and Oplo was irresponsible to have entered into the 
agreement with Mr A.
When Mr A fell into arrears
Mr A needed to pay £356 a month under the terms of the agreement. My summary of 
his account statement shows the following (payments highlighted):
Instalment Date Transaction Amount (£)
1 31/12/2018 Instalment due £350.76
31/12/2018 Returned DD -£350.76
17/01/2019 Arrears fee -£24.00
2 31/01/2019 Instalment due £350.76
31/01/2019 Returned DD -£350.76
01/02/2019 Payment £350.76
05/02/2019 Payment £49.32
3 07/02/2019 Instalment due -£350.76
28/02/2019 Payment £350.76
4 07/03/2019 Instalment due -£350.76
15/03/2019 Visit fee -£66.00
27/03/2019 Visit fee -£90.00
5 05/04/2019 Instalment due -£350.7613/04/2019 Arrears fee -£24.00
6 07/05/2019 Instalment due -£350.76
17/05/2019 Arrears fee -£24.00
31/05/2019 Payment £789.06
7 07/06/2019 Instalment due -£350.76
13/06/2019 Payment £98.64
05/07/2019 Instalment due -£350.76
9 07/08/2019 Instalment due -£350.76
30/08/2019 Collection fee -£42.00
30/08/2019 Collection fee -£294.00
30/08/2019 Sale £4,000.00
30/08/2019 Commission -£180.00
10 06/09/2019 Instalment due -£350.76
As mentioned, Mr A called before the first payment was due to ask if he could pay a 
lower amount. From then, Oplo was in frequent contact with Mr A by email and 
telephone. The lender explained that Mr A couldnt make reduced payments and 
provided telephone and banking details so Mr A could make payments having cancelled 
his direct debit arrangement. Mr A eventually made a payment in early February and 
paid again at the end of that month. However, he didnt make another payment until 
May, which meant that by then he owed over £1,000 consisting of three regular 
payments plus charges.
Mr A gave a number of reasons for non-payment: that he was working reduced hours due 
to health reasons and was being paid less than usual; hed recently changed jobs 
resulting in a gap in income, and he was out of the country on family matters for a time. I 
understand that although Mr A said he wanted to retain the car he didnt complete an 
income and expenditure form in order to set up a repayment plan. The customer notes 
record that Mr A offered to make ad-hoc payments several times but didnt manage to 
make them.
Oplo issued a default notice in late May 2019 and explained to Mr A that unless he paid 
his arrears in full by 11 June it would terminate the agreement. This prompted a large 
payment from Mr A but he didnt manage to clear the balance or meet his June payment. 
The agreement was terminated by Oplo on or around the 17 June and the car 
repossessed a month later.
Mr A says it was unfair of Oplo to terminate the agreement when he wanted to repay his 
arrears and retain his car. Having reviewed the customer records however, I cant say that 
Oplo didnt give Mr A reasonable opportunity to discuss an arrangement for his arrears or 
for the monthly repayments. It also seems from the notes that Oplo were clear with Mr A 
about what would happen if he didnt clear his arrears and meet his June payment.
Altogether, I dont find that Oplo treated Mr A without forbearance and due consideration. 
I can understand why Mr A feels unfairly treated as hed just made a large payment in 
May and Oplo terminated the agreement the following month. But in this case I dont think 
Oplos actions were disproportionate.
Mr A has also complained about the presence of a tracking device on the car. I 
understand that it was used to locate the car for repossession so I can see why Mr A would be unhappy about this. Oplo says it would have been installed by the intermediary 
but I dont know enough about this matter to say that the device was unfairly installed or 
used. I would expect that the intermediary to have told Mr A about any device. However, I 
dont think Mr A would have changed his mind about purchasing the car if this meant that 
a tracking device would be installed in it. I can see from his bank statements that his car 
insurance provider specialised in telematics insurance so it doesnt seem to me that 
providing information about the location or use of the car was an issue for Mr A when he 
entered into the agreement. And so I havent found that Oplo did anything wrong in this 
regard that caused detriment to Mr A.
Turning to the points Oplo made in response to my provisional conclusions as set out 
above  - firstly, regarding the regulator, it doesnt follow that a firm cannot have treated 
any consumer unfairly simply because it has been authorised and is regulated. This 
assumes that an authorised firms regulated activities are always implemented in a way 
that results in fair outcomes for all consumers. This is not the case, as the experience of 
this Service bears out.
As set out above, in addition to the information about hourly rates Oplo says it had from 
Mr As employer, it also had a copy of his payslip which showed that his take-home pay 
was less than its estimated amount of £1,457 and was potentially lower again in previous 
months given the year-to-date figures. As Mr As payslip is reflective of the hours worked 
and all deductions, I think this is the more reasonable information to rely on. 
Oplo said in its communication with this Service that no issues were found on the credit 
report it saw at the time of Mr As application. I disagreed with this interpretation because 
the report did show defaults and fraud markers. Its description of these tallies with mine 
set out above. 
These points do not change my view that, altogether and as explained above, Oplo 
should have looked into Mr As circumstances in more detail before agreeing credit for 
him on this occasion.  
Finally, I accept that Mr As agreement wasnt for a flexible credit product where the 
monthly repayments could be decreased and increased as required. However, I havent 
made any finding as to whether or not Mr A received clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the credit agreement. Having listened to the calls provided, Id found 
that they raised concern about the affordability of the agreement for him irrespective of 
what other conclusions might be drawn from them.
In summary, I am continuing to uphold Mr As complaint.
Putting things right
Putting Mr A back into the position he would have been in, had Oplo not agreed finance 
for him, means that he shouldnt be liable for the whole amount under the agreement. I 
understand Mr A repaid about £1,640 before the car was repossessed and sold. I dont 
know if he has paid anything since, either to Oplo or to a third-party debt collector.
I think its fair that Mr A pays something for the time he had the use of the car as there 
was likely to have been a cost to him in staying mobile without it. In this case, I 
understand that Mr A had the use of the car from the last week in November 2018 to 
mid-July 2019, about seven and a half months. Based on the above figure, Mr As paid 
more than £200 a month to have the car over that time.
I think the fairest way to put things right in this case is to consider what Mr A paid under the agreement as the cost to him of using the car and cap the amount he needs to repay 
at that. If hes made any payments above this amount, then they should be returned to 
him. And if Oplo has sold the debt then it will need to work with the current owner to put 
things right as Ive set out below.
In summary, Oplo should:
a) Cap the total amount Mr A needs to pay at £1,640; and
b) If Mr A has paid anything above this amount then this needs to be refunded 
to him along with 8% simple interest per annum*; and
c) Consider the agreement as settled; and
d) Remove all adverse information about this agreement from Mr As credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to take off tax from this interest. Oplo must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out I am upholding Mr As complaint in part against Oplo CF Ltd 
trading as 1st Stop Car Finance and require it to put things right for him as above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman