DRN-4023140
The complaint
Ms C complains about the time it took Domestic & General Insurance Plc to replace her 
dishwasher when it broke down and the level of customer service she received from them.
What happened
Ms C had cover for her dishwasher with D&G. She contacted D&G in June 2022 to make a 
claim as her dishwasher had broken down. An engineer attended on 16 June 2022 and Ms 
C says she was told parts needed to be ordered and this would take about two weeks. A 
further engineer attended on 6 July 2022 and according to D&Gs records he repaired the 
dishwasher. 
Ms C complained to D&G on 11 July 2022 as she said the dishwasher was still faulty and 
she wanted it to be written off. D&G didnt agree to this as they said their engineer had 
cleaned out the air chamber which had been blocked, tested the dishwasher, and it was 
working when he left.
Ms C logged another complaint on 20 July 2022 as she said she was told parts were needed 
for her dishwasher and shed been waiting for weeks to hear further. D&G agreed to write off 
her dishwasher. She was sent a link to order a replacement and delivery was arranged for 
24 July 2022. D&G also offered Ms C £45 for the inconvenience shed experienced. 
A new dishwasher was installed on 24 July 2022, but Ms C wasnt happy with it as it had an 
E energy rating, and she said shed been told the energy rating would be A++. After a 
number of calls Ms C made to D&G, they agreed to replace the dishwasher. But she was 
told that a machine with a D energy rating was the best they could provide. 
Ms C called D&G a number of further times about delivery of the replacement dishwasher. 
She became very frustrated during one call on 28 July 2022 as she felt the call handler was 
being unhelpful. She called him an idiot and he responded saying Youre an idiot. At this 
point Ms C terminated the call. She called back for confirmation of whether installation of the 
new dishwasher was included. She was told this wasnt noted on D&Gs system, it would be 
added, but this might change the delivery date for her new machine.
During a lot of the calls Ms C made to D&G she told them it was difficult to call as she was 
working and wasnt supposed to make or receive personal calls. She also said shed raised 
a number of complaints and been promised call backs which she didnt receive.
Ms C called D&G again on 1 August 2022 as the replacement dishwasher that had been 
delivered was damaged. She was also unhappy that the deliverymen had no shoe covers 
and had walked dirt through her house.
She called D&G again on 2 August 2022 to try and organise the delivery of the further 
replacement machine. This was a long call, lasting almost an hour, Ms C was clearly upset, 
and at certain points she was crying. She told D&G shed had to take another day off work to 
sort this out. She was transferred to a member of the product replacement team and asked if 
she could have a different make of dishwasher, as she didnt want to deal with the original 
manufacturers. This was agreed and a replacement machine was ordered for her. During 
this call she was told for the first time that energy ratings had been changed and A++ was 
now D. 
Ms C had to call D&G again on 13 August 2022 as the replacement dishwasher that had 
been delivered was black. She didnt accept the delivery as she said it wasnt what shed 
ordered or wanted, and the machine was taken away.
There was a further call on 15 August 2022 when Ms C called D&G wanting an upgraded 
dishwasher due to all the difficulties shed experienced. This was agreed and an order 
placed for the machine which had the quickest delivery. During this call Ms C was told again 
that due to a change in energy ratings an A++ rated machine was now D or E. 
When D&G responded to Ms Cs complaint, they apologised that shed received a faulty 
dishwasher, but said a replacement had been arranged and successfully installed. They 
apologised for the delays that had arisen and said shed receive a £50 goodwill payment 
within 5 working days.
Ms C didnt think the compensation D&G offered was enough, so she complained to our 
service. Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. He agreed 
that D&G hadnt handled Ms Cs claim well and shed received poor customer service. But 
he said shed received £389 compensation in the form of cash, upgrades, and waived fees. 
And he thought this was fair compensation for the poor service shed received. So he didnt 
ask D&G to do anything more. 
D&G accepted our investigators opinion, but Ms C didnt. She said D&G had on three 
occasions delivered a dishwasher that was the incorrect model or was damaged. Shed had 
to take time off work to wait for deliveries, D&G had said theyd waived an upgrade fee but 
the dishwasher wasnt upgraded and she felt our investigator hadnt considered 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed experienced.
The case then came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 28 February 
2023 and in it I said: -
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Cs first replacement dishwasher was installed on 24 July 2022. After it was installed Ms 
C checked the manual and was upset because the dishwasher had an E energy rating, 
when shed been told it was an A++.
Ms C called and spoke to D&G about her concerns about the energy rating of her new 
dishwasher. On 27 July 2022 she was asked if a D energy rating dishwasher would be 
acceptable as there werent many with a higher rating. 
It wasnt until a call on 2 August 2022 that Ms C was told that energy ratings had changed 
and an old A++ was equivalent to a new D rating. And during a further call on 15 August 
2022 when Ms C called to ask about an upgrade that she was told the old A++ rating was 
equivalent to the new D or E energy rating. 
Had Ms C been told when she contacted D&G on 24 July 2022 about the change in energy 
ratings, D&G could have reassured her that her replacement machine had an equivalent 
energy rating to her old one, and all the hours of calls she made, the faulty and incorrect 
deliveries and the stress and inconvenience she experienced could have been avoided. When sending their business file to us D&G commented that everyone knows about the 
chance in energy ratings for appliances. From March 2021 the energy range for appliances 
were simplified. The new range is from A to G. Appliances rated at A+++ using the old 
range, are likely to be B or C under the new range and those rated at A++ would be D or E.
Clearly Ms C wasnt aware of the new ratings and more importantly, neither were any of 
D&Gs call handlers who spoke to her before 2 August 2022. 
While D&G may have agreed to waive installation fees and provide Ms C with an upgraded 
dishwasher, multiple installations and an upgrade wouldnt have been required if theyd 
given her the correct information when she called them on 24 July 2022. So its not fair for 
these to be taken into account when considering the compensation D&G have offered Ms C.
Im aware that Ms C has told us D&G didnt provide her with an upgraded dishwasher. But 
an upgrade was discussed during her call to D&G on 15 August 2022. She was given the 
choice of three machines with upgraded specifications. And she chose the one that could be 
delivered the quickest. 
If I disregard the waived installation fees and the machine upgrade, D&G offered Ms C £45 
for the initial delay and inconvenience, before they agreed to replace the dishwasher. And a 
further £50 to apologise for the poor service shed received when they issued their final 
response letter.
Because of the way in which D&G handled Ms Cs claim shes had a make numerous calls 
to them to get the matter resolved. Its clear from listening to the calls that she found this 
frustrating and distressing. She was promised call backs which didnt happen, even though 
she told D&G it was difficult for her to make and receive calls at work. She had to take time 
off work for the delivery of dishwashers which were the either the wrong colour, or damaged 
when they were unpacked. And on occasion she had to deal with call handlers being rude 
and dismissive.
Taking everything into account I dont think D&G have offered Ms C adequate compensation 
for the poor customer service she received from them. And I think they should pay her a 
further £250 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Ms Cs complaint.
Since I issued my provisional decision D&G have told us they accept my findings. But we 
havent received any comments from Ms C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As D&G have indicated they accept my provisional decision, and Ms C hasnt commented on 
what Ive said, or provided any further evidence for me to consider, I dont see any reason to 
review my findings.
So my opinion remains that D&G havent offered Ms C adequate compensation for the poor 
customer service she received from them. And to put thing right I require them to pay her a 
further £250 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Ms Cs complaint about Domestic & General Insurance Plc.
And to put things right I require them to pay her a further £250 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience shes experienced as a result of the poor customer service they provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman