DRN-3570337
The complaint
Miss B complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGIC) 
unfairly declined a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 and I set out what happened as:
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only summarise it here.
In August 2021 Miss B took her dog to an emergency vet, having taken it to her own vets a 
few days earlier.
The dog was assessed and stayed at the vets for treatment over a few days.
Miss B settled the invoice from the vet and a claim was submitted to CGIC.
The claim form stated the condition treated was Upper Respiratory Tract Infection. 
CGIC declined the claim, it said it declined the claim as the policy terms state you must ensure 
your dog is vaccinated against kennel cough and the clinical notes confirm the dog hadnt 
been vaccinated for kennel cough.
Miss B complained to CGIC, she said the vets only thought it might be kennel cough but had 
investigated other causes of the symptoms the dog was experiencing.
Our investigator agreed that the dog had likely had kennel cough but felt CGIC hadnt done 
enough to evidence the exclusion applied to Miss Bs claim. And it had applied its terms 
unfairly in this case, so she required it to settle the claim.
CGIC disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman decide the case 
And I set out my reasoning as:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator.
I agree with our investigator that whilst the dog wasnt diagnosed with kennel cough the 
symptoms shown in the clinical records are consistent with kennel cough. The diagnosis was 
listed as respiratory tract infection or upper URTI, commonly referred to as kennel cough, in 
the clinical notes. And the dogs condition is described as upper respiratory tract infection by 
the vet on the claim form. The claim form also asked Miss B to describe her dogs condition 
and she answered this as kennel cough. So, on balance Im satisfied the condition the dog 
was suffering from was kennel cough.
Ive then gone on to consider if the policy terms are clear and if CGIC have applied them 
fairly.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises what is covered and what 
isnt covered by the policy, it says it is only intended to provide a summary of the main 
coverage and exclusions and is not personalised to your specific individual needs in any 
way. Complete pre-contractual and contractual information on the product is provided in your 
policy documentation. The IPID consists of 2 pages which follow immediately after the 
welcome letter within the policy document. And under the what is not insured section it 
states:- 
Illnesses that Your pet should be vaccinated for;
There is no dispute that the dog hadnt been vaccinated against kennel cough.
I have some sympathy with the view that the kennel cough vaccine isnt a routine or core 
vaccination that every dog should be vaccinated for. Miss B tells us her dog doesnt use 
kennels or socialise with other dogs. And I agree with our investigator that many veterinary 
bodies say this vaccine is usually recommended for dogs who spend time with other dogs. 
However, the IPID does set out it is only a summary, and the details are within the remainder 
of the policy document.
Under the General Conditions of the policy it sets out:-
As a minimum, Your dog should be vaccinated against distemper, hepatitis, 
leptospirosis, kennel cough, lung worm, heartworm and parvovirus.
If Your pet is not vaccinated, We will not pay any claims that result from any of the 
above Illnesses, unless the vaccination has failed.
We will request evidence of vaccinations to be provided by Your Vet.
Miss B had time to read her policy document within the 14 day cooling off period after she 
purchased it. And couldve reasonably been expected to check the policy and seen the 
exclusion before incurring all the vets fees.
I find it clear the policy will not pay for claims that result from kennel cough if the kennel 
cough vaccine hasnt been administered. And having determined the dog did have kennel 
cough, and it hadnt been vaccinated for this illness I think CGIC acted reasonably in 
declining the claim in the circumstances of this case.
I invited both parties to let me have their further comments.
Replies to the provisional findings
Miss B said shes had problems accessing emails when she took the policy out so hadnt 
been able to read the policy, so wasnt aware of the exclusion for kennel cough for 
unvaccinated dogs. She says she asked CGIC to send a paper copy, but she didnt receive 
one. And feels CGIC should pay her part or all of the vets fees she incurred.
CGIC made no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Miss Bs email to our investigator in which she said she recalled shed never 
received a paper copy of the policy document and that shed explained to GCIC that the 
email account  that she put down when she took out the policy was no longer up and 
running. Miss B applied for the policy in April 2021 and it went on risk on 1 May 2021. And Ive seen 
the welcome letter generated by CGIC. Whilst I dont doubt Miss B was having issues with 
accessing emails I find it reasonable that had she not received any documents from CGIC, 
having applied and paid for her pet insurance, she wouldve made further enquiries from the 
email address that was up and running. And have provided evidence of these enquiries. In 
the circumstances of this case Im satisfied GCIC has issued the policy documents, and Miss 
B had the opportunity to address any concerns in the months between applying for cover 
and making the claim.
 
Having reconsidered everything I still find it clear the policy will not pay for claims that result 
from kennel cough if the kennel cough vaccine hasnt been administered. And having 
determined the dog did have kennel cough, and it hadnt been vaccinated for this illness I 
think CGIC acted reasonably in declining the claim in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman