DRN-2834250
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Sainsburys Bank Plc decision to close her savings account. 
What happened
Mrs B had an existing savings account with Sainsburys which she hadnt used for some 
time. So in early September 2020, Sainsburys wrote to Mrs B to say that the account would 
be closed if she didnt pay money into her account by the 9 October 2020.
On 6 October, Mrs B called Sainsburys and asked for the inactive account to remain open. 
The call handler agreed to make a note on the system to say that although Mrs B couldnt 
access her online banking, she wanted the account to remain open.  
On 11 October, Mrs B emailed Sainsburys about an unrelated complaint. She asked that the 
gesture of goodwill payment (the payment) theyd offered her from this complaint was paid 
into her savings account and provided them with the account details.
In mid-October, Sainsburys sent Mrs B a statement saying her inactive account had been 
closed and the outstanding balance was being transferred to one of the banks holding 
accounts. In late October, Mrs B called Sainsburys to update her details and also asked 
what was happening with the inactive account as shed received a letter saying it been 
closed.
Sainsburys told Mrs B the payment had been made to her account on 12 October, but it 
hadnt been paid into the inactive account as shed requested, it had gone into another of 
Mrs Bs accounts. And although there was a note on the system to ask for the inactive 
account to remain open, it had been closed as there hadnt been any payments made to it 
before the deadline. Mrs B was unhappy as she was planning to use the payment as the 
credit to keep the account open. So she complained to Sainsburys.
Sainsburys upheld the complaint in part. They said although the payment hadnt been made 
into the inactive account as requested, their timescales for making the payment was three to 
five working days so there was no guarantee it would have been made in time to keep the 
account open. However, they agreed the payment had been made to the wrong account, so 
they offered Mrs B £25 for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs B didnt agree as she felt £25 wasnt enough for the inconvenience shed been caused, 
as she would now need to look for an alternative account. So she asked this service to look 
into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She thought Sainsburys had 
acted in-line with their terms and conditions for inactive accounts. She also thought that even 
if the payment had been made to the correct account it wouldnt have stopped the account 
being closed due to the timescales involved for making the payment. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She felt the payment to her account had been delayed intentionally and 
shed shown this by providing details of a complaint that her son who Ill call Mr B had 
previously raised. Mrs B felt the investigator hadnt sufficiently taken the timeline of Mr Bs 
complaint into account. 
So Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to look into her complaint, and the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I recognise Mrs B is unhappy her savings account with Sainsburys was closed, and that she 
feels this was because the payment she was expecting from them had been paid into the 
wrong account and this had been done intentionally. But I dont agree. I say this because 
Ive seen that Sainsburys wrote to Mrs B at the start of September 2020 to tell her that her 
account was inactive and therefore may be closed if she didnt take any action. 
Ive looked at the account general terms and conditions, and Ive seen that the actions 
Sainsburys took were in-line with section 7.5 Inactive Accounts which says If you havent 
paid money into or taken money out of your account for at least 3 years, then we can treat 
your account as inactive. If your account is treated as inactive, we will write to you. If we 
dont hear back from you, we may close your account. And these were the terms and 
conditions Mrs B agreed to when taking out her account. 
In the inactivity letter, Sainsburys explained that to keep the savings account open, Mrs B 
would need to pay money in, or take money out of her account by 9 October 2020. The letter 
also said, if no action was taken by this date, the account would be closed on Wednesday 14 
October. So whilst I recognise there was an issue with the payment being made into the 
account as Mrs B had asked, she also had several weeks prior to this where she could have 
undertaken a transaction on the account.
When Mrs B called Sainsburys on 6 October 2020 to update her contact details, she was 
supported on the call by her son Mr B who helps her with financial matters. Ive listened to 
the call and after both parties had discussed updating the contact details and related security 
matters  which Mr B was unhappy with - the duty manager explained to Mr B what would 
need to happen to keep the account open. 
The manager also explained a credit could be made over telephone banking to Mrs Bs 
account. They told Mr B this type of credit transaction wouldnt be affected even though 
Mrs B wasnt able to complete the change of details shed requested - and therefore couldnt 
make the withdrawal shed planned to. The manager also told Mr B a note could be added to 
the system to ask for the account to remain open - however this was an automated process 
so they couldnt say this would prevent the closure.
The manager said that because this was an automated process, the best thing to do to 
prevent the account closure would be to make a credit to the account. Mr B acknowledged 
and confirmed he understood this. Mr B also said he would look into what could be done to 
make the credit, so Im persuaded he knew either he or Mrs B would need to take some 
action themselves to prevent the account closure. 
Although I heard the call handler say she would add a note to the system to ask that Mrs Bs 
savings account remain open, I didnt hear her say this would be sufficient to keep the 
account open or that it would override the information she had already provided to Mr B about the account closure. So I cant say that Sainsburys didnt take Mrs Bs request into 
account or not action it accordingly. Ive listened to calls confirming they did take the steps 
as agreed, but these werent enough to prevent the automated process taking place. 
At this point, I also think its reasonable to believe that Mrs B didnt know she was going to 
be offered the payment by Sainsburys shortly after this call. So Mrs B would have been 
aware she needed to make another credit to the savings account for it to remain open. But I 
havent seen any evidence of this being attempted. 
Mrs B also spoke to a member of the Sainsburys complaint team around the 10 October, but 
she didnt explain that she needed to make a payment to the account to prevent it closing. 
So I think its reasonable they used their standard timescales and didnt take any expediated 
actions as they werent aware of the deadline Mrs B needed to meet. 
Ive seen that in their final response letter of 12 October 2020, Mrs B was told by Sainsburys 
the compensation payment had been paid on that day. So I recognise why Mrs B may have 
been confused when the payment wasnt credited to her account on that day. However, 
Sainsburys have told us their process for making payments is three to five working days  
which is a fairly common industry standard. So although the payment was put through on the 
12 October it didnt actually credit Mrs Bs account until 15 October. 
Mrs B is unhappy with these timescales. Shes provided us with Mr Bs bank statement and 
responses from Sainsburys from when he had a complaint with them. This shows a 
compensation payment was made into Mr Bs requested account on the same day. But it 
isnt in dispute that Mr Bs payment was processed quicker than Mrs Bs. Mrs B has already 
mentioned herself that Mr Bs complaint was the month prior to her own, so it may have 
been the workload was different for Sainsburys at that time - or the payment was processed 
by a different team. 
Either way the circumstances werent the same as Mrs Bs complaint, and this doesnt set a 
precedent that all payments should be made on the same day. It also doesnt mean Mrs B 
was treated unfairly or that there was an intentional delay here as Sainsburys have made the 
payment to Mrs B within their agreed timescales. 
I acknowledge Mrs B feels had the payment been made to the correct savings account that it 
would have remained open, but Im not persuaded thats the case. Sainsburys have told us 
the account was automatically closed at 12:00 on 14/15 October so regardless of the time 
the payment was processed on the 15 October, the account would already have been closed 
 and the payment would have been rejected. I think its also worth noting here that the 
original letter said a payment needed to be made by 9 October 2020, so even if it had been 
made on 12 October, this still wouldnt have prevented the account closing.
Therefore based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Sainsburys intentionally delayed 
the payment to Mrs Bs account as they acted within their agreed timescales and closed an 
inactive account in line with their term and conditions. Im also not persuaded there was a 
significant impact on Mrs B as she hadnt used the account for over five years. 
I recognise that Mrs B feels strongly about this and shell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think Sainsburys have done enough to put things right 
with the £25 compensation theyve offered. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
If Mrs B wishes to accept this offer, she should contact Sainsburys directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman