DRN-1563634
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. He says the PPI was 
added without his knowledge or consent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. BoS has 
provided a copy of Mr Ws application form and I can see from this that the PPI is 
presented as optional. Mr W signed specifically to say he wanted it, as well as 
signing the complete application.
 
BoS didnt give Mr a personal recommendation for the PPI, so it didnt need to check 
the PPI was right for him  but based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr W had 
some sick pay but the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than his full sick would have lasted. Mr W says he had substantial savings, but 
this is different to what he told BoS when they first investigated his complaint, so I 
couldnt take this into account without seeing evidence of those savings.
 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
 
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
 BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
 
To put that right, BoS has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including what he's said about it being added 
without his knowledge or consent and that he didnt need the cover, but these points dont 
change my decision.
what the business needs to do
BoS has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. BoS should also pay back to Mr W any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
BoS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr W the difference between 
what Mr W owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Mr W 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Plc  does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman