DRN-2193460
The complaint
 Mr B complains VW have unfairly made end of contract charges for refurbishment costs and 
extra days hire charges. He asks for them to be waived.
What happened
I set out the background of this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity, I will 
summarise the details of that decision below.
On 9 December 2015, Mr B took out a 3-year lease agreement with VW for a brand-new car. 
Towards the end of the lease agreement, Mr B contacted VW and asked to extend the lease 
period for a further 3 months to 13 March 2019. He says he was in the process of taking out 
another lease agreement with the dealership for a new car.
Mr B says he contacted VWs collection agents BCA, on 19 March 2019, to arrange 
collection of his old vehicle and explained he would be picking up the new car on 29 March 
2019, and his old vehicle could be inspected and collected from the dealership on the same 
day. He says BCA informed him it would do so.
Mr B says he later received a telephone call from BCA to advise it couldnt now complete the 
inspection and collection on 29 March and it re-arranged the date to 5 April 2019.
Mr B duly collected his new lease vehicle and left his old vehicle at the dealership.
Mr B says he received a telephone call on 5 April from a BCA inspector to advise him he 
was on the way to pick up the vehicle. Mr B says he was under the impression the vehicle 
was at his home address and so he informed him it was, as previously explained, at the 
dealership. Mr B says the inspector seemed quite put out, as he would have to travel back 
into the middle of Manchester to carry out his inspection. 
The inspection was carried out and the following seven damages were noted:
Bonnet  scratched £21.00
Front LH Door  scratched £21.00
Front RH Door  scratched £21.00
Front LH Tyre  cut £135.68
RH Front Wheel - damage £36.00
RH rear wheel  damage £36.00
LH Rear wheel  damage £36.00
The BCA inspector deemed all seven items to be outside the British Vehicle Renting and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines for fair wear and tear and Mr B was liable for them.
VW duly invoiced Mr B for the above charges and made an additional charge for extra days 
hire. VW say Mr B was due to return he vehicle on 13 March 2019, it appreciates he took out 
a new leasing arrangement and left the vehicle at the dealership. It agreed to waive 14 days 
additional hire on this basis, but as BCA didnt inspect the vehicle until 5 April 2019 and 
didnt collect it until 8 April 2019, Mr B remains liable for an additional 9 days hire.
Mr B complained to VW. He didnt feel the photographic evidence supported the 
refurbishment charges falling outside of fair wear and tear. He also made it clear he had 
contacted BCA and arranged the inspection and collection for 29 March, and it was BCA 
who had changed the date and time. He didnt feel it was fair that he should be penalised for 
their delay.
VW didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and said all the charges were correct and payable, so Mr 
B brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked into things for Mr B, he found 
the photographic evidence to be enough to show the damage was outside of fair wear and 
tear guidelines. But VW agreed to waive the LH rear wheel damage as the measuring 
indicator wasnt present in the photograph and although it believed the damage to be clear, it 
removed the charge as a gesture of goodwill. The investigator upheld the other six charges 
and explained that it was Mr Bs contractual obligation to ensure BCA collected the vehicle 
within the given timescales. In his view, he felt VW waiving 14 days extra hire charges and 
charging for an additional nine days was fair and reasonable and so he didnt ask it to do 
anything further.
Mr B disagreed. He agrees the damage to the LH door and the cut in the LH tyre fall 
outside of fair wear and tear but remains of the view the photographic evidence for the 
remaining charges do not show damage outside of fair wear and tear. He also feels very 
strongly that the extra days hire charges are most unfair as he did arrange inspection and 
collection of his old vehicle but says BCA couldnt attend the agreed date and he doesnt find 
it fair that he has been penalised for BCA changing the date. He asked for an ombudsman 
review.
I explained part of the dispute between the parties was about whether some or all the 
damage falls within the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA) fair wear 
and tear guidelines.  As it forms the basis of the complaint, I looked at each item of damage 
listed and the corresponding photographic evidence. For ease, I referred to each item 
separately.
Bonnet  scratched £21.00
I said the BVRLA fair wear and tear guide says the following about abrasions; "Scratches 
and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, relative to the vehicles age and mileage, and 
provided the primer or bare metal is not showing."
I found the scratches and marks, here, are well under 25mm. I appreciate the grey showing 
is deemed by the inspector to be primer, but I didnt find it conclusive. In my view there are 
other tiny grey marks in the photograph which could be dirt. The distance photograph of the 
bonnet doesnt show primer to the naked eye and as such I said I didnt agree this 
conclusively shows the marks are outside of fair wear and tear.
Front LH Door  scratched £21.00In my view, I agreed the scratch in this photograph clearly shows, although small, primer is 
visible and so Mr B is responsible for this charge.
Front RH Door  scratched £21.00
I didnt agree the photographic evidence for this charge was conclusive. In the distance 
photograph (image 6) the indicated scratch isnt visible. There is a dirty mark on the vehicle 
which is far more evident. The close-up photograph (image 7) is clearly a duplicate of the LH 
Door and so on balance, Im said I wasnt persuaded this scratch falls outside of fair wear 
and as such isnt chargeable. 
Front LH Tyre  cut £135.68
Both parties agreed this damage does fall outside of fair wear and tear and as such is 
payable by Mr B.
LH Rear wheel  damage £36.00
I looked carefully at the images of the alloy wheels and both show damage. The BVRLA fair 
wear and tear guide says; "Scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
wheel trim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. Any damage to the wheel spokes and the 
hub of the alloy is not acceptable
VWFS has waived this charge. It says the damage is clear but as a measuring tool hasnt 
been used by the inspector, it has removed the charge as a gesture of goodwill.
RH Front Wheel - damage £36.00
RH rear wheel  damage £36.00
I looked carefully at all the photographic evidence. There is no measuring tool in either of 
these photographs and the damage is on the circumference of the wheel trim and alloys. I 
cant see any damage to the spokes. On that basis, I said, the scuffs look below 50mm and I 
didnt agree they fell outside of the fair wear and charge.
In summary, I said the Front LH tyre charge and the Front LH door scratch are payable and 
total £156.68. I didnt find the remaining charges were conclusively evidenced as outside of 
fair wear and tear and I said they should be removed from the invoice.
I then looked at the extra days hire charges. Originally, Mr B was due to return the car on 13 
March 2019 but as he was collecting a new lease vehicle from VWFS he wanted to drop his 
old car and collect his new car on the same day, that being 29 March 2019. VWFS have 
waived any extra hire charges for this period. But, as BCA didnt inspect the car until 5 April 
2019 and then collected it on 8 April 2019, VWFS said there are additional days hire charges 
due.
I listened to the telephone call Mr B made to BCA on 19 March 2019. In it he very clearly 
says the car will be ready for inspection at the dealership from 9.30 am on 29 March 2019, 
giving it 10 days notice of where the car would be and when it would be ready for inspection 
and collection. I said I agreed with Mr B here, when I say, BCA were informed of where the car was and when it would be ready. It seems reasonable to me that Mr B would leave his 
old car at the dealership he was collecting a new car from. In informing BCA, Im persuaded 
he fulfilled his contractual responsibilities. If BCA, as the chosen agents of VWFS, failed to 
inspect the car for over a week or inform VWFS of that I said I didnt agree that Mr B should 
be held responsible and as such I didnt accept the additional days hire charges were fair.
I said I intended to ask VWFS to waive all charges except for the Front LH tyre charge and 
the Front LH door scratch which total £156.68. I invited both parties to make and further 
comments they wished me to consider before I made my final decision.
Mr B had no further submissions, he expressed his gratitude for the time taken to investigate 
his complaint and agreed to pay VWFS the revised charges of £156.68.
VWFS had no further submissions to make and accepted the findings in my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr B and VWFS for their responses to my provisional decision. Ive considered 
again, all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr B and VWFS havent provided any new information and both say they accept my 
findings within my provisional decision. It follows, I have reached the same conclusions for 
the same reasons as I did in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I direct Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as 
Volkswagen Finance to:
Waive all charges except for the Front LH tyre charge and the Front LH door scratch,
reducing the total payable to £156.68
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman