DRN-3963312
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt process transfers in and out of her 
account as quickly as they should have done.
What happened
On Friday 5 August 2022, at approximately 7.30pm, Ms C made an electronic deposit into 
her Shawbrook account. Ms C was expecting the deposit to be cleared into her account by 
Shawbrook that same day, but the money wasnt credited to her account until the next 
working day, Monday 8 August 2022. 
Ms C wasnt happy about this and had been worried that the money shed deposited into her 
account may have been lost. Ms C was also unhappy that a withdrawal from her account 
she instructed shortly afterwards also wasnt processed by Shawbrook until the next working 
day. So, she raised a complaint.
Shawbrook explained to Ms C that they hadnt acted out of line with their terms, which state 
that money movements such as those instructed by Ms C would be completed by the end of 
the following working day. Ms C wasnt satisfied with Shawbrooks response, so she referred 
her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Shawbrook had acted 
unfairly in how theyd processed the money movements. Ms C remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C feels that because she made the deposit to her account electronically, by transfer from 
another bank, it shouldnt matter that she made the deposit at the time she did  at 7:30pm  
and that Shawbrook should have credited the deposit to her account that same day.
In their response to Ms Cs complaint, Shawbrook highlighted the timescale for withdrawals 
as stated in their terms which state the timeframe for completion as being the next working 
day and confirmed that deposits are processed along the same lines. 
Ms C has referenced another section of Shawbrooks terms, which states that electronic 
payments  as her deposit was  are amounts received electronically by Shawbrook before 
the end of a working day and are cleared on the day of receipt with interest calculated from 
that day. 
But Ms C didnt instruct her deposit until approximately 7.30pm, which is after the working 
day  which traditionally ends at 5pm  had already ended. In response to this pointy, Ms C 
has said that she feels the electronic working day doesnt end at 5pm, as the traditional 
working day does. But Shawbrooks term doesnt refer to the electronic working day, but to 
the working day, and so I dont feel the argument that Ms C presents here is a valid one.
Finally, Ms C has provided a screenshot from Shawbrooks website which she feels confirms 
that electronic payments can be made during a 24-hour day. But the screenshot Ms C 
provides states that an online withdrawal needs to be requested before 21:30 on a working 
day in order to be credited by the end of the following working day  which I feel provides 
further confirmation that Shawbrook didnt process Ms Cs instructions outside of their terms.
Ultimately, I dont feel Shawbrook have done anything wrong here and Im satisfied that they 
processed both Ms Cs deposit and her withdrawal by the end of the next working day  as 
would be expected from their stated terms. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms C was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Shawbrook to take any further action. I trust that Ms C will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman