DRN-4230382
The complaint
Miss M complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited has unfairly terminated her loan 
account and passed the outstanding debt to a third party to collect.
What happened
Miss M had a mortgage-style student loan which Erudio bought from the original lender. Miss 
M had successfully deferred the student loan for several years. But after Erudio wrote to 
Miss M in 2021 to remind her about the deferment, Miss M didnt reply.
As Erudio didnt receive any reply, it ended the deferment period and asked Miss M to start 
repaying the student loan. Erudio sent various letters to the address it held on file, including 
letters telling her about the arrears and default. Miss M say she didnt see these letters, so 
the account defaulted and Erudio passed it to a third party which I will refer to as C to try 
and collect the outstanding debt.
Miss M says that in August 2022, she started to receive daily contact from C. She emailed 
Erudio to say that despite notifying it about a change of address in September 2021, shed 
not received any reply. Miss M wanted to continue deferring the loan and thought that Erudio 
should write the balance off. Miss M says Erudio didnt provide the documents she asked for.
After considering Miss Ms complaint, our investigator didnt think Erudio was at fault. In 
summary she said:
Erudio stopped sending deferment reminders by email in 2021
The evidence showed Erudio wrote to Miss M in October 2021 to say that the 
deferment period had opened
Erudio sent Miss M further reminders and after it didnt receive any response, it 
issued a default notice before terminating the account
Miss M didnt use a valid email address when she emailed Erudio on 10 September 
2021 to change her address
It was reasonable for Miss M to realise that Erudio hadnt responded to her change of 
address
Miss M should have been aware of the need to defer given shed done so several 
times before
£50 compensation for Erudios delay in dealing with her subject access request 
(SAR) was fair. 
Miss M was unhappy with the investigation outcome. Miss M said:
it was reasonable to use the regularly arriving emails as a reminder of deferment
theres a precedent for Erudio contacting customers by text message or allowing a 
grace period in certain circumstances, including when a customer has moved 
address
shes not seen any evidence that Erudio sent post to her previous address and had 
arranged with her landlord to forward post to her current address. Any destruction of 
mail is a crime
the email she used for Erudio in September 2021 was saved in her email system as 
one shed previously used
she wrote to Erudio so even if she used the wrong email address, there was no 
reason why it shouldnt have her current address on file. 
£50 wasnt fair compensation but that as this related to her SAR, it wasnt relevant to 
her complaint about passing the debt to a debt collection business without her 
knowledge
when she first signed her student loan agreement, it was regulated by the Consumer 
Credit Act but then the 1998 Student Loan Regulations replaced the key terms 
leading her to think her complaint should be referred to the independent assessor 
rather than the Financial Ombudsman Service
The debt is state barred
The FCA handbook says that if a customer fails to make an occasional payment, the 
lender should allow these payments to be made within the original term of the 
agreement
Our investigator sent Miss M a second investigation outcome to deal with the further 
information she provided.  Our investigator said:
Erudio had shown it sent deferment reminders to the address it held on file and that 
Erudio wasnt responsible for the delivery of these letters 
Erudio had no record of post being returned as undelivered
There was no evidence of Erudio giving Miss M the email address she used in 
September 2021 and that Erudios records showed Miss M previously used the 
correct email address
Given Miss Ms concerns about Erudios poor service, it wouldnt have been 
unreasonable for Miss M to follow up on her change of address when she didnt 
receive a response
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have the power to decide that a debt is 
statute barred so the investigator couldnt tell Erudio not to pursue repayment of the 
debt or to not use a third party debt collector.
Miss M remains unhappy with the investigation outcome. She says she tried to access the 
portal on 1 September 2021 after receiving a letter but couldnt access the portal. Miss M 
provided a copy of a change of address form which she says she sent to Erudio by post on 2 
September 2021.
Miss M says that Erudio has failed to respond to emails over several months in late 2022 and 2023. She thinks this shows that any fault in communication lies with Erudio rather than 
herself. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this where the evidence is inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That means Ill look at all the available evidence and 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Although Miss M says Erudio should have known shed moved, I dont agree. The email that 
Miss M sent in early September 2021, was sent to a non-existent email address. So, I cant 
find that Erudio received it and didnt action her request. I appreciate Miss M says the email 
address was saved in her email system but it isnt one that Erudio has ever used. I also note 
that Miss M had previously sent emails to the correct address so should have reasonably 
been aware of where to send the email.
Given the importance of Erudio having an up to date address for Miss M, I also think it would 
have been reasonable to expect her to follow up on the email of 10 September 2021. 
Particularly as the email that Miss M sent asked Erudio to confirm it had changed her 
address on the system or provide information about what else she needed to do.
I can see Miss M has told our investigator that shed made other attempts to update her 
address without success. Miss M provided a copy of a change of address form which she 
says she completed and returned to Erudio on 2 September 2021. Miss Ms handwritten 
comments on the form refer to previous attempts to update her address and an unsuccessful 
portal log in attempt. She also expresses concern that deferral request forms may have gone 
to her previous address.
I dont wish to appear disrespectful to Miss M but it seems unlikely that the change of 
address form was returned to Erudio on 2 September 2021. This is because the form was 
attached to a statement dated 1 September 2021. Even if the statement had arrived the next 
day, based on what Miss M says about her landlord forwarding post to her  I cant see how 
shed have received the statement on 2 September 2021. 
Regardless of what actually happened, Erudio doesnt have any record of receiving the 
returned address form. It also doesnt have any record of any earlier emails or calls from 
Miss M about her address. I would also have also reasonably expected Miss Ms email of 10 
September 2021 to reference the earlier failed attempts to update her address. 
If Miss M did complete and return the change of address form in early September 2021, it 
shows she was aware of the upcoming deferral window. So, I think it reasonable to assume 
that Miss M would take steps to ensure she completed the deferral process  as shed done 
several times previously. Although Erudio previously sent email reminders  I dont think this 
means it was obliged to continue to do so. 
Overall, I dont find it unreasonable that Erudio continued to write to Miss M at the address it 
held on file. I appreciate Miss M doesnt think Erudio did this as her previous landlord would 
have forwarded the letters. But the evidence from Erudio is that the letters were sent. It may 
be the case that Miss Ms former landlord didnt forward them on but I dont consider this 
was the fault of Erudio. It follows that I dont find Erudio made a mistake when it defaulted 
the loan or when it passed the debt to C.This service cant declare a debt to be unenforceable or statute barred  this would be for a 
court to decide. With that said, even if it were to be found that the debt wasnt enforceable, 
that doesnt mean the debt wouldnt still exist. Its just that Erudio wouldnt be able to take 
certain legal action to recover it.
As I dont find Erudio made a mistake with the handling of the loan account, I dont require it 
to write the debt off. As C is now managing collection of the outstanding debt, I recommend 
that Miss M makes contact if she hasnt already done so to try and work out an appropriate 
repayment plan. 
On the question of jurisdiction, my understanding is that Miss Ms loan was a regulated 
consumer credit fixed term student loan rather than an income contingent student loan. This 
means that the Financial Ombudsman Service is able to consider Miss Ms complaint. 
I understand that my decision is likely to disappoint Miss M but for all the reasons outlined 
above, I dont uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman