DRN-2447890
The complaint
Mr B complains that BUPA Insurance Limited unreasonably delayed refunding hospital fees 
hed paid out which were ultimately covered by his private medical insurance policy.
 
What happened
In January 2020, Mr B paid hospital fees for tests his wife underwent to check for lung 
cancer. Shortly afterwards, BUPA agreed to cover the costs of the tests under Mr Bs private 
medical insurance policy and paid the hospital. However, as Mr B had paid the hospital 
himself, it suggested that he should try and get the money back from the hospital. It also 
emailed the hospital and asked it to reimburse Mr B. The hospital didnt refund the money to 
him though, so Mr B complained to BUPA. He considered that itd wrongly turned down the 
claim in the first place and that therefore, it ought to refund him the money
BUPA accepted that Mr B had been waiting to be refunded for too long and that hed asked 
for call backs which hadnt been made. So it agreed to refund Mr B the total amount of the 
fees hed paid, together with interest on that amount and compensation of £200.
There was some delay in the payment being issued though, so Mr B asked us to look into 
his complaint.
Our investigator noted that BUPA had agreed to refund Mr B the money on 17 April 2020, 
but that it hadnt actually done so until 5 June 2020. He thought this was a further, 
unreasonable delay in settling Mr Bs claim. So he considered that BUPA should pay Mr B 
an additional £50 compensation and that it should send him an apology.
BUPA disagreed. It felt the £200 itd already offered was fair and reasonable and in line with 
our guidance. It did agree to pay Mr B a further £10 compensation and to send him an 
apology. 
Mr B didnt accept this offer, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
BUPA acknowledged in its final response letter of 17 April 2020 that Mr B had 
experienced an unreasonable delay in recovering the hospital fees hed paid out in 
January 2020. It also accepted that it hadnt provided him with promised call-backs, 
and it paid him both interest and compensation to recognise these errors;
I think then that Mr B was entitled to believe that hed be refunded the fees he paid 
out promptly. Instead, BUPA didnt make the refund payment into his account until 5 
June 2020  almost two months on. Given the further delays he experienced, Mr B 
brought his complaint to us to investigate. I think the additional delays caused him 
further unnecessary frustration and inconvenience. While I think the additional 
frustration and inconvenience is likely to have been modest, I dont think £10 
adequately compensates for it;
In addition, Mr Bs told us he had to take out an overdraft to cover the hospital fees, 
which had caused him some embarrassment. The additional delay in refunding the 
money would likely have meant that he wasnt able to repay the overdraft for some 
weeks after he thought hed have been able to. Even if this wasnt the case though, I 
still wouldnt think that £10 was sufficient additional compensation to recognise the 
further delay.
For these reasons, I think its appropriate for BUPA to recognise the additional frustration 
and delay it caused Mr B and for it to pay him a further £50 compensation on top of the £200 
its already paid him. It must also send Mr B a letter or email apologising for the service its 
provided.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct BUPA Insurance Limited to pay Mr B £50 compensation. I further direct it to send a 
letter or email of apology to him for the service it provided.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman