DRN-1951508
The complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. I issued a provisional 
decision for the complaint on 26 May 2020. Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr P but I didnt think it was suitable for him. Mr P 
had said from the outset of his complaint that he was entitled to generous sickness 
benefits from his employer. Hed said he was entitled to 26 weeks full pay, and that 
after that his employers income protection policy paid 50% of his salary for five 
years.
Mr P had provided extracts from his employers income protection arrangements. 
They werent dated, so I could be sure that the provisions applied when Mr P bought 
the PPI. But I was mindful of Mr Ps consistent testimony. And given the amount of 
time that had passed since the sale, I didnt think it was fair or reasonable to expect 
Mr P to provide a copy of the sickness policy that was in force at the time.
I also kept in mind Mr Ps employer at the time, and I considered it likely it wouldve 
provided the benefits Mr P referred to.
So overall, I didnt think it was unreasonable to accept what Mr P had told me about 
the sickness benefits he said was entitled to from his employer.
In light of those benefits, I thought Mr P couldve managed without the PPI for long 
enough not to really need it. I didnt think Mr P wouldve bought the policy if Lloyds 
had made it clear it wasnt suitable. So I thought Mr P had lost out because of what 
the business did wrong.
Mr P said he accepted my provisional findings.
Lloyds didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
I the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart from 
the position set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Lloyds should put Mr P in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. Lloyds should find out how much Mr P would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Lloyds should then refund the difference between what Mr P owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. Lloyds should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr P would have 
owed when he closed his account - from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Lloyds works out what Mr P would have owed each month without PPI  Mr P 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, Lloyds should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr P 
wouldve owed Lloyds something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. Lloyds should tell Mr P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Lloyds Bank plc to pay compensation to 
Mr P in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September  2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman