DRN-3829494
The complaint
Mr R complains that Chubb European Group SE provided him with a faulty phone following 
an insurance claim.
What happened
Mr R had a mobile phone insured with Chubb. He made a claim on his policy for a 
replacement in April 2022, and received it in May 2022. Unfortunately, Mr Rs replacement 
phone was dropped in water in June 2022, and wouldnt work thereafter.
Mr R contacted Chubb about this, he said the phone should have been water resistant and 
therefore must have been faulty for it to have been damaged in such a way. Mr R requested 
a replacement.
Chubb disagreed, they said he could claim on his policy a second time but that the 
replacement they gave him was a refurbished model and that water resistance couldnt be 
guaranteed in any event.
Mr R was unhappy that a second claim would incur a £100 excess, he also said he spent 
around £20 on phone calls trying to resolve the matter.
An investigator here looked into things. They said they thought Mr Rs replacement phone 
ought to have been water resistant and that it followed that the replacement must have been 
faulty  because it wasnt water resistant. They said the second excess should be refunded, 
along with the call charges.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the matter was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, in which I explained the following:
The first place to start is the policy terms. They say:
"The replacement will be from refurbished stock that has been tested and is fully functional."
I consider Chubb to have suitably replaced Mr Rs phone, given the fault only occurred after 
it had been dropped in water. However, I have thought carefully about Mr Rs argument that 
it must have been faulty due to the manufacturers statement on water resistance.
The manufacturer says the phone is:
splash, water, and dust resistant and was tested under controlled laboratory conditions with 
a rating of IP68 under IEC standard 60529 (maximum depth of 6 metres up to 30 minutes). 
Splash, water, and dust resistance are not permanent conditions and resistance might 
decrease as a result of normal wear. Do not attempt to charge a wet [phone]; refer to the 
user guide for cleaning and drying instructions. Liquid damage not covered under warranty.
Mr R says it was only under water by approximately one metre for around five minutes, and 
was therefore well inside the threshold stated above.
But tellingly, the above statement says that water resistance isnt a permanent condition, and 
may decrease as a result of normal wear. Bearing in mind that Mr Rs replacement phone 
wasnt new  it was refurbished  I dont think it would be unreasonable to expect the 
resistance to have decreased. And that may be particularly so with it having been 
refurbished.
I also think its telling that the manufacturers own warranty doesnt cover liquid damage 
either, that suggests to me that even they have doubts about how long the phones 
resistance will last for.
Turning back to the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy, I note it says the phone will be 
fully functional. I dont consider water resistance to be a function. Rather Id call it a feature, 
because it isnt required for the phone to work. Its unfortunate that Mr Rs phone suffered 
water damage so soon after he received it, but I dont think Chubb has treated him unfairly.
And while I appreciate he may have spent money on phone calls, trying to resolve the 
matter, the fact I dont think he was treated unfairly means I wont be upholding that aspect 
either. Its also generally expected that time and cost will be incurred by consumers as part 
of a claim.
Chubb replied to say they were happy with my provisional decision. Mr R disagreed though, 
he referred to Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) rules, the
Consumer Goods Act 2015, the manufacturers website and Which?. Mr R maintained his 
argument that the phone ought to have been water resistant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought carefully about what Mr R has said, I remain of the opinion that Chubb has 
not treated him unfairly  Ill explain why.
Two of the points Mr R has made, referencing ICOBS, are in relation to the sale of his policy. 
This case relates to the provision of a replacement phone following an insurance claim.
If Mr R considers the policy to have been mis-sold to him then he would need to raise that as 
a separate matter.
The third point Mr R makes in relation to ICOBS is about the claim handling. His initial claim 
was, in my opinion, handled quickly and fairly. It is the post claim handling issue  the 
alleged faulty handset  which he is unhappy with. And Ive already explained why he was 
treated fairly in that respect.
Turning to the Consumer Goods Act 2015, Mr R says he is entitled to expect a fully 
functional phone which had been tested and restored by professionals. I see no reason to 
find that he didnt receive a suitably refurbished phone. No faults were reported until it had 
been dropped into water. A refurbished phone is described as being fully functional, it is not 
described as being water resistant. Even a new phone, according to the manufacturer, 
carries no warranty in relation to lasting water resistance. And I regard that as a feature  not 
a function. I see no reason why a refurbished phone should be expected to have any greater 
resistance than a new one.
In relation to Which?, Mr R says they advise a refurbished phone will have been checked 
over by professionals to ensure its in top working order and good physical condition. You 
should also get a guarantee or warranty of some sort, as refurbished phones are usually sold by a professional retailer.
But, as Ive said, I find no reason to suggest his phone wasnt checked over in such a way 
because no faults were found earlier. And even if it was checked over  just as new ones are 
purported to be  new phones arent seemingly guaranteed to be water resistant either. So, I 
dont think its unreasonable to say a refurbished one being the same in that respect is of 
any detriment to the consumer.
Overall, I maintain that Mr R hasnt been treated unfairly by Chubb.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman