DRN-3316680
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as B has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc mis-sold its 
business interruption insurance policy. 
Mr M, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf. B is also represented in 
bringing this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all comments and actions of the 
representative as being those of B. 
What happened
In 2017 B bought a business interruption insurance policy from AXA over the phone. The 
policy renewed annually and in 2020 B looked to claim on its policy after its business was 
impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. AXA turned down 
the claim as they said the policy covered business interruption as a result of a specified list 
of diseases, which didnt include Covid-19. 
B thought AXA had mis-sold the policy and brought its complaint to us. In summary it said:
AXA had mis-sold the policy. B said it entered into the contract on the understanding 
that the policy covered interruption due to any infectious or contagious disease. 
AXA is in breach of contract as it intended to provide B with a policy which provided 
cover for interruption due to any infectious or contagious disease. 
The list of covered diseases in the policy should have contained SARS and its 
reasonable for B to believe the policy would cover SARS. 
AXA failed to ensure the suitability of its advice when recommending a policy.
AXA didnt provide information in a way that was accurate, clear, fair and not 
misleading in a way to enable B to make an informed decision. 
AXA should have expressly stated that SARS was excluded by the policy. 
AXA should have made it clear that the policy no longer covered unknown diseases.
AXA failed to take reasonable steps to ensure that B knew it was responsible for 
deciding if a policy met its demands and needs.
AXA failed to propose a contract which was consistent with Bs demands and needs. 
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. In summary, 
he didnt think the policy had been mis-sold and he thought that the policy clearly set out the 
list of diseases it covered, both at the sale and each renewal. He didnt think AXA needed to 
either cover SARS or highlight that the policy didnt cover unknown diseases. He also said 
that even if AXA should have been clearer, he didnt think B would have bought a different 
policy as there wasnt any indication it wanted wider cover for disease. 
B asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said disease cover was particularly relevant to its 
business and therefore something it would want to have insured against. B said there were 
other policies available in 2017 which would have covered Covid-19 despite it being an 
unknown disease. B also said that the sales call and policy documents were unclear and 
created ambiguity. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling a policy AXA has a responsibility to specify a customers demands and needs 
and propose a policy which is consistent with them. As this was an advised sale AXA has a 
duty to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. It also has a general duty 
to provide information that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ive listened to the sales call from 2017. AXA gave a brief summary of business interruption 
cover and I didnt hear anything to indicate that AXA told B it was covered for any human 
infectious or contagious diseases or that B let AXA know this was a particular concern for it. 
At one point in the call there was a discussion around the suitability of a policy. I think its 
clear that the unsuitability was mentioned in relation to the previous policy. However, even if 
it was the new policy I think AXA explained the area where cover wasnt provided to allow B 
to make an informed decision about whether to buy it. 
B referred to the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (4.2.5) and said AXA didnt 
take reasonable steps to let B know it was responsible for deciding if the policy was suitable. 
I dont think this section applies due to the nature of Bs policy. But, even if it does, I think 
AXA provided information in a way to enable B to decide if the policy was suitable. 
Following the call, AXA sent B a copy of the policy documents. The documents say that the 
policy is recommended on the basis of the information contained in the Hold Cover 
Summary and the Statement of Fact. B said AXA failed to propose a policy which was 
consistent with its demands and needs. However, I havent seen anything to persuade me of 
that. 
The sales documents also included the policy schedule. The schedule clearly highlights that 
the extension for murder, suicide and disease is amended by an endorsement. The 
amendment also clearly sets out that cover is provided in the event of a specified list of 
diseases. This information was included on the schedule at each renewal. Im satisfied that 
the policy covered a specified list of diseases from the time B bought the policy and AXA did 
enough to highlight this both at the sale and each renewal. I therefore dont hold AXA at fault 
if B thought it was entering into the policy on the basis that it covered any infectious or 
contagious disease and I dont think AXA would be found to be in breach of contract for this. 
Ive considered Bs point that the policy should include cover for SARS, but I dont agree. Its 
for AXA to decide which risks it wants to cover and I think its clear that the policy covers 
those diseases listed. I dont think AXA not covering SARS was particularly significant at the 
time B bought its policy and in any event, AXA clearly set out the diseases that were 
covered. I also dont think that a reasonable person entering into the contract would think 
SARS was covered, as the extension clearly sets out a list of those diseases which are covered. In any event, I dont think this point is relevant to whether Bs claim is successful as 
even if the policy covered SARS, it doesnt cover Covid-19. 
B said if it had known it wasnt covered for unknown diseases it would have bought a 
different policy. However, Im not persuaded by this. At the sale and at each renewal, the 
policy clearly set out the diseases which were covered by the policy. Therefore, B had ample 
opportunity to buy a new policy if the disease cover didnt meet its needs.
Overall, I think AXA provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading and I think it 
took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. I recognise this isnt the outcome 
B was hoping for but, having considered the matter very carefully, Im not persuaded that 
AXA mis-sold the policy. I therefore wont be requiring AXA to compensate B.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman