DRN-3092833
The complaint
Mr B says ReAssure Limited behaved unfairly in relation to surrendering his with-profits 
investment bond. He says it changed the rate of the final bonus, meaning ReAssure has 
paid a surrender value that was less than the value given a previous statement.   
What happened
Mr B held a With Profits Growth Bond, taken out with Legal & General in December 2002, 
which had an initial investment of £40,000. 
In February 2020, Mr B was sent his annual bonus statement for the bond. This set out that 
the bond had a surrender value at that date of £42,158. That figure included a £14,499.54 
projected final bonus.
 
ReAssure took over operation of the bond in September 2020, with a valuation from L&G as 
at August 2020. 
In September 2020, Mr B contacted ReAssure to enquire about surrendering the bond. He 
was sent a letter advising that the surrender value of the bond was now £39,361.54. This 
included a lower final bonus of £12,429.25.  
Mr B complained. ReAssure rejected the complaint in February 2021. It said the surrender 
value of the bond in December 2020 was £39,652.22. This was because Mr B had made two 
£500 withdrawals in September and December 2020 (in later years, he took £500 quarterly 
from the bond). Therefore, the number of units for it to apply the interim and final bonuses to 
was lower. It also reiterated that bonuses were not guaranteed and Mr B was aware of that.  
The bond was surrendered by Mr B in April 2021 for £41,228.66. However, he had made 
many attempts in the intervening months to discuss the surrender value with ReAssure, 
making six calls in the months of October 2020, November 2020 and February 2021. 
Mr B brought his complaint to this service where it was reviewed by an investigator. 
Our investigator did not think ReAssure had acted unfairly in calculating the final surrender 
values of October 2020 and thereafter in April 2021. The final bonus percentage had 
dropped in May 2020 from 3.05% to 2.60% and this affected the calculation. ReAssure 
hadnt acted unreasonably in calculating a final bonus using the lower percentage. And, by 
the time Mr B surrendered the bond, the rate had reverted to 3.05% from March 2021. 
She did, however, note that ReAssure had taken longer than it should have to reply to Mr Bs 
query about the surrender value on three of the six occasions he had called in  notably 
longer than ReAssures target of three to five days. She could see this had caused Mr B 
upset and frustration, and she proposed ReAssure pay him £100 compensation.  
Mr B said he didnt accept the investigators view. He said he felt the compensation for 
ReAssures actions should be higher  he has had to spend time chasing it, and it has failed 
to explain the surrender to him on many occasions, instead lying to him about valuations. 
Though it took longer than three to five days with specific occasions, in effect ReAssure 
misled him for six months and he should be compensated appropriately for that. 
Mr B also said ReAssure wasnt fit for purpose and it has a track record of appalling service. 
He felt that the delays and failure to address his queries cost him financially because he 
would have surrendered the bond earlier had it responded in reasonable time and given a 
complete picture. He would then have been able to take advantage of other market gains.  
Mr B said he wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.  
ReAssure said it wanted to clarify that its service standard for replies regarding queries 
about the bond was ten working days, not the three to five days the investigator had 
suggested. There were two occasions when ReAssure took longer than this to reply, but the 
timescale was explained to Mr B. So, ReAssure didnt think the £100 should be awarded.  
The complaint has now been passed to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything before me, I also think this complaint should be upheld in part. I 
recognise that my conclusions will not be what Mr B has hoped for, but I also take the view 
that compensation of £100 is appropriate in these circumstances. 
I can see that Mr B has been supplied with key features information when he began the 
bond, along with a terms and conditions document and annual statements which also gave 
information about how the bond worked. 
The type of investment Mr B held operated within a with-profits fund where a share of the 
profits are awarded in the form of bonuses. Once bonuses are added, these cannot usually 
be removed. However, the bond was unit-linked (the investment value was used to purchase 
units in the with-profits fund), which meant it could be open to the fluctuations of market 
conditions based on the unit value. 
I recognise that when Mr B queried the position, he set out to ReAssure that the previous 
annual statements had confirmed:
February 2017 - £41,314 including £12,940 terminal bonus
February 2018 - £42,344 including £12,940 terminal bonus
February 2019 - £41,474 including £12,940 terminal bonus
February 2020 - £42,157 including £14,499 terminal bonus
He therefore took the view that as he had made £1,000 of withdrawals to August 2020, the 
transfer to ReAssure should have been £41,157 plus an interim bonus.  
However, on the statements Mr B refers to, he is quoting the values including a final bonus. 
But the bond terms and each of the statements sets out in clear terms that Interim and final 
bonus rates can be changed at any time. 
Mr B contacted ReAssure to say his understanding was that bonuses could not be 
withdrawn. This isnt wrong in principle  but the bonuses he was referring to up to a 
possible surrender date (the interim and final bonuses) were projections. Those bonuses 
had not been confirmed nor added to his  with-profits bond. The correct measure is to look at the fund values, and these do not show a £2,000 discrepancy as Mr B has suggested.
The fund value in the annual statement of February 2020 was £27,169,10. The fund value at 
8 November 2020 (following Mr Bs queries) was £26,568.96. When the £1,000 withdrawal is 
factored in, it is clear that the policy was not incorrectly valued by ReAssure.  
The reason for the lower quoted surrender value was because L&G declared in May 2020 
that it would reduce final bonus rates from 3.05% to 2.60% due to market volatility following 
the coronavirus pandemic outbreak. L&G was able to take a decision about final bonuses; 
though this has meant Mr Bs surrender value projection of February 2020 was no longer the 
same by November 2020, L&G was within its remit to make decisions of that nature. This 
service isnt a regulator  that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. And this 
complaint is about ReAssure. It wasnt responsible for L&Gs decision before the transfer. 
By the time Mr Bs bond was surrendered, ReAssure had increased the percentage on the 
final bonus in March 2021 and restored L&Gs pre-pandemic position. So I cant agree that 
he was financially disadvantaged by the delay in resolving his queries  he actually 
benefitted from the surrender taking place after the final bonus rate was increased.  
Nonetheless, I agree with our investigator that ReAssures correspondence was both 
delayed in some cases and in the first instance, an error led to Mr Bs misunderstanding. In 
the transfer letter to Mr B of September 2020 it misquoted the fund value, wrongly including 
the final and interim bonuses. That naturally perpetuated Mr Bs mistaken belief that the total 
fund value included bonuses when contrastingly these could fluctuate and had no 
guarantees as to the amount. 
Further, the two enquiries in November 2020 and February 2021 made by Mr B took 
ReAssure four weeks (20 working days) and almost three weeks (13 working days) to reply 
to. These timescales exceeded ReAssures stated ten working day response time, and made 
things worse for Mr B in terms of his upset and confusion over the way the policy operated. 
  
Putting things right
Like our investigator, I believe a monetary award ought to be provided to Mr B. To be clear, 
we do not fine or punish businesses. An award between £100 is within the range of values 
this service makes where there has one or several been repeated errors, requiring a 
reasonable effort to sort out. 
ReAssures actions caused Mr B trouble and inconvenience to Mr B and prolonged his 
receipt of the bonds surrender value. Though this didnt cause him financial detriment, it is 
clear from the correspondence how frustrated Mr B was. The impact to him has been more 
than just minimal, and an award is warranted in circumstances where there has been a need 
to make several calls over a number of months to surrender the bond.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited must pay £100 to Mr B for the reasons set out 
above. I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman